(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 238,  19 Ky. 238 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1281 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bank of Kentucky v. Pursley. May 30, 1826. *1 Notary Public. Protest. Seals. Bills of Exchange. Statutes. ERROR TO THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT; BENJ. SHACKELFORD, West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 409 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k408 Protest and Certificate Thereof 56k409 k. Requisites and Sufficiency. Most Cited  Cases Where there is no notary public at the place where a bill is dishonored, it may be protested by any substantial person in the presence of witnesses. Bills and Notes 56 k 409 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k408 Protest and Certificate Thereof 56k409 k. Requisites and Sufficiency. Most Cited  Cases The notarial certificate need not be under seal. Bills and Notes 56 k 410 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k408 Protest and Certificate Thereof 56k410 k. Certificate as Evidence. Most Cited  Cases The notary's certificate as to demand of payment or notice of dishonor is prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated. Bills and Notes 56 k 410 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k408 Protest and Certificate Thereof 56k410 k. Certificate as Evidence. Most Cited  Cases A notary's certificate of a protest is conclusive of the facts recited. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. On the 26th of July, 1819, Sampson Turley executed a promissory note to John Pursley, for one hundred and seventy-five dollars, negotiable and payable, sixty days after date, at the Hopkinsville Branch Bank. Action by the Bank against the endorser of a note discounted. This note was afterwards endorsed by Pursley to B. Greenfield, and by Greenfield endorsed to the President and Directors of the Bank of Kentucky, and by them discounted. Payment was not made according to the stipulations of the note, and this action was brought by the bank, to recover the amount of the note against Pursley as endorser. The trial was had upon the general issue, and verdict and judgment recovered by Pursley. Verdict and judgment for defendant. On the trial, the bank offered in evidence, a protest of the note purporting to have been made on the last day of grace, by Charles G. Warfield, notary public, and drawn up in the usual form, but concluding in the following words, to-wit: Protest certified under the private seal of the notary offered as evidence and rejected. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my private seal, no seal notarial being yet provided. CHARLES G. WARFIELD, N. P." But the reading of the protest in evidence was objected to by Pursley, and the objection sustained by the court. *2 The bank then offered to prove by Warfield, the notary public for the county of Christian, that the note was protested by him, and that when he made the protest, he had no seal of office; but the testimony of Warfield was also objected to and excluded by the court. Notary himself offered as a witness to prove the protest. Whether or not in thus excluding the protest and testimony of Warfield from the jury, the court decided correctly is the only question presented for consideration in the present contest. Question stated. We think the protest ought not to have been excluded. If the annexation of the notarial seal be essential to the validity of a protest, there would certainly be great plausibility, if not conclusive force, in the objection taken to the lack of the notarial seal. For after the note was discounted by the bank, it assumed the dignity of a foreign bill of exchange, and according to the well established doctrine of the law-merchant, the holder of the note could have no recourse against the endorser, without a regular protest for non-payment; and of course, whatever is essential to the validity of the protest, must be made appear in evidence to the jury. But in our researches upon the subject, we have been unable to find any authority going to make the annexation of the notarial seal material to the validity of the protest. Seal is not necessary to a Notary Public's protest of a bill of exchange. The most natural inference to be drawn from what is said by Chitty in his treatise upon bills, is, that without the aid of a seal the protest of a notary public is sufficient. "Whenever," says he, "notice of a non-acceptance, or non-payment of a foreign bill is necessary, a protest must also be made, which though mere matter of form, is by the custom of merchants indispensably necessary, and can not be supplied by witnesses or oath of the party, or any other way, and as it is said, is part of the constitution of a foreign bill of exchange, and the mere production of this protest, attested by the notary public, will be evidence of the dishonor of the bill." Chitty on Bills, 169. Protest, says Chitty, must be attested by the Notary, but nothing is said of his seal. Now although it is not explicitly said, that the protest needs not the notarial seal, it would certainly be not a little surprising, that as accurate a writer and profound lawyer as Chitty undoubtedly is, should have passed over in silence the circumstance of sealing, and mention the attestation by the notary as the only thing necessary to make the protest evidence, if the annexation of the notarial seal be necessary to the validity of the protest. Again, in another part of his treatise, he has given the form of a protest for non-payment, and in that ??e has omitted to suggest the slightest intimation as to ?? necessity of a seal. But what is still more conclusive, to prove that a protest will be good though not sealed, it is said, "if there be no notary public at the place where the bill is dishonored, it may be protested by any substantial person of that place in the presence of two or more witnesses, (Chitty on Bills, 159), and of course, to such a protest there can be no official seal; and why, it may be asked, should the annexation of a seal be necessary to give effect to a protest when made by a notary public, if without a seal the protest would be valid if made by a private individual? *3 If there be no Notary, the bill may be protested by any substantial person in the presence of witnesses--Here no seal is required. But admitting the protest to be good without a seal, it may possibly by some be thought, that unless authenticated by the notarial seal, the protest is in itself incompetent to prove the fact it imports. It would seem however, from the remarks of Chitty, to which we have already adverted, that he must have understood the doctrine of the law merchant to be otherwise; but whether or not in that respect he is mistaken; it is not necessary for us now to express an opinion. Query--Whether by the law merchant, the official seal was necessary to make the Notary's certificate of the protest of evidence. For be the doctrine of the ancient law merchant upon that subject what it may, we apprehend, that under the act of the legislature of this country creating the office of notary public, the protest of a notary forms in itself evidence of the fact it imports, without the aid of the notarial seal. The act of this country expressly declares, that due credence shall be given to the protestations and attestations of notaries; and how is it possible for that credence to be given, and at the same time deny the protest of the notary to be competent to prove that he made the protest? Statute of Ky. makes the protestations and attestations of Notaries evidence without the official seal. But were we even mistaken in supposing, that since the act of this country the protest of a notary is in itself evidence, it would not thence follow, that to make it evidence, the annexation of the notarial seal is indispensably necessary. The protest, if authenticated by the seal of office, might then be evidence without the aid of other proof; but it would be evidence, not because the seal incorporates itself with and forms a part of the protest, but because the seal, per se, would prove the protest to have been made by a notary public Without the aid of the official seal, however, the protest would be valid, and though not in itself evidence, might be made evidence by proof aliunde. All that would be necessary to make it evidence, would be proof of the fact of its having been made by a notary public, and that fact might be proved by parol testimony. Were we, therefore, mistaken in the opinion, that though not authenticated with the notarial seal, the protest should not have been excluded from going in evidence to the jury, the court evidently erred in not admitting the testimony of the notary to prove that the protest was in fact made by him, unless we are also mistaken in supposing that the annexation of the notarial seal is not essential to the validity of the protest. Parol evidence is competent to prove that a protest of a bill in this State, certified under the private seal of a Notary, was in fact made, and by a Notary. Whether or not the protest, if it had been made in a foreign country, would have been admissible evidence without being authenticated by the notarial seal, is a question that does not arise in the present case, and is one upon which we would not be understood as giving any opinion. *4 Query--Whether such would be the law of a foreign protest. The protest in this case, was made in this country, by an officer deriving his authority under the act of the legislature of this state, and as such, should have been admitted as evidence without being authenticated by the seal of office, or proved by extraneous testimony. Protests made out of the country might perhaps require the aid of other evidence, but of that it will be proper further to consider when such a question becomes necessary to the right in contest. Notary's certificate of a protest in this State is sufficient without a seal, or the aid of extraneous evidence. In excluding the protest of the notary from going in evidence to the jury, therefore, the court erred, and consequently, the judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Judgment and mandate. Crittenden, for plaintiffs; Mayes, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Bank of Kentucky v. Pursley 3 T.B.Mon. 238, 19 Ky. 238, 1826 WL 1281 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
