(Cite as: Litt.Sel.Cas. 142,  16 Ky. 142 (Ky.),  1812 WL 663 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mudd v. Beauchamp. May 29, 1812. *1 FROM THE WASHINGTON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 348(2) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k346 Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of Other  States 157k348 Requisites of Exemplification or  Certificate 157k348(2) k. Judicial Acts, Records, and  Proceedings. Most Cited Cases It is not necessary that the president or presiding judge certifying to the transcript of a record from a sister state should give himself such title in his certificate, since, if the record shows he was so, it is sufficient. Evidence 157 k 348(2) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k346 Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of Other  States 157k348 Requisites of Exemplification or  Certificate 157k348(2) k. Judicial Acts, Records, and  Proceedings. Most Cited Cases It is not a valid objection to the admissibility of a transcript of a record from a sister state that the clerk's certificate does not state the record to be full or complete, or that the presiding judge does not give himself that title in his certificate, if the record appears to be complete, and shows that he was the presiding judge. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Mudd prosecuted this action against Beauchamp in the Washington circuit court, upon a record from the state of Maryland. Beauchamp pleaded nul tiel record, upon which plea issue was joined, and judgment awarded against Mudd; to reverse which Mudd prosecutes this writ of error. The record offered in evidence by Mudd in support of the issue, contains the history of a cause, from its commencement to its end, prosecuted by him against Beauchamp, before John Marshall Gault, Chief Justice, and Daniel Jeniper, &c. associate Judges of Charles county court in the state of Maryland, together with the attestation of the clerk of said court, certifying that it is truly copied from the record of the proceedings of Charles county; to which is annexed the seal of the court, and the certificate of said John Marshall Gault, Chief Justice, certifying that the certificate of the clerk is in due form of law. In certifying a transcript of a record from a sister state, it is not necessary that the clerk, in his certificate, should state that it is full or complete; if it appears, on examination, to contain the whole history of the suit, from its commencement to its termination, it is sufficient. The only question necessary to be decided in this case is, whether the record is properly authenticated. By an act of Congress, entitled "an act to prescribe the mode in which the public acts, records and judicial proceedings in each state, shall be authenticated, so as to take effect in every other state," it is provided that the records and judicial proceedings of the courts of any state, shall be proved or admitted in any other court within the United States, by the attestation of the clerk, and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal, together with the certificate of the Judge, Chief Justice, or presiding Magistrate, as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due form. We think the authentication of the record complies with every requisition of this act. It contains the testimonial of the clerk, the seal of the court and the certificate of the chief justice, or judge of the court, that the attestation is in due form of law. The law does not require as was contended in argument, that the judge should certify that he is the presiding judge of the court; nor does it require that the clerk should certify that the transcript is a full transcript of the whole proceedings. His certificate that the transcript is truly copied from the record of the proceedings of the court, and it appearing to be a complete record of the proceedings of the suit, from the commencement to the termination thereof, surely is all the law requires. The court of Washington circuit, therefore, erred in giving judgment on the plea of nul tiel record against Mudd. It is, therefore, considered by the court, that the judgment of the Washington circuit court is erroneous, and must be reversed with costs; that this suit be remanded to that court, that judgment be entered on the issue joined in favor of Mudd, &c. *2 It is not necessary that the president or presiding judge should give himself such title in his certificate; if the record shows he was so, it is sufficient. Ky.App. 1812. Mudd v. Beauchamp Litt.Sel.Cas. 142, 16 Ky. 142, 1812 WL 663 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
