(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 13,  19 Ky. 13 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1177 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Tribble v. Frame. Nov. 11, 1825. *1 Occupants. Right of Entry. Pleading. ERROR TO THE CLARKE CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Trespass 386 k 41 386 Trespass 386II Actions 386II(B) Proceedings in General 386k41 k. Plea or Answer. Most Cited  Cases A plea of liberum tenementum is not good to a declaration for breaking the plaintiff's close and beating him, his servants and horses. Ejectment 142 k 120(1) 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k118 Execution and Enforcement of Judgment 142k120 Writ of Possession 142k120(1) k. Right to Writ in General. Most Cited  Cases A successful claimant, after judgment in ejectment, may enter, though the case be within the occupant laws, and though proceedings be instituted and undetermined to recover for the improvements, and an habere facias could not issue. Ejectment 142 k 122 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k122 k. Restitution. Most Cited Cases Where the return of an habere facias is quashed, and a writ of restitution awarded, on a motion to quash this writ at a subsequent term, the decisions cannot be questioned. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement. This was an action of trespass, brought by Frame, to recover of the Tribbles, for entering his close, treading down his grass, beating his horses, beating his servants, and assaulting and beating him, &c. To a replication put in by Frame, to a special plea of the Tribbles, a demurrer was filed by them, and the demurrer being joined by Frame, judgment was rendered by the court overruling the demurrer. Judgment on special plea. The Tribbles then applied to the court, and obtained leave to plead the general issue, and the cause was tried upon that issue, and verdict and judgment recovered by Frame. General issue with leave pleaded. To reverse that judgment, the Tribbles have prosecuted this writ of error. The present contest grew out of the same transaction for which an action of assault and battery was brought by Samuel Tribble against Frame, and finally decided by this court in the spring term, 1824. Without giving a particular statement of the case, we would, therefore, refer to the report of that case as containing a correct history of the facts of this. From that case it will appear that the entry which Tribble made upon the land, and for which this action is brought, was made by Tribble after judgment had been rendered against Frame, for the land, in an action of ejectment brought against him by J. Speed Smith, and after Smith, by a regular deed, had conveyed the land to Tribble. Facts in evidence to the jury. Upon the facts of the case, the court below in structed the jury, that the defendants had no right to enter on the land whereon the trespass is alleged to have been committed, until the plaintiff had been fully paid and satisfied for all the improvements upon the land, according to the law concerning occupying claimants. *2 Instructions and exceptions. In the case to which we have referred, it became necessary for this court to investigate the principle involved in this instruction, and it was then decided that, upon common law principles, Tribble had a perfect right to enter upon the land, and that the occupying claimant law contains no provision incompatible with the exercises of that right. See 5 Littell's R. 187. Successful claimant after judgment in ejectment may enter, though the case be within the occupant laws, and tho' proceedings be instituted and undetermined to the recoverer for the improvements. According to that case, therefore, the court erred in the instruction to the jury. With respect to the opinion of that court in overruling the Tribbles' demurrer to the replication of Frame, it is sufficient to remark that the plea of the Tribbles, to which that replication applies, in our opinion, contains no sufficient bar to the action. That plea purports to answer the whole cause of action, and evidently contains nothing which in legal contemplation goes to justify the injury alleged to have been committed upon the person of Frame and his servants, and the injury done to his personal property. The plea contains every allegation necessary to shew that, as the proprietors of the freehold, the defendants had the right to enter upon the land; but the right of entry per se confers no authority upon the person having the right, to commit violence, in making the entry, upon the person of the possessor, or his personal estate. The demurrer was therefore correctly overruled. Plea of libernum tenementis, and no more to a declaration for breaking plaintiff's close, and beating him, his servants and horses is ill, these allegations must be answered. The judgment must, however, for the error in the instructions to the jury be reversed, with costs, the cause be remanded to the court below, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1825. Tribble v. Frame 3 T.B.Mon. 13, 19 Ky. 13, 1825 WL 1177 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
