(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 234,  8 Ky. 234 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1328 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Henry Lee, v. Edward M'Daniel, Jun. 9, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM THE JUDGMENT OF THE MASON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Landlord and Tenant 233 k 639 233 Landlord and Tenant 233III Landlord's Title and Reversion 233III(A) Rights and Powers of Landlord 233k638 Possession of Tenant as Possession of  Landlord 233k639 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k56(1)) A landlord, settling a tenant on his patent with the intent to take possession, and not restricting the tenant by certain bounds, is possessed to the extent of his patent. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Logan. This is an appeal from a judgment rendered against Lee, in a traverse taken by him to an inquest had in a proceeding for a forcible detainer. Lee was plaintiff in the warrant which issued from the justice; and as the forcible entry complained of by him, can only have been committed by M'Daniel by entering upon Lee's possession, the only question which can have occurred in the court below, and which should now be considered by this court, involves an enquiry into the fact of Lee's possession when M'Daniel entered upon the land. That Lee was so possessed, we are of opinion the evidence clearly and satisfactorily proves. For he is not only shewn to have a title for the land, but he appears to have entered upon it with an intention of taking the possession, and although he is not proven to have himself resided upon the land, he is proven to have settled, within the boundary of his patent, two tenants, both of whom, at the time M'Daniel took the possession, and for a long time previous thereto, resided upon Lee's claim. A landlord settling a tenant on his patent, with an intent to gain possession, (giving his tenant no bounds) is ipso facto in possession to the limits of his patent. The settlement of M'Daniel, it is true, is not shewn to be included within the improvement of either of those tenants; but as the tenants are not proven to have leased any precise and definite boundary, the circumstance of their having taken possession under Lee, when taken in connection with the other evidence in the cause, conducing to shew the entry of Lee, with an intention to become possessed, the possession so gained should be construed to extend to the boundary of Lee's patent. The possession of Lee thus proven, we are of opinion, can not be repelled, by reason of any evidence introduced by M'Daniel for the purpose of shewing a constructive possession in Marshall, under whom he entered upon the land. Marshall, it is true, holds a patent, of older date than that of Lee's; and although it appears to include the land in contest, as well as the claim of a certain Conway, who seems also to have been living upon the land, as he swore on the trial, under a contract with the agent of Marshall; yet as Conway gained his possession under a purchase of 250 acres from Grant, and as the contract with Marshall appears to have been intended to protect that possession only, Marshall ought not, in the absence of all other evidence, to be construed to have gained under that contract any possession beyond the possession of Conway; and consequently, as Conway's 250 acres, purchased from Grant, is not shewn to include any part of Lee's claim, Marshall can not through Conway, be supposed to have been possessed of the land now in contest, when M'Daniel entered. M'Daniel, therefore, as he was proven to have entered upon the possession in fact of Lee, and as that entry was without the assent of Lee, in contemplation of law, he was guilty of a forcible entry, and, consequently, the jury improperly, on the trial of the traverse, found against Lee; and the court also erred in not awarding a new trial. *2 A patentee extending shelter to an occupant, whose possession is metedand bounded, acquires possession only to the limits of the occupants claim;--Vide post, Waugh v. Barber and Murray. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and a new trial had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Bibb and Hardin for appellant, Pope for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Lee v. McDaniel 1 A.K.Marsh. 234, 8 Ky. 234, 1818 WL 1328 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
