(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 348,  8 Ky. 348 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1399 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Francis Patterson v. Job Martin. Oct. 17, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE WARREN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 58(1) 231 Justices of the Peace 231III Civil Jurisdiction and Authority 231k58 Jurisdiction to Be Shown by Record 231k58(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where a declaration is not filed, the evidence must show a demand within a justice's jurisdiction. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment rendered by the circuit court, in favor of Martin, upon an appeal by Patterson from the judgment of a magistrate. The only points involved in the case, grow out of Patterson's exceptions taken to the opinion of the court, in overruling his motion for a new trial. On an appeal from a judgment of a justice, no declaration is necessary, except where the demand was not originally cognizable before the magistrate. Where indebitatus assumpsit could be maintained at common law, the demand is of a nature to give jurisdiction to the justice. The motion appears to have been made exclusively upon the ground of the verdict being against evidence. As Martin, the plaintiff in the warrant, filed no declaration in the circuit court, he most clearly can not have been entitled to a judgment, unless he proved a demand properly cognizable before a magistrate; but as his evidence conduced to prove a demand, for which, according to the principles of the common law, an action of indebitatus assumpsit might have been maintained, there is no doubt but that, under the statutes of this country, it is cognizable before a magistrate. And with respect to the evidence, introduced upon the trial, no reason is perceived for differing with the court below. It is certainly of a character from which the jury might fairly infer the facts found by them, and having done so, that court properly refused to interpose. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Ky.App. 1818. Patterson v. Martin 1 A.K.Marsh. 348, 8 Ky. 348, 1818 WL 1399 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
