(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 52,  22 Ky. 52 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1629 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thomas and Wife v. Tanner. Oct. 22, 1827. *1 Error. Practice. Evidence. National Law. Authentication. Executors. Sheriff's Sales. Bona Notabilia. Jurisdiction. Exceptions. APPEAL FROM THE LIVINGSTON CIRCUIT; B. SHACKLEFORD, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 69 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k69 k. Death of debtor before issue of writ. Most Cited Cases An execution issued on a judgment after the death of defendant is void. Executors and Administrators 162 k 12 162 Executors and Administrators 162II Appointment, Qualification, and Tenure 162k8 Jurisdiction of Courts 162k12 k. Situs of assets. Most Cited  Cases The county court of the county where judgment had been recovered by the deceased has jurisdiction to grant letters testamentary or of administration. Executors and Administrators 162 k 43 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k43 k. Personal property in general. Most Cited  Cases Under the act of 1800, declaring that slaves devised shall be deemed real estate, and pass under the same regulations as landed property, slaves are not assets in the hands of the personal representative, but pass, without his assent, to the devisees. Executors and Administrators 162 k 445 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k445 k. Profert and oyer of letters. Most Cited  Cases In detinue by an administrator on a count upon the possession of the intestate, and the trial of the general issue, the plaintiff's letters of administration need not be read in evidence. Executors and Administrators 162 k 454 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k454 k. Execution and enforcement of judgment. Most Cited Cases Property of the estate cannot be taken under an execution against the executor de bonis propriis. Executors and Administrators 162 k 524(3) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XII Foreign and Ancillary Administration 162k524 Actions by Foreign Executors or Administrators 162k524(3) k. Proceedings. Most Cited Cases It is too late, after the jury is sworn, to move to dismiss the suit of a nonresident executor because he had not filed his letter testamentary. Pleading 302 k 258(3) 302 Pleading 302VI Amended and Supplemental Pleadings and Repleader 302k255 Amendment of Plea or Answer 302k258 Condition of Cause and Time for  Amendment 302k258(3) k. During trial in general. Most Cited  Cases No additional plea can be filed after the jury is sworn. Wills 409 k 258 409 Wills 409V Probate or Contest of Will 409V(F) Venue 409k258 k. In general. Most Cited Cases The county court of the county where judgments have been recovered by the deceased have jurisdiction to hear his will proved. Appeal and Error 30 k 690(4) 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(M) Questions Presented for Review 30k689 Admissibility of Evidence 30k690 In  General 30k690(4) k. Necessity of setting forth evidence  in general. Most Cited Cases An exception to the admission of evidence cannot be considered, unless the record shows that the evidence was in fact admitted. Appeal and Error 30 k 1067 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(J) Harmless Error 30XVI(J)18 Instructions 30k1067 k. Failure or refusal to charge. Most Cited  Cases The refusal to give a proper instruction which would have availed the party nothing, the justice of the case not being affected thereby, does not afford sufficient ground for the reversal of a judgment. Descent and Distribution 124 k 5 124 Descent and Distribution 124I Nature and Course in General 124k2 What Law Governs 124k5 k. Personal property. Most Cited Cases The succession to an intestate's personal property is governed by the law of his actual domicile at the time of his decease. Detinue 126 k 24 126 Detinue 126k20 Trial 126k24 k. Verdict and findings. Most Cited Cases A verdict in detinue for a part of the things demanded is good for the plaintiff, as to those found for him, and for the defendant, as to the remainder. Detinue 126 k 25 126 Detinue 126k25 k. Judgment. Most Cited Cases In detinue for several articles, judgment should be rendered for the separate value of each. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 503 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIII Dismissal 307AIII(A) Voluntary Dismissal 307Ak503 k. Dismissal of part of cause of action. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 128k3  Dismissal and Nonsuit) The plaintiff may enter a nolle prosequi as to one count, or any part of his action. Evidence 157 k 348(2) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k346 Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of Other  States 157k348 Requisites of Exemplification or  Certificate 157k348(2) k. Judicial acts, records, and  proceedings. Most Cited Cases Transcripts of the records of the court of probate of wills and testaments of the Missouri territory, certified since the establishment of the state by the officers of the county court, where the record purports to be kept, are competent evidence without proof of the laws of the state. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. *2 This was an action of detinue, for sundry slaves, brought by Tanner against Thomas and wife, in the circuit court. The declaration, as originally drawn, contains two counts, in each of which, Tanner claims the slaves as administrator of John Tanner deceased, under a grant of administration to him, with the will annexed, by the county court of Cape Girardeau, in the state of Missouri, in 1821, and in the first count, he declares upon the possession of the testator, John Tanner, but in the second count he declares upon his own possession as administrator, &c. Declaration by Tanner, on the possession of his testator, and on his own former possession. Non detinet was pleaded by Thomas and wife, and the trial was had in the circuit court on an issue taken to that plea. Plea, non detinet and issue. The jury found for Tanner, the slaves, Simon of the value of $450, Bet, of the value of $600, Kate, of the value of $350, and Amy of the value of $350, being part of those mentioned in the declaration, and assessed his damages for the detention of them, to $320; but the jury failed to find as to the other slaves named in the declaration. Verdict for plaintiff. The court rendered judgment in favor of Tanner, for the slaves, Simon, Bet, Kate and Amy, if to be had, and if not to be had, for seventeen hundred and fifty dollars, their value, and also for three hundred and twenty dollars, the damages assessed by the jury, together with his cost. Judgment. From that judgment, Thomas and wife appealed. Various opinions were given by the court, on points of law, made in the course of trial; to each of which, exceptions were taken, and each will be noticed in the order they occur in the record. A certified transcript of the will of John Tanner deceased, with the probate thereof, taken in July, 1812, by the judge of probates, for the then district of Cape Girardeau, and territory of Louisiana, together with the letters of administration, with the will annexed afterwards, in 1821, granted by the county court, for the county of Cape Girardeau, state of Missouri, taken from the records in the office of that county court, was offered in evidence to the jury by Tanner, objected to by Thomas and wife, the objections overruled by the court, and the transcript admitted to be used as evidence. After this decision by the court, and before the transcript was read to the jury, Thomas and wife moved the court to dismiss the cause because Tanner had not filed an authenticated copy of the order, granting letters of administration; but before the court decided upon the motion, Tanner entered a nole prosequi to the second count of the declaration. Thomas and wife then asked for leave to file an additional plea, but the court refused to permit them to do so. Decision of the court overruling objections to evidence can not be assigned for error, unless it appear the evidence was in fact given to the jury. It will be perceived at the first glance, that it is altogether unnecessary for us to go into the inquiry, whether or not the court was correct in deciding the transcript from the records of the county court in Missouri to be admissible evidence; for it appears from the record, not to have been read to the jury, and if not used as evidence, Thomas and wife can have sustained no possible injury by the decision, even were it admitted to be erroneous. *3 Lest it should, however, be supposed, that we entertain the opinion that the court erred in its decision, we have thought proper to remark that no solid objection to the transcript being used as evidence is discerned. The authentication is in due and apt form, and lacks no essential ingredient to authorize copies from the records of the courts of other states to be used as evidence. The only possible objection, which could, with any plausibility be taken to it by the most ingenious counsel, consists in the failure of Tanner to prove, that by the laws of Missouri, the records of the former territorial judge of probates, for the district of Cape Girardeau, were, on the change of government, transferred to the clerk of the county court, and that the clerk of that court was authorized to keep them. It may be said, that the courts of this country can not take judicial notice of the laws of other states, and as the authority to keep and give out copies of records, must be derived from the laws of the state where the record is, it may be argued that without evidence going to prove, that by the laws of Missouri, the person by whom the copy is attested, had authority to keep the record, of which it purports to be a transcript, and to make out copies, the court should not have permitted it to be used as evidence. But the fallacy of the argument is at once perceived, when we advert to the consequences to which it would inevitably lead. The same argument that goes to show the necessity of proving an authority by law to keep records, would also show the necessity of proving that the court of another state, by whom a judgment is rendered, was authorized by the laws of that state, to give such a judgment, so that if the argument be sound, instead of admitting as evidence, copies from the records of the courts of other states, when authenticated according to the laws of the United States, we should in every case where such a copy is offered in evidence, have to require of the party before it is used, the almost impossible task, of not only producing every provision of the laws of the state from whence the copy is brought, that may be necessary to prove the authority of the keeper of the record, but also such as may be necessary to show the authority of the court, before whom, the proceedings designed to be proved by the record were had. An argument leading to such consequences, can not be sustained by this court. Transcript of the records of the court of probate of wills and testaments of the Missouri Territory, certified since the establishment of the state (according to the act of Congress), by the officers of the county court where the record purports to be kept, is competent evidence, without proof of the laws of the state. With respect to the application of Thomas and wife, to dismiss the cause, because a copy of the order granting letters of administration to Tanner, was not filed, nothing need be said, after the remarks which have been already made. A regularly authenticated copy had been presented to the court as evidence, and whether filed or not, Thomas and wife had as full opportunity afforded them to inspect it, as if actually filed with the clerk. Besides the jury had been sworn before the application was made to the court, and we apprehend, it was then too late for Thomas and wife to avail themselves of the provisions of the act of the legislature, which requires non-resident executors and administrators, to file their letters testamentary, or letters of administration, with the clerk of the court in which suit is brought by them. *4 It is too late after the jury is sworn, to move to dismiss the suit of a non resident executor, because he had not filed his letter testamentary. The same remark, as to the time, applies with equal force to the refusal of the court, to allow Thomas and wife to file an additional plea. Their application to do so, was made after the jury were sworn, and the trial was progressing, and of course, at a time when the court possessed no power to admit additional pleas. No additional plea can be filed after the jury is sworn. The nolle prosequi, which was entered by Tanner to his second count, is a matter of which Thomas and wife have no right to complain. The law gave Tanner that privilege; and it is one, that by no possibility could be used to the prejudice of Thomas and wife, unless we suppose it a prejudice to them, for Tanner to discontinue his cause as to part of the slaves claimed of them in his declaration. Plaintiff may enter a nohe prosequi as to one count, or any part of his action. Tanner also offered as evidence a copy of a law purporting to have been enacted in 1807, by the then Secretary of Louisiana, who, at the time, was exercising the government thereof, and the judges of the territory, certified by the secretary of the now state of Missouri, to be a true copy from the original, remaining on file in his office, together with the great seal of the state of Missouri thereto attached, to the reading of which as evidence to the jury, Thomas and wife objected, but their objection was overruled and the copy read. Laws of the Territory of Missouri, not inconsistent with the new government?? were not changed by the establishment of the state. In the revolutions of governments by violence or otherwise, the laws of persons and things not inconsistent with the new constitution, remain as before, till altered by the new public authority. In argument, no objection was pointed out, to the mode in which the copy is authenticated, and we have been unable to discover any to exist. But, admitting the authentication to be unexceptionable, and admitting the copy to be admissible to prove what the law of the territory was, it was contended that by the change of the territorial to a state government, the law of the territory ceased to have any operation, unless re-enacted, or expressly adopted by the state, and as it does not appear that the state has ever acted upon the subject, it was insisted that the law of the territory can have no influence upon the rights derived by Tanner, under his grant of administration from the county court of Missouri, and that the copy ought, therefore, to have been excluded from the jury. The argument can not, however, to its full extent, be admitted correct. It is admitted that by the change of government, some of the laws of the territory, must necessarily, have ceased to have any operation. Of that description are such as were adapted to the territorial form of government, and which are incompatible with the government as organized by the state. But it is equally clear, that there are other laws of the territory, which would not, by the mere act of change in the government, cease to be law, and have no operation until re-enacted by the state. Among this latter class are those laws which are not incompatible with the new government, and which, at the time of the change of government, defined, regulated and controlled the rights of persons and things. Laws of this description, are by all civilized nations admitted to survive the total overthrow of government by violence and conquest, and until changed by the victor, are regarded as the rules of right and property between man and man. This rule of general law was admitted in argument, but its application to a government, organized by compact, as was that of the state of Missouri, was contested. But if, in its application to a government formed by force, the rule be a reasonable one, the reason derives additional strength when applied to a government formed by compact. It is from a respectful regard for the rights, int??rests and feelings of the community that the rule has obtained in governments of the former sort, and we are admonished by the same high regard for those rights, interests and feelings, not to apply a different rule to governments formed by compact. The will of the parties to the compact forms their only limit in making a government, and if so disposed, all existing laws might by them be swept away; but their intention to do so, is not to be presumed, from the mere act of forming a government, and until they actually do so, those general laws to which we have adverted, must be understood to retain their vitality and force. Hence, we conclude that the territorial law remained in force, notwithstanding the change of government, and that the court was correct in admitting the copy as evidence. *5 The next question in order, involves the correctness of a decision given by the court in excluding the record of several judgments and decrees, together with the executions, &c., which issued thereon, from being used as evidence before the jury. Those judgments, &c., were offered as evidence by Thomas and wife, for the purpose of proving that since the death of John Tanner, part of the slaves named in the declaration, have been sold under the authority of law; but upon looking into those judgments, &c., and the executions, under which the slaves appear to have been sold, it is perfectly clear, that the right of Tanner as administrator, can not have been in the slightest degree affected by the sales. All the executions issued upon judgments or decrees, rendered since the death of John Tanner, and neither of the executions purport to have been issued against the estate of the testator in the hands of Tanner to be administered. Sales under executions issued after the defendant's death, pass nothing. One of the executions under which a sale of one of the slaves was made, it is true, purports to have issued against Tanner, the present appellee, but it issued not against the estate of the testator in his hands to be administered, but against his estate in his personal right, and the doctrine is well settled that under such an execution the estate of the testator in his hands to be administered, could not be taken and sold. The objection to those records, &c., was therefore correctly sustained. Sale of a slave of the testator, under an execution against the executor de bonis propriis, does not pass the title. Thomas and wife next offered to read as evidence the records of two suits which were brought by the testator in his lifetime, and judgments therein recovered by him in the circuit court of Caldwell, but which were not satisfied until after his death, and also offered to read the copy of another will of the testator, taken from the records of the county court of Caldwell, together with the copy of an order of that court admitting the will to record, but without producing any record evidence to show that any person either as executor or administrator, had taken upon themselves the execution of the will by qualifying in that court. To the admission of the records of the suits brought by the testator or the copy of the will as evidence, Tanner objected, and his objection was sustained by the court. Evidence of another will of Tanner, recorded in Caldwell, offered and rejected. The object intended to be attained by introducing the records of those suits which had been prosecuted by the testator, was to show that in taking probate of the will, and admitting it to record, the county court of Caldwell acted within the pale of its jurisdiction, and the evidence was no doubt competent for that purpose; but when the jurisdiction of the county court is conceded, it is not perceived how the will therein recorded, can effect the right of Tanner under his grant of administration by the court county of Missouri to recover the slaves. *6 County court of the county where judgments had been recovered by the deceased, have jurisdiction to hear his will proved, and grant letters testamentary or administration. Were the right of Tanner, as administrator, to recover the slaves to be governed by the laws of this country exclusively, the will, a copy of which from the records of the county court of Caldwell, was offered in evidence, would no doubt have a conclusive operation against him. For by the act of the Legislature of this country, which passed in 1800, slaves are directed to pass by last wills and testaments as lands, so that as respects slaves devised by last wills and testaments, an executor or administrator with the will annexed, since the passage of that act, has no more right of suit than they have for lands; and from the copy of the will which was offered in evidence, all the slaves of the testator appears to have been actually devised. Executors have no more right in Kentucky, since the act of 1800, to maintain an action to recover slaves devised by the testator to others, than to recover land. But the act of this country can not, we apprehend, have any influence upon the right of the slaves devised by that will. The proof is conclusive that at the date of the will as well as at the death of the testator, he not only resided in the then territory of Louisiana, but that all of his slaves were then in that territory. The right to the slaves which passed by the will, must therefore be governed by the then Territorial law, and not by the act of the Legislature of this State. So inflexible indeed is the rule with respect to personal property, that though not in the country where the testator died, the right to it is always regulated by the laws of the country where he lived. Tested by the territorial law, the rejected copy of the will can have no possible influence upon the question of right. By that law slaves are personal estate, and though devised, the legal right vests in the executor or administrator with the will annexed, precisely as they would have done by the laws of this country, had the act of 1800 to which reference has been made never passed. In rejecting the records and copy of the will, therefore the court can not have erred. Personal property, wherever situated at the death of the owner, passes according to the laws of the country of his last residence. What effect would have been produced upon the right of Tanner if administration had been proved to have been granted by the county court of Caldwell, with the will annexed, to any other person, is a question that we are not called upon by the proof in the cause to decide, and we shall therefore forbear expressing any opinion upon it. The only question that grows out of the offer of Thomas and wife to read the records and copy of the will is the one we have already noticed. Query, of the effect of granting an administration in this state, on the right of a foreign administrator. After all the evidence on the part of Tanner was through, the court was moved by Thomas and wife to instruct the jury to find as in case of a nonsuit; but the court overruled the motion and refused the instruction, and we think correctly. The evidence not only conduced to prove everything necessary to establish Tanner's right to recover, but it is of a character that could not be resisted by a jury disposed to find according to the law of the case and the evidence. It is true, that in the bill of exceptions which was taken to the refusal of the court to instruct the jury, it does not appear that the letters of administration which was granted to Tanner in the State of Missouri were used in evidence; nor are we of opinion that upon the issue joined it was necessary for Tanner, to give them in evidence. As in the second count of his declaration, Tanner declared upon his own possession as administrator, it would no doubt on the trial of the general issue to that count have been necessary to enable him to recover thereon, (as he is not proved to have ever had possession) to have produced the letters of administration granted to him; but we have seen that he had, before the motion for instructions was asked for, entered a nolle prosequi to that count, so that the trial was confined exclusively to the issue on the first count, in which Tanner declared upon the possession of his testator, and the law is well settled, that on the trial of the general issue to such a count, proof that the plaintiff is executor or administrator is not necessary.  Floyd against Breckenridge, 4 Bibb, 14. Henderson's administrator v. Clark, 4 Bibb, 391. *7 In detinue by an administrator, on a count upon the possession of the intestate, and the trial of the general issue, the plaintiff's letters of administration need not be read in evidence. To recover on a count on the possession of the administrator, proof of his having been possessed, is indispensable. After the jury had found their verdict, Thomas and wife moved the court for a new trial on several grounds; but their motion was likewise overruled, and all the evidence introduced by both parties on the trial spread upon the record by bill of exceptions. Motion for new trial overruled. Though several grounds were relied on by Thomas and wife, for a new trial, there is but one question of law besides those already noticed, worthy of any consideration in examining the correctness of the decision upon the application to set aside the verdict. The question is this: The court appears in the progress of the trial to have refused to instruct the jury, on the application of Thomas and wife, that to enable Tanner to recover he must show title to the slaves in contest in the testator, and possession in the defendant; and the question is, should a new trial be awarded because of that refusal to instruct the jury? If there had been an exception to that refusal of the court to instruct the jury, we should have had great difficulty in getting over a reversal of the cause. It was undoubtedly necessary for Tanner not only to prove that the slaves of right belonged to his testator, but also to authorize a recovery by him, it was incumbent on him to prove possession in the defendants in that court. It was not however necessary that he should prove possession in the defendant at the time of trial, and from the wording of the instructions which were refused by the court, we are left in some doubt whether or not it was designed to tie Tanner down to proof of possession in Thomas and wife at the time of trial. But be that as it may, we are not of opinion that the refusal to give instructions imposed upon the court the imperative duty to grant a new trial. Diversit?? on error between the effect of exceptions taken on the trial, and exceptions to decisions against a motion for a new trial moved for errors on the trial. Applications for new trials are addressed to the sound legal discretion of the court, and should be disposed of not so much by strict and technical rules, as a due and proper regard to merits and justice of the case. Hence it is, that new trials have in some cases been refused, and verdicts which were in accordance to the justice of the case, permitted to stand, though errors were committed by the court, in giving positive instructions to the jury. A verdict should not be set aside and a new trial granted, because the court refused instructions which might properly have been given, where the verdict is in conformity to the law and evidence upon the whole case. But the present case is not so strong an one. Here there was barely a refusal to instruct, by the court. Here there was no active interference by the court, and the jury were left at liberty to follow the convictions of their own minds, upon the law and facts of the case. Here both right in the testator and possession in the defendants, were fully and clearly proved; and after verdict in support of that right, we can not say the court below erred in not setting it aside, merely on the ground of a failure to tell the jury that they must find for the defendant, unless the plaintiff proved what he had fully proven. *8 The other points made on the motion for a new trial, need no remarks from us. Except such as involve facts only, that are clearly against Thomas and wife, and the facts were with the jury to weigh and decide, and we can not say they were decided erroneously by them. There remains to be noticed two other questions, one of which relates to the verdict of the jury, and the other to the judgment of the court thereon. The first count to which the issue was tried, claims eight slaves, and the verdict is objected to because it makes no mention of any but the four found for Thomas. The answer to this objection is found in the forty-second section of the act concerning civil proceedings, contained in 1 Dig. L. K., 254. It provides that, if on an issue concerning several things in one count in detinue, no verdict be found for part of them, it shall not be error, but the plaintiff shall be barred of his title to the things omitted. The objection to the verdict can not, therefore, be sustained. A verdict in detinue, for a part of the things demanded, is good for the plaintiff, as to those found for him, and for the defendant, as to the remainder. But the judgment was not correctly entered upon the verdict. It was correct to enter judgment in favor of Tanner, for the slaves found by the verdict for him, if to be had; but instead of rendering judgment for the aggregate value of the four slaves. if they were not to be had, the judgment should have been for their respective value severally. For this irregularity in entering the judgment, it must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and judgment there entered in conformity with this opinion, for Tanner upon the verdict. A judgment for the aggregate value of several articles, in detinue, is erroneous; it should be for the separate value of each, as found by the jury. Mayes, for appellants; Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Thomas v. Tanner 6 T.B.Mon. 52, 22 Ky. 52, 1827 WL 1629 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
