(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 165,  8 Ky. 165 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1283 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Philip Graves v. Frederick Graves et al. Apr. 8, 1818. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE LOGAN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 230(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(C) Bona Fide Purchasers 400k225 Notice 400k230 Recitals in  Conveyance 400k230(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A. gave a power of attorney to B., directing B. to make an assignment of land to C. and D. jointly, and the assignment was made to C. alone. Held, that although the contract was by parol, yet as C.'s title was consummated by execution of the power of attorney, that fact, and the payment by D. of part of the purchase money, gave D. a right to relief against C., and that B., who bought of C., must be considered as a purchaser with notice of D.'s equity, and should be compelled to surrender the land. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This suit was brought by the appellant in the court below for the purpose of obtaining the title to one moiety of 200 acres of land, patented in the name of Spear Spencer, in consequence of an assignment of the plat and certificate of survey, made in the name of Frederick Graves. The appellant in his bill asserts the equitable right through a purchase made from F. Graves by Spear Spencer, the patentee, and which he alleges to have been made for the joint benefit of Spencer and himself; but he charges that in consequence of an assignment made to Spencer by the appellee Caldwell, under a power of attorney given by F. Graves, directing an assignment to Spencer and the appellant jointly, the patent improperly issued to Spencer alone; and moreover he charges, that although he has paid his part of the purchase money to F. Graves, and notwithstanding Caldwell, acting under the power of attorney, must have known he was interested, yet he now pretends a claim to the land under a contract with Spencer, and prays that the appellees be compelled to surrender to him their title, &c. F. Graves by his answer admits the right of the appellant to relief; and the bill as to the heirs of Spencer, is taken for confessed; but Caldwell having demurred to the bill, and the court being of opinion the appellant ought not to be relieved, dismissed his bill with cost. Whether the cause be considered, with reference to the allegations of the bill, or the proof in the cause, there can not be a doubt, but that the appellees should be compelled to surrender the legal title to one moiety of the land to the appellant. Although the contract by which he became entitled to one moiety, seems not to have been reduced to writing, yet as Spencer's contract with Graves was consummated by the execution of the power of attorney, under which, though not in strict conformity with it, Spencer became invested with the legal title, that however, when connected with the fact of the appellant's having paid his part of the purchase money, sufficiently demonstrates his right to relief against Spencer. And with respect to Caldwell, as he must have been informed of the power of attorney, under which he made the assignment to Spencer, before he derived any claim to the land, he must be considered (viewing the statements in the bill in the most favorable light for him) as purchaser with notice of the appellant's prior equity, and consequently ought to surrender his claim to the land. *2 A purchase made by one, yet for the benefit of two and a power of attorney given to convey the land to both, takes the case out of the statute of frauds. A purchaser deriving title under papers shewing the equitable interest of another, is a purchaser with notice, and holds as trustee for that other:--vid. Amb. 313; 2 Vin. 384; 1 Ch. Ca., 287; 2 Ch. Ca. Moor v. Bennet. The decree of the court therefore sustaining the appellee, Caldwell's demurrer, and dismissing the appellant's bill, must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to that court, and such proceedings there had as may be consistent with this opinion. Bibb for appellant, Pope for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Graves v. Graves 1 A.K.Marsh. 165, 8 Ky. 165, 1818 WL 1283 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
