(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 506,  8 Ky. 506 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1062 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Higginbotham et al. v. Fishback. Apr. 15, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 63(7) 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(F) Hostile Character of Possession 20k59 Possession Consistent with That of Another, and  Possession Becoming Adverse After Amicable Entry 20k63 By Vendor or  Purchaser 20k63(7) k. Possession of Purchaser Becoming Adverse  to Vendor. Most Cited Cases Where an occupant enters under a contract of purchase, his purchasing an adverse claim does not render his possession adverse to the vendor under whom he entered. Adverse Possession 20 k 67 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(F) Hostile Character of Possession 20k67 k. Adverse Entry. Most Cited Cases Where a person disseised had only a right of entry, and no actual seisin, a descent cast, and the lapse of five years, will not toll his right of entry. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: In the progress of this cause in the court below, various exceptions appear to have been taken to that court's opinion, but as the main contest involves the question, whether the possession of the plaintiffs in error can bar the defendant's right of entry, our enquiries will be confined to that subject. As the patent, under which the right was asserted by the defendant in error, emanated less than twenty years ago, there cannot, according to the former decisions of this court, be any doubt, but that the statute of limitations can not avail the plaintiffs in error as a bar to the action. The act of limitations can not be successfully relied on, in bar of a plaintiff's ejectment, whose patent is not twenty years old. To toll a plaintiff's right of entry by five years' possession and a descent cast, there must be an actual disseizin:--vide  8 Ky. 315, Taylor v. Steele's heirs, 315, acc. An entry into lands under a contract to pur?? ?? ??entee is no disseizin. Holding under such contract is amicable, not adverse: vide Gay v. Moffett, and Daniel v. Ellis, 8 Ky. 60. The occupant purchasing in an adverse claim. does not charge the character of the possession. But as respects the plaintiff, Jasper Griffin, it is contended, that as his father had been in possession more than five years after the date of the patent, before his death, the descent cast upon Jasper by his father's death, tolled the defendant's right to enter upon the land; and, consequently, as to him, it is urged the defendant improperly recovered a judgment for the land. Had the father of Jasper been guilty of an actual disseisin on the land, and continued in its possession for five years thereafter, there would be no doubt, but that by the descent cast upon his son, the defendant's right o?? entry would have been tolled; but as the ancestor is proven to have gained the possession not by disseisin, but by contract with the owner of the claim through which the defendant now asserts his right, it is plain, that so long as the possession was held under that contract, it can not have been adverse to the defendant's title; and as we are of opinion the evidence in the cause does not shew that the ancestor waived all ben?? from the contract, it follows, that the descent from him can not have the operation contended for. The evidence does, it is true, prove that the ancestor, more than five years before his death, purchased from the patentee another adverse claim, but as that might have been done merely for the purpose of quieting his possession acquired, as we have shewn, under a different title, and as no other circumstance is shewn, tending in any wise to prove that he did not still look to the person with whom the contract, under which the possession was gained to perfect his title, the bare circumstance of his purchasing another claim can not, per se, so change the nature of his possession, as by a descent cast, to take away the defendant's right of entry. *2 The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1818. Higginbotham v. Fishback 1 A.K.Marsh. 506, 8 Ky. 506, 1819 WL 1062 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
