(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 268,  19 Ky. 268 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1290 (Ky.)) Red Flg Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Elliott v. Dazey. Oct. 4, 1826. *1 Accord. Tort. Pleading. Practice. ERROR TO THE NICHOLAS CIRCUIT; WILLIAM P. ROPER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Accord and Satisfaction 8 k 17 8 Accord and Satisfaction 8k15 Execution of Accord as Satisfaction 8k17 k. Effect of Accord Without Satisfaction. Most Cited Cases Assumpsit cannot be maintained on an accord of a fraud committed by the promisor, for such an accord, without satisfaction, will be no defense to the action for the tort. Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 8 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k3 Grounds 42k8 k. Tort. Most Cited Cases One induced to purchase a note on the false representations of the assignor that the maker is solvent cannot sue in assumpsit for damages. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Declaration. The plaintiff below declared against the defendant in four counts in assumpsit, one for money had and received, in a second for money paid, laid out and expended. In the third, he alleged that the defendant had sold and assigned to him a note, without recourse, on a certain Isaac Long, for a valuable consideration, and at the time of the sale and transfer, falsely represented the said Long to be solvent and able to pay the note, knowing the fact to be otherwise, and that Long had left the state, and in consideration of thus having defrauded his, the defendant assumed upon himself and promised to pay so much money as he had received for the note. Third, a special count. In the fourth count, he alleges that the defendant well knew that said Long was insolvent and unable to pay the note, and yet carefully concealed the fact from him, and sold and assigned the note to him without recourse, and thus defrauded him, and in consideration of this fraud, the defendant assumed upon himself and promised to pay as much as he had received for the note. Fourth, a special count. On the trial of the issue of non-assumpsit, the defendant below moved the court to instruct the jury to disregard the third and fourth counts as faulty: Which instruction the court gave and the plaintiff excepted; and having no evidence to sustain any other count, a verdict and judgment was rendered against him, and to reverse it, he has prosecuted this writ of error. Instructions to the jury to disregard the third and fourth counts as ill; non-suit exception, &c. It is evident that the third and fourth counts set out a fraud in the defendant for which the plaintiff was entitled to his action for tort. But the fraud itself lays no foundation for an assumpsit, except, as the plaintiff alleges that the defendant had accorded the matter and agreed to pay so much for the fraud, on which he has brought his action. Assumpsit can not be maintained on an accord of a fraud, committed by promissor-- --For such an accord, without satisfaction, would be no defence to the action for the tort. *2 It is laid down in all the books which treat of the subject, that a mere accord, without satisfaction received, is no plea in bar, in the mouth of a defendant who is sued in any action to which an accord and satisfaction may be pleaded, and one of the reasons assigned is, that no action lies on such accord, and therefore it ought not to be a bar for a defendant. Indeed if it is no defence for a defendant, it ought not to be cause of action for a plaintiff, and the rule must hold good both ways, and it may be considered as well settled, that an accord furnishes no ground for either cause of action, or defence, and of course the court below did not err in instructing the jury to disregard these counts, and the plaintiff was bound to resort to his action of tort for the fraud. 5, Co. 79, b. Cro. Eliz. 304, 305, Allen v. Harris, 1, Ld. Raym. 122. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Triplett, for plaintiff; Taul, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Elliott v. Dazey 3 T.B.Mon. 268, 19 Ky. 268, 1826 WL 1290 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
