(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 495,  9 Ky. 495 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1103 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John H. Farrow v. Kenaz Turner. Oct. 6, 1820. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 212 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k212 k. Abandonment or Waiver of Demurrer. Most Cited Cases After a demurrer is withdrawn, the decision of the court thereon cannot be assigned for error. Bills and Notes 56 k 92(1) 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(E) Consideration 56k91 Sufficiency 56k92 In  General 56k92(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A consideration to support a note need not pass from the payee to the payor. If it passes from a stranger, it imparts validity to the note. Bills and Notes 56 k 92(1) 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(E) Consideration 56k91 Sufficiency 56k92 In  General 56k92(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases In order that a valuable consideration may support a note, it is immaterial from whom it moves, whether it be from the obligee or from any other person. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Turner, as assignee, brought this action on a promissory note executed by Turner to Eli Shortridge. The defendant filed two pleas, to the first of which the plaintiff demurred, and replied to the second--the defendant joined in demurrer to the first plea, and demurred to the replication to the second. The court sustained the demurrer to the first plea, and overruled the demurrer to the replication. The defendant then appeal to the court for leave to withdraw his joinder in demurrer to the first plea, and tendered an amendment to that plea; but the court being if opinion that the plea amended was insufficient, refused to permit the amendment. The defendant also obtained leave from the court, and withdrew his demurrer to the replication to the second plea, and filed a joinder. The issue thus made up, was tried by a jury, and verdict found for the plaintiff, and from the judgment rendered on that verdict, the defendant, Farrow, appealed to this court, Farrow has assigned for error, that the court erred: 1. In sustaining the demurrer to the first plea. 2. In refusing to permit the amendment offered to that plea. 3. In overruling the defendant's demurrer to the replication to the second plea. If a demurrer is decided in the court below against the demurrant, who thereupon withdraws the demurrer and pleads oyer, he can not assign error in the judgment below on the demurrer. From the preceding statement, it will readily be perceived, that an examination into the validity of the replication to the second plea would be improper in this court. By withdrawing his demurrer, the defendant waived all objections to the decision of the court on the demurrer to that replication, and he can not be allowed in this court, again to question the correctness of that decision. *2 Though a consideration of some sort is indispensable to the validity of a note, yet such consideration need not pass from obligee to obligor, if it passes at all, though from a stranger, it imparts validity to the note. It is obvious, therefore, that the third assignment of error can not avail the appellant. In deciding on the first assignment of error, it is proper to examine the validity of the first plea. It is as follows: "the defendant comes, &c., and says the plaintiff, his action ought not to have and maintain, because he says that the said note was merely voluntary, and was made by said defendant to Eli Shortridge, without any consideration, moving from the said Eli to the said defendant, &c. It is apparent from this plea that it contains no defence, unless it is essential to the validity of the note, that some consideration should have moved from Shortridge to the defendant. We know of no principle of law that requires such a consideration. A valuable consideration of some sort, it will be conceded, is, under the statute of this country, essential to the validity of a note; but if it be a consideration of value, it is totally immaterial from whom it moves--whether it be from obligee or from any other person, it carries with it the same legal operation, and communicates to the note the same validity. It results, therefore, that the demurrer to the first plea was properly sustained. And with respect to the amendment offered to the plea, it need only be remarked, that although expressed in different language, it imports substantially the same defence as that contained in the first plea; and consequently, if we are correct in supposing the court decided correctly in sustaining the demurrer to that plea, it can not have erred in rejecting the amendment. The judgment must be affirmed with cost and damages. Pope, for appellant; Bibb, for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Farrow v. Turner 2 A.K.Marsh. 495, 9 Ky. 495, 1820 WL 1103 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
