(Cite as: 4 Bibb 332,  7 Ky. 332 (Ky.),  1816 WL 751 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wilson v. Huston. May 21, 1816. *1 On motion against a sheriff for failing to return in due time an execution issued from another county, to excuse himself for the neglect he must show that he had in proper time inclosed the execution, and sent it by mail or some safe conveyance to the county from whence it issued. The Court will not permit the sheriff to amend his return by inserting the time when he inclosed the execution. An execution with more than ninety days between the teste and return, is not void but voidable. Sheriff is bound by the process, and cannot avail himself of the defect when he fails to do his duty. The motion for not returning in time lies notwithstanding the execution is returned before notice served. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 90 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k90 k. Directions for Return. Most Cited Cases Where an execution was returnable by law in 90 days from its teste, the fact that it had been made returnable at a time more than 90 days from its teste did not excuse the sheriff executing it from liability for not returning it within the 90 days. Execution 161 k 333 161 Execution 161XII Return 161k333 k. Time for Making. Most Cited Cases Sending the execution by mail to the proper county in due time is sufficient. Execution 161 k 338 161 Execution 161XII Return 161k338 k. Amendment. Most Cited Cases A sheriff will not be allowed to amend his return by showing when he mailed the execution. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 123 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k123 k. Failure to Make Return. Most Cited Cases A sheriff is not excused for a failure to return an execution in due time by the fact that more than 90 days intervened between the teste and the return. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 123 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k123 k. Failure to Make Return. Most Cited Cases On a motion against a sheriff for failing to return in due time an execution issued from another county, to excuse himself for the neglect he must show that he had in proper time inclosed the execution and sent it by mail, or some safe conveyance, to the county whence it issued. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is a writ of error brought to reverse a judgment obtained by Huston on a motion made by him against Wilson as sheriff, for failing to return a fieri facias which had previously issued in favor of Huston against the estate of Samuel Wittie, and which had been delivered to Wilson to be executed. The motion was predicated upon that provision of the act of 1810 relative to sheriffs, which makes them liable for the principal, interest, and costs expressed in an execution, together with thirty per centum damage upon the amount thereof, for failing, neglecting, or refusing to return such execution within one month after the return day. *2 During the progress of the trial in the Court below, Wilson, who was sheriff of Christian county, moved the Court for leave to amend his return on the execution, by inserting the time when he inclosed the execution and return to be sent to Hardin county, from whence it issued, but his motion was overruled and exceptions taken to the opinion of the Court. As Wilson was sheriff of a different county to that from which the execution issued according to another provision of the act of 1810, he was not compelled to go out of his county to render a return; but to excuse himself, however, from the penalties of the act, it became necessary to show that the execution, together with the sheriff's return, had in proper time been inclosed and directed to the plaintiff in the execution, and sent by mail, or some other safe conveyance, to the county from whence the execution issued. To show this it is presumed the attempt was made to amend the return on the execution; but which, as we suppose, was properly repelled by the Court below; for it is no where made the duty of the sheriff to mention in his return the time when he incloses the execution, and to allow the time to be inserted by way of amendment, for the purpose of being used as evidence for the sheriff, would be permitting a party to make evidence for himself; not only subverting a fundamental rule of evidence, but tending to a total evasion of the penalties of the statute. The execution, however, appears from the record in this case to have been made returnable at a time more distant than ninety days from its teste, and hence it is contended that the sheriff ought not to be made liable for not returning it within the time limited by the act. Were the circumstance of more than ninety days intervening between the teste and return to have the operation of making void the execution, then as it would be a mere nullity, the sheriff, it would be admitted, could not be made liable for not returning it; but if the execution be not void, but voidable only, then as the writ is a sufficient justification for the sheriff, he should, without regard to the regularity of the proceedings, obey its mandate, and for a failure to do so cannot excuse himself by objections to the process.--2 Ld. Ray. 775--2 Sand. 101, and Williams' note to same page--2 Cro. Eli. 165-188-- Bul. N. P. 66. That the execution was not absolutely void, we apprehend there can be but little doubt. At common law it was necessary that executions should bear teste in term time, and be made returnable to the next succeeding term; but for a failure in either respect, the process although erroneous, was not void, but amendable--2 Bun. 1187--Tidd's Prac. 914--9 John. Rep. 386. In this country executions are not required either to bear teste or be made returnable in term time, but as a substitute for that rule of the common law, they are to bear teste by the clerks of the Courts respectively, and to be made returnable to the rule days of the said Courts, so that there be at least thirty and not more than ninety days between the teste and return of the writ. But as the time required between the teste and return is not of the essence of the writ, but rather directory to the clerk in issuing it, an error in that respect should not have a greater operation than the making of an execution at common law bear teste out of term time would have, and consequently at most is but matter of error by which the party might avoid the process, but of which the sheriff in a proceeding against him cannot avail himself. *3 But it is also objected that inasmuch as the sheriff had returned the execution before the notice of the motion was served upon him, he should not be subjected to the penalties of the act. This objection cannot, however, be sustained: for as by the express provisions of the law, the sheriff upon failing to return the execution becomes liable to its penalties, by no subsequent act of his can that liability be avoided. The right of the plaintiff in the execution to recover from the sheriff was complete upon the failure to return the execution according to the requisitions of the act, and that right cannot have been affected by the subsequent return of the sheriff. The judgment must be affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1816. Wilson v. Huston 4 Bibb 332, 7 Ky. 332, 1816 WL 751 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
