(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 282,  21 Ky. 282 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1554 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kendall v. Honey. Jun. 29, 1827. *1 Damages for Detention of Dower. Statutes. ERROR TO THE BOURBON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Dower and Curtesy 136 k 104 136 Dower and Curtesy 136III Rights and Remedies of Surviving Spouse 136k104 k. Damages for Detention and Mesne Profits. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 136k105) Damages cannot be recovered, either at law or in equity, for detention of dower in lands sold by the husband in his lifetime. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. To obtain dower in a tract of about one hundred acres of land, and to recover damages for the detention of the same, Betty Honey exhibited her bill in equity, against Joseph Kendall, to whom she alleges the land was conveyed by her deceased husband, John Honey, during her coverture, and under which conveyance, she states the said Kendall has held the possession ever since. Bill in equity for dower, against the alienee of the husband. Kendall admits the conveyance of the land to him by the deceased husband of the complainant, but alleges that the land was never held by the husband for his own use and benefit, but in trust for him, the said Kendall, and he therefore insists that the complainant is not entitled to dower in the land. Defense, that the husband had held only in trust for the defendant. The court below, was of opinion that the complainant was entitled to dower, and caused the same to be assigned to her by commissioners appointed for that purpose, and moreover decreed that Kendall should pay rent, by way of damages, for the detention of dower, from the time it was demanded by the complainant. Decree of the circuit court for dower, and damages for the detention of dower from the time of the demand. To reverse that decree, this writ of error is prosecuted by Kendall. The court was unquestionably correct in decreeing dower in the land to the complainant. She is admitted to have been the wife of John Honey when Kendall obtained the conveyance of the land from him, and though her husband is alleged to have held the land in trust only, there is no evidence in the cause conducing to show that he was not beneficially seized thereof to his own use. As the lawful wife of Kendall's vendor, therefore, the complainant has an undoubted right to dower in the land, and the court was consequently correct in decreeing an assignment thereof to her. Decree ordering the assignment of dower, approved. But we are not of opinion that the court was correct in decreeing compensation to her for the detention of her dower. If the husband had died seized of the land, we should have had no difficulty in sustaining the decree for compensation, as well as that for dower. The right of the complainant to be compensated for the detention of her dower, could not, however, in such a case, be maintained upon common law principles. Widow was not entitled to damages for the detention of her dower by the common law. *2 It was not until the Parliament of England passed the statute of Merton, 20 H. 3 ch. 1. that damages were recoverable in any proceedings by widows to recover dower in the hands of their deceased husbands. But by that statute, which has been in substance re-enacted by the legislature of this country, (1 Dig. L. K. 444), damages are made recoverable by a widow, in an action for dower in the land of which the husband died seized. It is true, that according to the literal import of the statute, it would seem that damages are recoverable only in writs of dower unde nihil habet brought for land of which the husband died seized. Statute of Merton, 20 H. 3, c. 1, re-enacted here, gave damages for the detention of dower, recovered by the writ unde nihil habet, in lands of which the husband died seized. But it requires no great liberality of construction to bring suits in equity within the influence of the statute. One great object with the makers of the statute, was to enable widows to recover an adequate compensation for the detention of their dower, in the lands of which their husbands died seized, and although suits in chancery are not expressly named, yet as courts of equity now possess an acknowledged jurisdiction in cases of dower, it surely can not be an improper exercise of that jurisdiction, to follow the directions of the statute, and decree damages, where damages is recoverable in a writ of unde nihil habet. If, therefore, the husband of the complainant had died seized of the land, in which she has in this case shewed herself to be entitled to dower, we should have no hesitation in saying, that the court was correct in decreeing to her compensation for the detention of her dower. Equity in like, cases allows the damages. But it is not pretended that the husband of the complainant, was, at the time of his death seized of the land. He had sold and conveyed the land to Kendall, by whom it has ever since been possessed. Was it then, correct in a suit brought to recover dower in lands thus sold and conveyed by the husband in his lifetime, to decree compensation to the complainant for the detention of her dower? This question has an answer in the statute to which we have already referred. We have seen that at common law no damages were recoverable for the detention of dower, and the only change in the common law, which has been made by the statute, is to allow damages to be recovered for withholding from widows dower, in lands of which their husbands died seized. Such is the construction which has been put upon the statute of England, by all jurists and commentators who have written upon the subject, and such we understand to be the unambiguous import of the statute, as re-enacted by the legislature of this country. Co. Litt. 32; Dyer, 284. Bac. ab. title Dower, J.; 2 John. R. 119. But damages are not recoverable in either equity or at law, for the detention of dower in lands aliened by the husband in his lifetime. *3 The decree, so far as relates to the complainant's right of dower, must therefore be affirmed, but as respects the pecuniary compensation, which Kendall was directed to pay, the decree must be reversed. Kendall must recover cost in this court. Talbot, for plaintiff; T. A. Marshall, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Kendall v. Honey 5 T.B.Mon. 282, 21 Ky. 282, 1827 WL 1554 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
