(Cite as: 3 Bibb 340,  6 Ky. 340 (Ky.),  1814 WL 781 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Reynolds v. Lyne's executor. May 23, 1814. West Headnotes Payment 294 k 12(.5) 294 Payment 294I Requisites and Sufficiency 294k12 Particular Kinds of Money or Currency 294k12(.5) k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 294k12) A. bought land of B., to be paid for when a conveyance was made. The dollar then was worth 5s. 9d. Before the conveyance, the currency of the dollar was raised to 6s.  Held, that B. was entitled to receive payment in current money at its value when the conveyance was made. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THE appellee obtained against the appellant a judgment at law, on a bond given to Lyne in his lifetime and bearing date in 1785. To be relieved against this judgment the appellant filed his bill with injunction. If a contract is made when the dollar is at 5s 9, and afterward it is enhanced to 6s, and the obligor and obligee when payment is due dispute whether payment shall be made in dollars at 5s 9, or at 6s, but finally the obligor executes his bond for the sum produced by charging the difference between dollars at 5s 9 and 6, believing he was bound to pay in dollars at 5s 9, he shall be relieved. It appears Lyne, some time in the year 1782, while the currency of a dollar was 5s.i 9Id. sold to Reynolds a quantity of land, for which he was to be paid whenever Lyne should convey the land. Before a conveyance was made by Lyne, and consequently before he was entitled to demand payment, the currency of a dollar was raised to 6s. Subsequently to this, payment to a considerable amount was made by Reynolds; but a dispute arose between the parties whether the money paid should be estimated at the rate of currency when the contract was made or at the time of payment. Reynolds insisting the rate of currency when the payment fell due should prevail, and Lyne contending he was entitled to pay according to the rate when the contract was made. Finally, however, the obligation upon which judgment at law was obtained, was given by Reynolds, including the balance for the land, after deducting the amount paid, according to the rate of currency when the agreement was made. And it is now contended that obligation was given through mistake, and hence it is urged Reynolds should be relieved to the extent of the difference on the amount paid, between the currency when the contract was made and the time of payment. That difference appears satisfactorily from the appellee's answer to be 20l.i 12is. 6 d.; and the question for the decision of this Court is, should the appellant's injunction have been made perpetual for that amount? Reynolds must have given the obligation under the impression that Lyne was entitled to receive the payment at the rate of currency when the contract was first made. If, therefore, Lyne had no such right, but payment according to the rate of currency when the demand fell due would have satisfied the claim, it results the obligation must have been given through mistake, and consequently relief should have been granted to the extent of that mistake. In England the king has the right to enhance, debase, or change the coin at his pleasure; and wherever he exercises that power, as if he makes base money current, it has been held it shall be taken as sterling. So it has also been held that if an obligation be to pay so much in current money at such a day, and before the day the money be enhanced by proclamation, payment or tender in the enhanced value is sufficient--See 5 Com. Dig. 97 (B) 8. When the original contract between Reynolds and Lyne was made, the legislature of Virginia had the power to regulate the currency of their coin within the limits of that State; and as the contract between Reynolds and Lyne was made within that State, the promise by Reynolds to pay in current money of Virginia, must have been agreed on with a knowledge of the State sovereignty, and subject to its control in regulating the currency. *2 We are of opinion, therefore, that the original obligation of Reynolds might have been satisfied by payment in current money at its value when Lyne became entitled to demand payment, and that he is entitled to relief against the judgment at law for 20l.i 12is.i 6Id. with the interest that has accumulated thereon, it being the amount of the difference of currency, to which he is entitled to a credit according to the principles of this opinion. The decree of the Court below is therefore erroneous and must be reversed with costs; the cause must be remanded to that Court and a decree there entered conformable to this opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Reynolds v. Lyne's Ex'r 3 Bibb 340, 6 Ky. 340, 1814 WL 781 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
