(Cite as: 4 Bibb 456,  7 Ky. 456 (Ky.),  1816 WL 825 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Crenshaw v. Carrico. Nov. 26, 1816. *1 In an action to recover the amount of a protested order, the execution of it by the drawer must be proved. Where a writing forms the basis of an action, proof of its execution need not be made, unless it be denied by plea. Profert of a wriing should only be made where it is the foundation of the action. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 485 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k472 Plea, Answer, or Affidavit of Defense 56k485 k. Verification. Most Cited Cases In an action to recover the amount of a protested order, the execution of the order must be proved, though defendant has not denied its execution under oath. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. CARRICO, in part pay for a horse purchased by him from Crenshaw, drew an order requesting a certain Michael Riley to pay Crenshaw forty dollars in good merchantable wheat at four shillings per bushel; and Riley having refused to pay the wheat, Crenshaw brought this suit for the purpose of subjecting Carrico to the payment thereof. On the trial of the general issue, the Court below decided that without proof of the execution of the order by Carrico, it should not be received as evidence; and the first question is as to the correctness of that decision. It is objected that under the statutes of this country, unless the execution of the order had been denied by the oath of Carrico, no proof of its execution was necessary; and as there was no such denial in the present case, it is inferred the Court erred in requiring such proof. With respect to writings which in themselves form the basis of an action, and upon which an action is in fact founded, the position assumed is certainly correct. But as the order in question is not of that character, it does not come within the influence of the statutes; but, as was correctly decided by the Court below, its execution should have been proved. If then we are correct in supposing (and of which there is no doubt) that the order is not of that description of writings upon which in legal contemplation an action can be said to be founded, it not only proves the correctness of the decision of the Court below in requiring the execution of the order to be proved, but moreover shows the Court did right in refusing to allow the declaration to be amended by making a profert of the order; for it is only when a writing is the foundation of an action, that profert of the writing should be made. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. Crenshaw v. Carrico 4 Bibb 456, 7 Ky. 456, 1816 WL 825 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
