(Cite as: 4 Bibb 450,  7 Ky. 450 (Ky.),  1816 WL 819 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Mahan, etc. v. Knox. 1816. *1 Scire facias on a recognizance of special bail, "We, W M, etc., do hereby acknowledge ourselves special bail for W S, in the Logan Circuit Court, wherein J K is plaintiff and said S defendant."--The scire facias ought to aver before whom it was taken, and the recognizance ought to have referred to the suit as depending in Court at that time. West Headnotes Recognizances 325 k 11 325 Recognizances 325k11 k. Scire Facias. Most Cited Cases A scire facias on a recognizance ought to aver before whom it was taken. Bail 49 k 33 49 Bail 49I In Civil Actions 49k25 Action or Scire Facias on Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k33 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases A scire facias on a recognizance of special bail ought to aver before whom it was taken, and the recognizance ought to refer to the suit as pending in court at that time. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an appeal from a judgment rendered in favor of the appellee, in a scire facias brought by him against the appellants. The object of the scire facias was to subject the appellants, as special bail to the payment of a judgment previously obtained by Knox against William Stringer. The writing recited as the recognizance upon which the appellants were sought to be made liable, is a follows: "We, William M'Mahan and Samuel Potter, do hereby acknowledge ourselves special bail for William Stringer, in the Logan Circuit Court, wherein Joseph Knox is plaintiff and said Stringer defendant. Witness our hands and seals the 3d day of July, 1813. William Stringer, Wm. M'Mahan, Samuel Potter, Ira Woodruff." But because it is not shown in the scire facias before whom the writing was taken, the scire facias is insufficient to warrant a judgment against the appellants: for if it was not acknowledged before the proper person authorized to take the recognizance of bail, it cannot form the basis of a recovery by scire facias-- (4 Littell 176). Beside, it is not shown the suit against Stringer was depending in Court when the writing referred to was acknowledged; and hence there is nothing in the scire facias from which it can be judicially inferred that the appellants' undertaking applied to the suit in which the judgment mentioned in the scire facias was recovered. The judgment of the Court below must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to that Court and the scire facias there dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. McMahan v. Knox 4 Bibb 450, 7 Ky. 450, 1816 WL 819 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
