(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 618,  8 Ky. 618 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1114 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Elliot's Heirs v. Whaley. Oct. 26, 1819. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 65(2) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400II Construction and Operation of Contract 400k60 Subject-Matter 400k65 Quantity or Extent of Land 400k65(2) k. Sale by the Acre or in Gross. Most Cited  Cases Where a survey and deed describe a tract of land as containing a certain number of acres, which in truth contains a much larger number, but it appears that the purchase was made, possession taken, and the consideration paid, before making the survey, and it is not proved that the vendor or vendee ever estimated the number of acres contained in the tract, the sale should be considered as a sale in gross, and not a sale by the acre. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 In 1786, the ancestor of the appellees, by a deed duly executed, and containing a description of the boundary, alleged to contain 185 acres, conveyed to the appellant a tract of land in the county of Fayette. In 1814, many years after the death of their ancestor, the appellees, discovering that, instead of 185 acres, the tract contains 215 acres, exhibited their bill in equity, alleging the sale to have been made by the acre, and not in gross, and asking a decree for the surplus above 185 acres, which they charge to have been included in the conveyance by mistake of the parties and surveyor. On a final hearing, the court being of opinion the heirs were entitled to relief, pronounced a decree against Whaley for the surplus. And from that decree Whaley appealed to this court. At a former term, this court, supposing the sale to Whaley not to have been of the tract in gross, but by the acre, gave an opinion affirming the decree of the court below. Vide, pa. 343. A re-hearing was then applied for by the counsel of Whaley, and granted by the court, and it becomes necessary now to review the grounds upon which relief is sought by the heirs of Elliot. It will be perceived that the only ground upon which the heirs can have had any plausible pretext to assert a claim, is that of the sale by their ancestor having been by the acre; but from a scrupulous and attentive examination of the exhibits and evidence in the cause, we are thoroughly convinced, that the sale was of the tract in gross. There is no evidence conducing to prove that Elliot, at the time of the sale, was the owner of other lands than that contained in the deed. The land conveyed, it is true, is described by the deed to be a part of a settlement and pre-emption called and known by the name of Gillaspie's settlement and pre-emption; but that settlement and pre-emption is not proven, and in the absence of proof it is not to be presumed to have belonged to Elliot. In the absence of proof of Elliot having more land, therefore, we must, in the present case, assume the fact, that he was the proprietor of no other part of Gillaspie's settlement and pre-emption than that contained within the boundary described in the deed of conveyance to Whaley. And owning but that much, it is most rational to suppose, that when desirous of selling, he would not be inclined, out of a tract of 215 acres, to sell 185 acres only. And that he was not so disposed, but did actually sell the whole tract, is the more conclusively evinced by the circumstance of Elliott after the sale, having caused a survey of the entire tract, and executed, in accordance to that survey, the deed of conveyance to Whaley. The survey and deed, it is true, describes the tract as containing 185 acres; but as neither Elliot or Whaley is proven to have known or even put an estimate upon the quantity of acres contained in the tract, and especially as the purchase appears to have been made, possession taken, and the consideration money paid, anterior to the making of the survey, it is not to be presumed, from the description of quantity contained in the survey and deed, that in making the contract of sale the parties were influenced in the price by the apprehension of the tract containing but 185 acres. And that they were not so influenced, and could not have made their estimate by the acre, is the more obvious from the circumstance that one hundred pounds, the price given for the land, can not be produced by estimating the acre according to any known denomination of coin; as for example, to construe the sale to have been made by the acre, in order to produce the sum of l100, we must be under the necessity of supposing, what is extremely improbable, that the price agreed on by the parties, was 10s. 9d.1/2 34-37 of a farthing, per acre. We are not, however, left to conjecture, from these circumstances alone, whether the sale was for the tract in gross, or by the acre, but the presumption in favor of a sale in gross, is greatly heightened by the testimony of Carter, by whom the purchase money is proven to have been paid. He proves the settlement of Whaley upon the land, and the acknowledgment of Elliot before the survey was made, of his having sold the land; and although he does not, in express terms, say whether Elliot acknowledged the sale to have been made of the tract in gross, from the phraseology of his deposition, it is obvious he intended it to be so understood. *2 Assuming, therefore, that the sale was made of the tract in gross, it follows that the heirs of Elliot have shewn no just cause for resorting to the chancellor for relief, and consequently without deciding what would have been the appropriate relief had the sale been by the acre, the former opinion of this court must be set aside, and the decree of the court below reversed with cost, and the cause remanded to that court, and the bill dismissed with cost. Ky.App. 1819. Elliot's Heirs v. Whaley 1 A.K.Marsh. 618, 8 Ky. 618, 1819 WL 1114 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
