(Cite as: 4 Bibb 496,  7 Ky. 496 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1067 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ewing's administrator v. Beauchamp. Apr. 12, 1817. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 720 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIV Continuance 307Ak720 k. Amendment of pleadings or change of parties. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 94k30  Continuance) Where the plaintiff amends his replication to a plea that contains no legal defense to the action, the defendant is not entitled to a continuance. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS was an action of covenant, brought by Beauchamp upon a deed executed by Ewing in his lifetime. The administrator pleaded ten several pleas, and Beauchamp having filed his replications, the administrator demurred to one of the replications; and the demurrer being sustained, leave was obtained by Beauchamp to amend his replication; whereupon the administrator demanded a continuance of the cause, but the Court refused a continuance: and the first question we shall notice is, should the cause have been continued? If the amendment made to the replication was in matter of substance, according to the plain import of the act of 1810 (session acts 144) the cause should have been continued; but we are of opinion the amendment was not material: for the plea to which it is a response most clearly furnishes no legitimate defense to the action, and consequently any replication which might be made cannot involve a material inquiry. The amendment, therefore, as it is responsive to an invalid plea, was not material, and as such did not give a good cause of continuance. Issues having been made up on the several pleas, a trial was had, and the jury returned a verdict that the intestate Ewing had not in his lifetime, nor his administrator since, performed the covenant in the declaration mentioned, and assessed damages to the amount of $154; but they also found that the administrator had no assets; whereupon the Court rendered judgment in favor of Beauchamp for the damages assessed, to be levied of the estate which should thereafter come to the hands of the administrator to be administered. It is objected by the assignment of errors, that the finding of the jury is not sufficiently responsive to all the issues; and hence it is contended that a venire de novo should have been awarded. The verdict does not, it is true, respond to the eighth issue; but as that is an issue to a replication of nul tiel record, it is plain the jury could not regularly try it: and hence a venire de novo for that purpose should not issue. With respect to the other issues, we are of opinion the verdict is substantially good. It contains a direct answer to such of the issues as relate to the sufficiency of assets; and as the other issues are made up to pleas going to a total defeat of Beauchamp's right of recovery, the verdict by assessing damages in his favor, contains, although not in express terms, yet substantially, a response to those pleas. The eighth plea above alluded to contains an allegation of an outstanding judgment against the estate of Ewing; and it is objected by the assignment of errors, that the judgment in favor of Beauchamp ought to have been so rendered as to give the outstanding judgment a priority in payment out of the assets which should come to the hands of the administrator to be administered. Before such a judgment could upon any principle be rendered, it was certainly incumbent on the administrator to show the existence of the outstanding judgment. In this he has however totally failed. He has, it is true, shown an issue involving the fact; but no decision of the fact in his favor is apparent from the record. *2 If it is said the Court erred in not deciding on the issue of nul tiel record involving the fact, it is answered, that it is a point not made by the assignment of errors, and of which this Court cannot now inquire. It is also objected that the Court erred in admitting evidence and giving instructions to the jury. By the covenant upon which this suit is brought, Ewing, in case of his failure to deliver the place mentioned in the writing, agreed to pay customary rent; and upon the trial, as is supposed, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of damages, the Court permitted Beauchamp to prove the reasonable cash rent of land in the neighborhood of the place mentioned. To this evidence no solid objection is perceived, and we think it was properly admitted by the Court. With respect to the instructions complained of, as they relate to an immaterial issue growing out of a defective plea on the part of the plaintiff in error, whether correct or not we have not thought material to consider. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1817. Ewing's Adm'r v. Beauchamp 4 Bibb 496, 7 Ky. 496, 1817 WL 1067 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
