(Cite as: 4 Bibb 424,  7 Ky. 424 (Ky.),  1816 WL 807 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ewing's heirs v. Savary. Nov. 19, 1816. *1 A copy of a will recorded in the register's office in Pennsylvania, and certified under the seal of the register, is not evidence here; it does not come within the act of congress of 1790, but it does under the act of 1804, and must be authenticated according to the provisions of that act. A conveyance made prior to '98 can derive no benefit from the act concerning champerty and maintenance. By the laws in force prior to '98, land might be alienated by deed of bargain and sale; but as such a conveyance operates under the statute of uses by transferring the possession to the use, it is essential that the bargainor should be possessed of the land conveyed. Unless there is a possession, it cannot be transferred to the use, nor can a bargainor create an use in the bargainee, unless he has possession. A possession in fact is not indispensable for that purpose--the patent, where there is no person holding adversely, gives a sufficient seisin. But when possession is taken adversely, the seisin given by the patent no longer enables the patentee to raise an use; he has but a naked right of entry, not alienable, and to the extent of the adverse possession held at the date of the deed, the bargainee did not gain any title, but for all the land included in the deed and not at that time held adversely, the title passed by the deed. West Headnotes Champerty and Maintenance 74 k 7(1) 74 Champerty and Maintenance 74k7 Grants of Lands Held Adversely 74k7(1) k. Validity of Deed to Land Held Adversely in General. Most Cited Cases Before the statute of 1798 was passed, it was necessary that the vendor should be in possession, or that there should be no adverse possession, in order to pass the title to the vendee under a deed of bargain and sale. Champerty and Maintenance 74 k 7(1) 74 Champerty and Maintenance 74k7 Grants of Lands Held Adversely 74k7(1) k. Validity of Deed to Land Held Adversely in General. Most Cited Cases A person holding the patent of the commonwealth for land cannot, while the land is held adversely, convey it to a third person by a deed of bargain and sale. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an ejectment, brought by Savary to recover the possession of a tract of land claimed by him under a patent which issued from the Commonwealth of Virginia to Benjamin Wynkoop. In making out Savary's title, it became necessary to prove the death of a certain Herman Joseph Lambert; and for that purpose he introduced a copy from the records in the register's office at Philadelphia, of the last will and testament of said Lambert, and probate thereof, attested by the register, together with the seal of office thereunto affixed. The admission of this record as evidence was opposed by the counsel for Ewing, on the ground that it was not regularly authenticated; but the objection was over ruled, and the record used; and the question now presented for the determination of this Court is, should the record have been rejected? *2 As the evidence does not purport to be a record appertaining to a Court, it is clear the authentication should not conform to the act of congress of 1790. It is however, the record of a public office of the State of Pennsylvania, and as such comes literally within the act of 1804; and according to that act the Court clearly erred in permitting it to go in evidence to the jury. The attestation of the register, together with the seal of his office thereunto annexed, was by the act just mentioned not only necessary, but to make the record evidence in any other State the certificate of the presiding justice of the Court of the county or district in which the register's office is kept, or of the governor or secretary of State, the chancellor or the keeper of the great seal of the State, that the attestation of the register is in due form and by the proper officer; and the certificate, if given by the presiding justice of the Court, should be further authenticated by the clerk or prothonotary of the said Court, certifying under his hand and seal of office that the presiding justice is duly commissioned and qualified; or if the certificate be given by the governor, the secretary of State, the chancellor, or keeper of the great seal, it should be made under the great seal of the State in which the certificate is made. The record, therefore, as it was not properly authenticated, should not have been permitted to go in evidence to the jury; and the judgment rendered in favor of Savary must consequently be reversed: but as there was an objection to the title of Savary taken on the former trial, and it may again occur, we will proceed now to notice it. It was proven that Ewing, the ancestor of the appellants, at the date of the deed to Savary, was residing upon the land in contest; and hence it is objected that Savary can have gained no title under the deed. As the conveyance was made prior to 1798, it can derive no aid from the act of the legislature of this country of that year concerning champerty and maintenance; but its validity must be tested by the laws in force at its date. By those laws land might then be alienated by a deed of bargain and sale; but as such conveyance operated, under the statute usually denominated the statute of uses, by transferring the possession to the use, it is essential the bargainor should be possessed of the land designed to be conveyed. Unless there is a possession, it cannot be transferred to the use; nor can a bargainor, according to the settled doctrine of the law, create an use in the bargainee, unless he has a possession to feed or serve it. A possession in fact is not, however, indispensable for that purpose. The patent of the commonwealth, where there is no person holding adversely, does, we apprehend, give a sufficient seisin. But whenever the possession is taken by another, and held adversely to the patentee, the seisin given by the patent can no longer enable the patentee to raise an use: there the patentee cannot be said to have a possession out of which an use can be served; he can have no possession to be transferred to an use: he has then but a naked right of entry; a right not alienable when the deed to Savary was made; and if Ewing was so possessed at that time, to the extent of that possession Savary cannot have gained any title under his deed from Vanuxen. *3 It must, however, be recollected, that it is to the extent only of Ewing's possession, which he may have held adversely at the date of the deed, that Vanuxen, in consequence thereof, can have been restrained from conveying to Savary; and for so much as may be included in the deed to Savary, and not at that time held adversely by Ewing, the title may have passed by the deed. The judgment must be reversed, the cause remanded to the Court below, and a new trial had not inconsistent with this opinion. The appellants must recover their costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1816. Ewing's Heirs v. Savary 4 Bibb 424, 7 Ky. 424, 1816 WL 807 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
