(Cite as: 4 Litt. 210,  14 Ky. 210 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1255 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Morrison v. M'Millan, &c. Oct. 18, 1823. *1 FROM THE HARRISON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JOHN TRIMBLE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Municipal Corporations 268 k 225(4) 268 Municipal Corporations 268VI Property 268k225 Sale or Other Disposition of Property 268k225(4) k. Authority and Powers of Committee or Officers.  Most Cited Cases Where the title to town lands is vested in trustees by special act of assembly, with a general authority to sell and convey, their deed is prima facie evidence of their authority to convey. Municipal Corporations 268 k 225(4) 268 Municipal Corporations 268VI Property 268k225 Sale or Other Disposition of Property 268k225(4) k. Authority and Powers of Committee or Officers.  Most Cited Cases Act 1801,  2 Litt. p. 459, s 4, expressly requiring the trustees of towns to make deeds of conveyances to the purchasers of lots or their assignees, on their producing a receipt for the purchase money from the original proprietor of the land on which the town is established, imposes no restriction on the power of the trustees in whom the legal title is vested. HARDIN for appellant; TALBOT and TODD for appellees. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an ejectment brought by Morrison in the court below, to recover from M'Millan, &c. the possession of two lots, No. 13 and 14, in the town of Cynthiana. Where the title to the town lands is vested in trustees by special act of assembly, with a general authority to sell and convey, their deed is prima facie evidence that a case existed in which they were authorised to convey. The trial was had in that court on the general issue, and a verdict and judgment recovered by the defendants. The cause turns in this court on the question, whether or not the circuit court decided correctly in excluding from the jury, a deed of conveyance which was introduced as evidence by the plaintiff. The deed purports to have been made by the trustees of the town to the plaintiff, and was rejected from going in evidence to the jury, on the ground that no evidence was introduced by the plaintiff, to prove that the receipt of Robert Harrison, who was the former proprietor of the land on which the town is established, and on whose application the act establishing the town was passed, for the original purchase money, was produced to the trustees, either at or before the time the deed was executed. If, at the time of executing the deed by the trustees, their power to convey the title, has been derived under a special authority to make deeds of conveyance to persons who shall produce to them Harrison's receipt for the purchase money, there might be some force in the objection taken to the sufficiency of the deed. But such was not the nature of the authority under which the trustees acted in making the deed. By the act establishing the town, the title of all the lots was vested in the trustees, and by a provision in that act contained the trustees are expressly required to convey, not only to those persons who might have previously purchased from Harrison, but to all others who should thereafter purchase from them. *2 Such a case is distinguishable from the case of a naked authority, in which the state of case justifying a conveyance must be made out in evidence. Thus possessing power to sell and convey all, the authority of the trustees surely ought to be viewed in a light different from an authority derived under a naked power to convey under special and limited restrictions; and although in the latter case, the person asserting the title under the power, might be required to prove a strict compliance with the power, in the former case, the conveyance of the trustees without the aid of extraneous evidence, prima facie implies every thing to have been done which ought to be done to vest the title in the purchaser. We know that by the fourth section of an act of 1801,  (2 Littell, 459), the trustees of towns are expressly required to make deeds of conveyance to the purchasers of lots or their assignees, upon their producing to them a receipt for the purchase money from the original proprietor of the land upon which the town is established. But that provision of the act can not be admitted to change the nature or degree of evidence necessary to be produced by a vendee asserting title under trustees possessing general power to sell and convey the title to all the lots of a town. The provision is directory to the trustees, and when clothed with general power to sell and convey, after the conveyance is made by them, the title will be presumed to have regularly passed to the vendee. The 4th section of the act of 1801 respecting towns, imposes no restriction on the powers of trustees in whom the legal title is vested. It results, therefore, that the deed introduced by the plaintiff, was erroneously rejected by the court below, and that the judgment must consequently be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to that court, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Morrison v. McMillan 4 Litt. 210, 14 Ky. 210, 1823 WL 1255 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 115 END OF DOCUMENT
