(Cite as: 4 Bibb 21,  7 Ky. 21 (Ky.),  1815 WL 638 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Allen, etc. v. Trimble, etc. Apr. 17, 1815. *1 A deed proved by one witness on the trial, may be given in evidence. If the subscribing witness cannot recollect his attestation, but recognizes his handwriting, and declares it was his practice never to attest, without hearing the acknowledgment of the parties, this is evidence to be left to the jury as to the execution of the deed. In ejectment two separate demises were laid from two different lessors, each for a moiety; the plaintiff gave in evidence a patent to W and H, and one of the lessors claimed title thro' W, the other lessor by sale of sheriff under execution against H. The plaintiff to deduce title to the moiety from W, produced a deed purporting to have been executed by W, and also by Gas attorney for H; but there was no evidence conducing to prove the authority of G; the Court was not bound to instruct the jury what effect the deed would have upon the title of the lessor claiming under the execution?? in case the ??jury should be of opinion that the previous deed executed by Gas attorney of H was made by lawful authority. A deed made by a sheriff after his commission expires, for land sold by him on execution while he was in office, is valid. Lands may be sold under a fi. fa. issued by virtue of a decree in chancery, according to the statutes of Kentucky. In ejectment demise for one moiety from one lessor, and for the other moiety from another lessor, if the title of one of the lessors is not proved, yet the plaintiff shall recover according to the title proved by the other lessor. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 305 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(H) Conveyance to Purchaser 161k305 k. Authority to Make. Most Cited  Cases Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 83 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k83 k. Authority After Expiration of Term. Most Cited Cases A deed made by a sheriff after his commission expires, for land sold by him on execution while he was in office is valid. Ejectment 142 k 9(3) 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k8 Title to Support Action 142k9 In General 142k9(3) k. Sufficiency of Title in General. Most Cited  Cases Where a demise is laid for one moiety from one lessor, and for the other moiety from another lessor, if the title of one of the lessors is not proved, still plaintiff may recover according to the title proved by the other lessor. Ejectment 142 k 110 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k110 k. Instructions. Most Cited Cases In ejectment, two separate demises were laid from two different lessors, each for a moiety. The plaintiff gave in evidence a patent to W. and H. One of the lessors claimed title through W.;  the other lessor, by a sale on execution against H. The plaintiff, to deduce title to the moiety from W., produced a deed purporting to have been executed by W., and also by G., as attorney for H.;  but there was no evidence conducing to prove the authority of G. It was held that the court was not bound to instruct the jury what effect the deed would have upon the title of the lessor claiming under the execution, in case the jury should be of opinion that the previous deed, executed by G., as attorney for H., was made by lawful authority. Evidence 157 k 374(4) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k374 Attesting  Witnesses 157k374(4) k. Certainty and Sufficiency of  Testimony. Most Cited Cases Where a subscribing witness does not remember the execution of the instrument, but states that his signature is genuine, and that it would not be placed there unless he had been called to witness it, this evidence is sufficient to render the instrument admissible. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *2 THIS is an appeal from a judgment rendered in an action of ejectment brought by the lessee of the appellees in the Court below. The declaration contains two separate demises of undivided moieties of the land in contest, in one of which Robert Trimble, Jesse Bledsoe, Samuel R. Combs and John Holder are lessors of the plaintiff; and in the other, John Hardwick is the lessor. The land seems to have been patented in the name of Matthew Walton and John Holder, and the title to one moiety whereof was claimed by the plaintiff in the Court below, through his lessor, Hardwick, by various intermediate transfers under Walton; and the title to the other moiety was claimed through the other lessors, by various intermediate transfers, and a sale under an execution against the estate of John Holder, deceased. In the progress of the trial in the Court below, the plaintiff there, to establish his lessor Hardwick's title, produced a deed purporting on its face to have been executed by Matthew Walton, and John Holder by his agent Christopher Greenup; and to prove its execution introduced James Garrard, one of the subscribing witnesses thereto, who said the signature of James Garrard to the deed was his handwriting, but he had no recollection of the execution of the deed by the parties thereto, and he could not say whether the name of Walton or that of Holder was written by Walton or Greenup, Holder's agent; but that it was always his practice to hear the acknowledgment of the parties to a deed before he subscribed his name as a witness, and that he did not believe he ever in any instance subscribed his name as a witness without hearing the acknowledgment of the parties to the execution of the deed. The defendants then moved the Court to reject the deed from going in evidence to the jury, because its execution was not sufficiently proven; but their motion was overruled, and the deed admitted as evidence. Whether, therefore, the Court erred in not rejecting the deed, seems properly to form the first point for consideration. That the execution of a deed may be proven by the oath of one witness only, does not admit of a doubt; and although the witness whose evidence was given in the present case, appears not to have attained a very vivid impression of the transaction, the circumstances detailed by him were certainly competent and abundantly satisfactory to establish the execution of the deed by Walton. To require more to be proven, would be not only prostrating the rules of evidence, but substituting a principle which in its consequences would inevitably tend to preclude all possible proof in relation to the execution of deeds of ancient date: for it cannot be supposed witnesses can at all times and at the most distant periods relate the particular circumstances of any occurrence whatever. But it was said in argument, that if the execution of the deed was sufficiently proven as to Walton, yet as their was no proof of Greenup's agency for Holder, the Court erred in not instructing the jury to disregard the deed as to Holder's moiety. *3 To this it need only be replied, that the plaintiff in the ejectment claimed Walton's moiety only through his lessor Hardwick, and as it was offered for the purpose only of establishing his right to that moiety, the Court properly admitted it without any instructions as to its efficacy. After all the evidence was gone through on the trial in the Court below, that Court, on the motion of the defendants there, refused to instruct the jury, that if they should be satisfied from the evidence that the deed from Walton and Holder was duly executed by both the grantors therein, that in that case the legal title to the land therein mentioned passed from both grantors, and that Holder's interest in the land which so passed by the deed was not subject thereafter to be sold by execution, either against Holder or his representatives. And whether that Court erred in withholding the instructions asked, presents the next question for determination. Without deciding what the decision of that Court should have been, had the evidence in any respect conduced to prove the execution of the deed by Holder, we are of opinion as no such evidence was produced, the Court properly withheld the instructions asked: for although either party in the progress of his cause has a right to the instructions of the Court on points of law applicable to a state of facts which the evidence conduces to prove, it is clear the Court is not bound to give instructions on mere abstract propositions; and as the motion of the defendant partakes of that character, it was properly overruled. The plaintiff in the ejectment, to establish a title to one moiety of the land in contest in his lessors, Robert Trimble, etc., having produced in evidence a copy of the decree, and the execution which issued thereon, and under which the sheriff of Bourbon sold the land; and also having produced the deed of conveyance executed by the sheriff after his term of office expired, the defendants in that Court moved the Court to instruct the jury that the deed from the sheriff was not good and valid, and that it conveyed no legal title to the land in contest; but the Court overruled their motion, and refused to give the instructions to the jury. In determining whether the Court decided correctly in overruling this motion of the defendants, we are led to examine the validity of the deed executed by the sheriff; and in making this examination two questions arise: First, is land liable to be sold under an execution which issues upon a decree in equity? and if it is, secondly, has the sheriff who makes the sale authority to convey after his term of office expires? As to the first question it will not be denied but that by the letter of the act of 1792, which first subjected lands to the payment of debts, that sales under writs of fieri facias were confined to the satisfaction of judgments. According to the rules of chancery practice, writs of fieri facias could not regularly issue upon decrees. The legislature however, aware of the mischiefs resulting to litigants in chancery, in consequence of writs of fieri facias not being allowable on decrees; to remedy the evil, by an act of 1796, authorized the issuing of the writs of fieri facias, and other writs of execution, upon decrees; and further provided, that all process which might so issue, should have the same operation, and possess the same force, to all intents and purposes, as similar process issued upon judgments. Whatever, therefore, may have been the legal effect of the act of 1792, before the passage of the act of 1796, it is clear that not only according to the equity, but by the express letter of the latter of those acts, lands may be now taken and sold by writs of fieri facias in satisfaction of decrees in chancery. For as writs of fieri facias before the passage of this act had the operation and possessed the power of selling lands in satisfaction of judgments: so since then similar writs have the operation, and possess the power of selling lands in satisfaction of decrees. *4 As then land may be taken and sold in satisfaction of decrees in chancery, by sheriffs, under writs of fieri facias, the question occurs, can the sheriff making the sale execute a deed of conveyance for the land sold, after his term of office expires? We are of opinion he may. The provisions of the act subjecting lands to the payment of debts, evidently require the deed of conveyance to be made by the sheriff who sells the land. That act, it is true, contains no express delegation of power to the sheriff to convey after his term of office expires, nor do we suppose such an express delegation of power was necessary to enable him to do so; for as the officer selling, is required to convey, the execution of the deed of conveyance thereby forms a necessary part of the execution of the writ; and as, according to the settled principles of the common law, he who begins the execution of a writ of fieri facias must end it, so now under the statute, he who sells must finish the execution by conveying. It was contended in argument, that as this principle of the common law grew out of the sale of chattels under execution, it should not be made to apply to the sale of lands under the statute. To this it may be answered, that it was owing to the nature of the writ, and not the description of the property upon which it operated, that gave rise to the principle; and as the legislature, in subjecting lands to the payment of debts, have adopted that description of writ whose qualities gave rise to the principle, it is but fair to presume they intended the sheriff who might take land under a fieri facias, should, according to this principle, sell and convey the same, though his term of office should expire before the sale or conveyance. That the legislature so intended, is, moreover, further manifest, by their failure to provide for the successor in office to complete the execution of a fieri facias which might be levied on lands, and not sold by his predecessor for with a knowledge of the term for which sheriffs hold their office, the legislature must have foreseen the probable occurrences of various case where the sheriff levying an execution on lands could not make sale thereof during his continuance in office; and it cannot be supposed they intended to leave those cases unprovided for; and as they have not authorized the successor in such cases to complete the executions, the inference is irresistible, that they intended that principle of the common law to prevail which makes it the duty of the sheriff who levies, to complete the execution of the writ. But it was also urged in argument, that as the legislature has since the passage of the act of 1792, provided for the conveyance of lands by the sheriff in office, where the sale may have been made by a predecessor in office, they have thereby repealed any authority which the sheriff selling, might otherwise have had under the former act. If we are correct in the construction which we have given to the act of 1792, the subsequent act cannot in any wise affect the case. That act contains no repealing clause, and neither the reasons which induced the legislature to enact it, nor the purposes of substantial justice, require it should be construed to operate as a repeal of the act of 1792, or any of its provisions. *5 Upon the whole, we are of opinion the sheriff had authority to convey, and that the deed executed by him, is valid, and transfers a good title. It remains, therefore, to decide whether the Court below finally erred in refusing to instruct the jury upon the motion of the defendants in that Court, that if they should find title to one moiety of the land in contest in one of the lessors of the plaintiff, and should find no title to the other moiety in the other lessors, that they should find for the defendants. We can perceive no objection to the decision of the Court in overruling this motion. It is certainly the settled doctrine of the English Courts, and has been repeatedly recognized by this Court, that a plaintiff in ejectment is not bound to show title to all the land claimed by his declaration, but may recover according to the extent of his title made out at the trial. According to this doctrine, it would seem to follow the plaintiff in the Court below might recover upon the title of one of his lessors, unless he is prevented by the application of some other principle. It is true, cases have occurred, where owing to the variance between the proof and the allegations in the declaration, a recovery has not been allowed, even according to the title; as for example, where the declaration contained a joint demise by two, and the evidence proved a title in one only; there, because the expression demised, in the plural, implicated an interest in both the lessors, it was held the proof did not correspond with the title alleged, and the plaintiff could not consequently recover. But as the decision in the case just mentioned grew out of the artificial import of a joint demise, and turned on the variance between the proof and the allegation in the declaration, that case can have no application to the one before us: for in the present case plaintiff has properly declared on separate demises; and although the jury might not be of opinion he had manifested a title in each of his lessors, there can be no substantial objection to his recovery according to the title which they should be of opinion he had proven. The judgment of the Court below must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Allen v. Trimble 4 Bibb 21, 7 Ky. 21, 1815 WL 638 (Ky.), 7 Am.Dec. 726 END OF DOCUMENT
