(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 310,  8 Ky. 310 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1374 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. James Cox et al. v. Nicholas Osburne et al. Oct. 9, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 210 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(B) As to Third Persons in General 400k210 k. Title as Against Third Persons. Most Cited  Cases A purchaser from a trustee, with notice of the trust, holds subject to the trust;  but if he has also a prior equity, his title will be protected to that extent. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Cox having under a deed of conveyance from Vanmeter, recovered judgment in an action of ejectment against Osburne and Hobbs, they filed their bill with injunction, asserting a better equity through a certain James Adams, to whom they charge that Vanmeter, before he conveyed to Cox, gave his obligation to convey the land, and as they alleged Cox to have had notice of their equity, before he obtained a conveyance, they insist he should be compelled to surrender the title. The court below, on a final hearing, being of opinion that Osborne and Hobbs were entitled to relief, decreed Cox to convey, and from that decree he has appealed to this court. Assuming the fact to be, as the bill of the complainants alleges, that Cox derived his claim to the land by his purchase from Vanmeter, there could be no doubt, as that purchase must have been subsequent to the bond given by Vanmeter to Adams, through whom the complainants claim, and as Cox had notice of Adams' claim before he obtained a deed from Vanmeter, but that Cox ought to be compelled to surrender the title. A purchaser receiving a title from a trustee, with notice of the trust, holds the title subject to the trust. But if the purchaser holds an equity prior to the equity of the cestui que trust, his title will be protected to the extent of his prior equity. But from the answer of Cox, although he admits that he obtained the title from Vanmeter, he alleges that the conveyance was made, not by his purchase from Vanmeter, but through Smily, to whom Vanmeter, by a contract previously made to locate the land, was bound to convey; and as the evidence in the cause satisfactorily proves the allegations of Cox's answer in that respect, he has sufficiently shewn, through Smily, the locator, an equity prior in date to that of Adams, and, consequently, to the extent of that equity, although he may have had notice of the complainant's claim before he obtained a conveyance, he ought not to be compelled to surrender his title. But, as from the evidence and exhibits, Smily must be considered as having been entitled to an undivided half of the land only, Cox, as deriving title through him, can not protect himself in a greater portion; but for the one moiety, he ought to be compelled to convey to the complainants. The circumstance of Vanmeter being jointly interested with Smily, when he gave the obligation to Adams, can not have a??horized him, without the assent of Smily, to dispose of his interest. He might, it is true, as he was invested with the legal title in severalty, have conveyed it, either to Adams or any other; but, then, if those to whom the conveyance was made, should be shewn to have had notice of Smily's claim, as Vanmeter held the title subject to his equity, so the alienee would also be subject to it. *2 As Cox has, therefore, shewn a prior equity to one moiety of the land, the decree of the court below, compelling him to convey the whole to the complainants, must be reversed with cost, and the cause remanded to that court, for further proceeding to be had, according to the principles of this opinion. Hughes, for appellant; Wickliffe and B. Hardin, contra. Ky.App. 1818. Cox v. Osburne 1 A.K.Marsh. 310, 8 Ky. 310, 1818 WL 1374 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
