(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 109,  19 Ky. 109 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1207 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Surlott v. Beddow. Nov. 16, 1825. *1 Frauds against Creditors. Statutes. Pleading. Error. ERROR TO THE GARRARD CIRCUIT; JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGE. West Headnotes Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 176(3) 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186II Rights and Liabilities of Parties and Purchasers 186II(A) Original Parties 186k173 Mutual Rights and Liabilities of Parties 186k176 Enforcement of Executory  Contract 186k176(3) k. Enforcement of Trust for Grantor.  Most Cited Cases Where property is sold by a debtor to defraud creditors, and is nevertheless seized and sold on execution against him, the vendee cannot recover, in assumpsit, the value thereof against the vendor. Pleading 302 k 136 302 Pleading 302III Responses or Responsive Pleadings in General 302III(D) Matter in Avoidance 302k136 k. Matter Available Under General Issue or General  Denial. Most Cited Cases A special plea, though it amounts only to the general issue, is good. Appeal and Error 30 k 882(6) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(C) Parties Entitled to Allege Error 30k881 Estoppel to Allege Error 30k882 Error Committed or Invited by Party  Complaining 30k882(6) k. Issues, Proof, and Variance. Most  Cited Cases If a party tenders an immaterial issue, having had the full benefit of it as a material one, he cannot afterwards object to the proceedings on account of his own irregularities, nor have his own appeal dismissed or the judgment reversed on account of defects in his own pleadings, after he has had an opportunity to try his case upon its merits, and could again have a hearing upon the appeal. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action of assumpsit, brought in the circuit court by Surlott. The declaration contains two counts, each of which is for money paid, laid out and advanced, by Surlott, for the use of Beddow, and at his special instance and request. The declaration of Surlott. Beddow filed a special plea, alleging that both counts in the declaration are for one and the same thing, and stating, that previous to the supposed assumpsits in the declaration alleged, he (Beddow) was indebted to a certain Archibald Shanks in the sum of $____, due by note; that upon that demand, Shanks brought suit against him, in the Lincoln circuit court, and finally recovered judgment therefor; that about the time the judgment was recovered by Shanks, it was proposed by Surlott, that he, Beddow, for the purpose of preventing his property from being taken to satisfy Shank's debt, should execute to Surlott a bill of sale for all of his negroes; and that accordingly, to effect that purpose, and without any other consideration, Beddow executed a bill of his negroes to Surlott. The plea further alleges, that Shanks, not regarding the bill of sale, afterwards caused an execution to issue upon his judgment, and had the same levied upon the negroes mentioned in the bill of sale, and upon inquiry before a jury, raised by the sheriff, to inquire into the right of property in the negroes, the bill of sale was found by the jury to be fraudulent, and the negroes subject to the execution; that Beddow then tendered and entered into a replevin bond, with Surlott and Morehead his sureties, for the debt of Shanks, and the negroes were restored to him by the sheriff; and that after the replevin bond became payable, Shanks caused another execution to issue thereon against the estate of Beddow, Surlott and Morehead; and that in virtue thereof, the sheriff seized upon one of the negroes mentioned in the bill of sale to Surlott, and sold the same for the sum of $____, and applied the sale money to the satisfaction of Shanks' execution. This sum, the plea avers, constitutes the demand of Surlott, contained in his declaration, and that it is founded upon no other consideration than that of the fraudulent bill of sale by Beddow to Surlott, as aforesaid. *2 Special plea of Beddow. Surlott replied, admitting the execution of the replevin bond by Beddow, with Surlott and Morehead his sureties, to secure Shanks' debt, and alleging that a fieri facias issued upon that bond against their estate, and was levied upon the negro boy mentioned in the plea, which had been previously conveyed by Beddow to Surlott, and the possession thereof delivered to Surlott, which negro, whilst the property of Surlott, was afterwards sold by the sheriff, under the said execution, for the sum of five hundred dollars; and that the said Surlott, on the day of sale aforesaid, did pay over to the sheriff, as surety for Beddow, the further sum of two hundred and nine dollars and fifty cents, the balance of the amount of Shanks' execution, both of which sums were received by the sheriff in discharge of the amount due Shanks, under his replevin bond and execution, &c. Replication of Surlott. Beddow rejoined by denying that the negro was in the possession of, or belonged to Surlott, when he was taken by the sheriff in execution, and alleging that he was then the property of Beddow, and as his property, taken by the sheriff and sold to satisfy the debt of Shanks, &c. The rejoinder concluded by tendering an issue to the country, which was joined by Surlott. Rejoinder by Beddow. Upon the trial of this issue, the jury returned a verdict of $209.50, for Surlott, and judgment was thereupon rendered by the court against Beddow. Jury, verdict and judgment for Surlott. To reverse that judgment, Surlott has prosecuted this writ of error. Whether we test this case by the precise and technical rules which govern pleadings in actions at law, or consider it with an eye to the justice and equity of the case, the result will be equally unfavorable to the right of Surlott to a reversal of the judgment. One to whom debtor disposes of his property to defraud his creditors, which is notwithstanding seized and sold by them can not recover of the debtor the value of the property so subjected. Assuming the allegations of Beddow's plea to be true, it is perfectly clear Surlott can not be entitled to recover the price for which the negro was sold under the execution of Shanks; for although the negro is alleged to have been transferred by Beddow to Surlott before the sale of the sheriff, the transfer is stated to have been made with the intent to defraud Shanks, who was a creditor of Beddow, and in equity and good conscience, Surlott can not have derived, under that transfer, any right to indemnity against the execution of Shanks. The demand asserted by Surlott for the price for which the negro sold under the execution, must, therefore, be founded in the fraudulent transfer, and upon well settled principles, can not be sustained in the equitable action of assumpsit, which admits of any and every defence that goes to show that in moral justice he ought not to recover. But admitting the facts alleged in the plea to be such as might defeat a recovery by Surlott for the price of the negro, it was contended, that instead of pleading specially, Beddow ought to have employed those facts in defence, upon the general issue. It would, no doubt, have been competent for Beddow to have introduced evidence of the facts alleged in his plea, upon the trial of the general issue; and generally speaking, a defendant was not, at common law, permitted to plead specially, matter which might be proved on the general issue. It was not, however, because the facts, in point of law, were insufficient to bar the action, that the defendant was not allowed to plead the matter specially; but he was forbid doing so by an artificial and technical rule of the common law. Though inadmissible, a special plea of that sort was good, after verdict. The objection went only to form, and was unavailing, except by special demurrer. But in this country, we have a statute doing away objections to the form of pleading, and nothing is now an available objection to a plea to the merits, which, prior to that statute, formed a cause of special demurrer only. *3 That a special plea amounts to the general issue, was an objection on special demurrer; but now, by the act of 1811, 2 Dig. L. K. 262, there can be no such objection. The allegations of Beddow's plea must, therefore, be admitted to be sufficient in point of law, to bar the action, and unless avoided by the replication of Surlott, we can not consistently with the strict rules of pleading, interfere for the purpose of arresting the judgment, at the instance of Surlott. Does the replication, then, contain sufficient matter to avoid the legal effect of Beddow's plea? We think not. From the remarks which have been already made upon the plea, it will be perceived that the gist of Beddow's defence consists in the fraud alleged to have been committed in the transfer of the negro to Surlott, and if so, it was unquestionably essential to the validity of Surlott's replication, that it should have traversed the allegation of fraud, contained in the plea. In that respect, however, the replication is entirely silent; and, of course, it can not be admitted to contain sufficient matter in avoidance of the plea. Replication deemed insufficient. Upon the supposition that the replication of Surlott is insufficient, we might, with propriety, dispense with any further remarks upon the further proceedings in the cause by the court below; for it would be contrary to the settled doctrine of law, to reverse the judgment at the instance of Surlott, for errors growing out of the trial of the immaterial issue, which was caused by his own fault, in making an insufficient replication. The party committing the first fault in pleading, which led to the issue that was tried, can not have the judgment reversed in this court for any subsequent error. But as the record contains all the evidence which was introduced upon the trial, we have taken the trouble to look into the merits of the contest, and we have no hesitation in saying, that, casting aside the influence of technical rules, and regarding the justice of the case only, the verdict of the jury is as favorable to Surlott as the evidence will justify. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Turner, for plaintiff; Barry, for defendant. Ky.App. 1825. Surlott v. Beddow 3 T.B.Mon. 109, 19 Ky. 109, 1825 WL 1207 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
