(Cite as: 4 Bibb 61,  7 Ky. 61 (Ky.),  1815 WL 659 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. White and Voorhies v. M'Bride. May 25, 1815. *1 Persons conscientiously scrupulous of bearing arms, cannot be fined by a court-martial for not attending the militia musters. The legislature cannot collect the equivalent for personal service by way of fine for non-attendance at musters. West Headnotes Militia 259 k 5 259 Militia 259k5 k. Duty of Service. Most Cited Cases As the constitution excuses from bearing arms those who have conscientious scruples on the subject, a fine for not attending a militia muster cannot be imposed on such persons. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is a writ of error brought to reverse a judgment of the Mercer Circuit Court entered against the plaintiffs in an action of replevin prosecuted by them in that Court to be restored to certain species of property taken from their possession as the agents or heads of the society of people denominated Shakers or Friends, by the defendant as deputy sheriff of Mercer county, in virtue of militia fines assessed against various members of the said society, for their defaults in not attending musters, and who by the tenets and principles of their faith and the rules established for the religious government of their society, were respectively forbid performing militia duty, and at the time of their respective defaults entertained conscientious scruples against bearing arms. The free exercise of the rights of conscience, is not only maintained by various provisions in our constitution, but by a clause in the 28th section of the 3d article of that instrument those are excused from bearing arms who entertain conscientious scruples against it. It is true by another clause in the same section of the constitution the freemen of this Commonwealth are required to be armed and disciplined for its defense. Those, however, who have scruples of conscience against bearing arms we apprehend are not included among the number to be disciplined for the defense of the country; for as they are expressly exempt from bearing arms, it would be vain and nugatory to require they should be disciplined. Notwithstanding, however, those having scruples of conscience are not required to bear arms, the constitution has further provided they shall pay an equivalent for personal service. The personal service thus recognized by the constitution, and for which an equivalent is to be paid, a majority of the Court do not think implies the attendance at the usual company, battalion, or regimental musters. The attendance at those musters is not required as a service to the country, but for the purpose of disciplining the militia, preparatory to the performance of service whenever it shall be required either by the invasion of an enemy or otherwise. If then we are correct in supposing the attendance at those musters is not such service as according to the principles of the constitution an equivalent is to be given by those having conscientious scruples against bearing arms, it results the fines assessed by the court-martial, for which the property of the plaintiffs was taken, are repugnant to that instrument, and cannot be maintained under the authority of any law. But were we mistaken in supposing the attendance at those musters is a service for which an equivalent may be executed, still we should all concur in the opinion the law under which the fines were imposed in the present instance, is repugnant to the constitution: for in subjecting those having scruples of conscience against bearing arms to the payment of that equivalent, it should not be done under the authority of laws imposing fines for the failure to attend musters, but under some legislative provision ascertaining that equivalent and providing for its collection. *2 The circumstance of the court-martial having assessed those fines cannot affect the case: for as the persons against whom those fines were assessed, are protected from militia duty, and cannot be subjected to fines for a failure to perform that duty, under the laws providing for the disciplining of the militia, it results, according to the case of Wise v. Withers, determined by the Supreme Court of the United States  (3 Cranch 331), that the court-martial has no jurisdiction over those persons, and consequently its decisions cannot affect them. The judgment of the Court below is, therefore, erroneous, and must be reversed with costs; the cause remanded, and judgment entered in that Court according to this opinion. Ky.App. 1815. White v. McBride 4 Bibb 61, 7 Ky. 61, 1815 WL 659 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
