(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 145,  8 Ky. 145 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1187 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robert Weathers et ux. v. Joseph Helm. Nov. 29, 1817. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A. "enters 1,500 acres on C. creek, adjoining B.'s survey on the west, running north with his line, thence west, thence south, to C.'s pre-emption, thence with Helm's line north," etc.  Held, that the entry should adjoin the survey, and not the entry of Helm, which was doubtless the intention of the locator, as he called for the lines of other surveys which were recorded, and used similar language in relation to that of Helm, which was not recorded. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from the court below, compelling the appellants to surrender their elder title, derived under an adverse claim, to the appellee, who asserted a superior equity, under the following entry: "February 3, 1783, Joseph Helm enters 1,500 acres in part of a military warrant, No. 1320, on the waters of Clear Creek, adjoining Allen's survey on the west, running north with his line, thence west; thence south to Boone's pre-emption; thence with Helm's line north; thence east to the beginning." An entry calling to adjoin the lines of two surveys which were notorious, and the line of another, who had a survey, but unrecorded and not notorious, shall be construed to adjoin the line of the third survey, and not the line of the entry. In 1774 there was surveyed for James Allen, with lines to the cardinal points, 2,000 acres of military land, in the forks of Clear Creek; and on the 8th of March, 1781, there was surveyed for Squire Boone, upon Clear Creek, by virtue of a certificate for settlement, granted to Benjamin Vancleave, 400 acres; and on the same day, 1,000 acres, adjoining the same, by virtue of a pre-emption warrant. The pre-emption survey thus made for Boone, presents a north side, and forms a north-east corner, but a few poles distant from the south-west corner of Allen's military survey. These surveys are abundantly proven by the evidence in the cause, to have possessed general notoriety at the date of Helm's entry; so that there can be no doubt but the maker of that entry intended to appropriate land lying to the west of Allen and north of Boone; but as the entry of Helm also calls to run with Helm's line, and William Helm is shewn to have had a survey of 637 acres adjoining Boone on the north, but which was not, at that time, of record, and is not now shewn to have been notorious, a question arises, whether the entry should be construed to adjoin the survey of William Helm, or his entry? And if to adjoin the survey, as it was not of record nor notorious, can the entry of Joseph Helm, in consequence of the call to adjoin thereto, be sustained? We are of opinion the entry should be construed to adjoin the survey and not the entry of William Helm. From the circumstance of the locator calling for the lines of other surveys of record, and using similar language in relation to that of Helm, it is most reasonable to infer, that he intended to adjoin his line also, as actually surveyed. *2 Thus considering the call for Helm, we can but accord with the court below in sustaining the entry. For although the survey is not shewn to have been notorious, yet it is apparent from the calls of the entry, that the locator intended to adjoin a survey of Helm, lying to the north and adjoining of Boone; and as no other survey is shewn to have existed at the date of the entry calculated in any manner to mislead an enquirer, we apprehend no reasonable difficulty could have occurred in ascertaining the survey intended. We also accord with the court below in the manner they have directed the entry should be surveyed, by beginning at a point on Allen's line, due east from the north-east corner of Helm; thence west, passing the north-east corner of Helm, and with his line to his iorth-west corner; thence south with his line to Boone's line; thence with Boone's line west to his north-west corner, and thence north as far as by extending a line east to Allen's survey, and with his line to the beginning, will include the quantity. The decree must, therefore, be affirmed with cost. Talbot, Pope and Littell, for appellants, Hardin, for appellee. Ky.App. 1817. Weathers v. Helm 1 A.K.Marsh. 145, 8 Ky. 145, 1817 WL 1187 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
