(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 435,  8 Ky. 435 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1021 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robert E. Carstarphen v. John D. Graves. Apr. 9, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 251 343 Sales 343VI Warranties 343k247 Warranty Distinguished from Other Grounds of Liability 343k251 k. Misrepresentation or Fraud. Most Cited  Cases The knowledge and concealment of unsoundness in property sold do not imply a promise of soundness, and thus convert a tort into a contract. Action 13 k 41 13 Action 13III Joinder, Splitting, Consolidation, and Severance 13k39 Joinder of Causes of Action at Common Law 13k41 k. Forms of Action. Most Cited  Cases Counts ex delicto cannot be joined in the same declaration with counts ex contractu. Action 13 k 41 13 Action 13III Joinder, Splitting, Consolidation, and Severance 13k39 Joinder of Causes of Action at Common Law 13k41 k. Forms of Action. Most Cited  Cases A count on the warranty of soundness in the sale of a slave cannot be joined with one for fraud in such sale. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This action was brought in the court below by Graves, to recover damages for the sale, to him, by Carstarphen, of an unsound negro. Graves having obtained a verdict and judgment in that court, Carstarphen has brought the cause here by an appeal. Various errors are assigned; but we have thought proper to notice those only which involve the propriety of joining the several counts set forth in the declaration. Without reciting with more certainty those counts, they may be said to contain two distinct and substantial causes of action--one on the warranty of soundness, and the other for a fraud in the sale of the negro. Thus considering the declaration, it clearly follows, that the judgment can not be sustained; for it is incontrovertibly settled, that tort and contract can not be joined in the same declaration. 3 Wilson, 354. Tort and contract can not be joined in one declaration. But it is contended, that although fraud is alleged in Carstarphen's knowing and concealing from Graves the unsoundness of the negro, yet it is urged, that as Carstarphen is moreover charged with having represented the negro, at the time of the sale, as being sound, the law implies a promise and hence it is insisted that a count upon that implied undertaking may be properly joined with a count upon the warranty. The doctrme comended for cannot, however, be admitted to be correct. It has been repeatedly held by this court, and no doubt in strict accordance with the principles of the common law, that, upon the sale of a chattel, the law implies no promise of its soundness. For a concealment of any defect, the vendor is, no doubt, responsible; but his accountability can not, and is not, produced, from any promise or undertaking, which, by implication of law, he is supposed to have made, but from the tort involved in the commission of a fraud in the sale. *2 The knowledge and concealment of unsoundness in property sold, does not imply a promise of soundness and thus convert a tort into a contract. A vendor thus situated is nevertheless liable to the action of the vendee--but it is on the deceit or fraud of concealing a known defect. If then we are correct in supposing that the declaration erroneously contains causes of action, both in tort and contract, it results that the court below erred in overruling the demurrer of Carstarphen to the declaration. The judgment of that court must consequently be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and the plaintiff there, if he should ask ??ave to do so, have permission to amend his declaration, and such other and further proceedings had as may be consistent with this opinion. Pope and Hardin for appellant, Bibb contra. Ky.App. 1819. Carstarphen v. Graves 1 A.K.Marsh. 435, 8 Ky. 435, 1819 WL 1021 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
