(Cite as: Litt.Sel.Cas. 271,  16 Ky. 271 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1204 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Holderman, &c. v. Brasfield. Oct. 5, 1821. *1 FROM THE CLARK CIRCUIT COURT. THE HON. JAMES CLARK SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 125(2) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k125 Amercement and Other Summary Remedies Against Officers 353k125(2) k. Trial or Hearing, Judgment, and Review. Most  Cited Cases On motion against the sheriff to recover the amount of an execution on the ground of failure to return it, an amendment of the return setting up that the execution was not returned because it had been lost a few days after it was received, and that the sheriff had forgotten it was in his possession until it was found by him the day it was returned, cannot be admitted to affect the judgment which should otherwise be rendered against him, since he cannot be permitted to thus make evidence in his own favor. WICKLIFFE and HAGGIN, for appellants; no attorney for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was a motion made by Holderman, &c. to recover against Brasfield the amount of an execution, together with thirty per centum damages on the amount thereof, under the act of 31st January, 1811, relative to sheriffs, (2 Digest Laws Ky. 1143.) Brasfield was admitted to be the deputy sheriff, and surety of Thomas Scott, the principal, and it was agreed that judgment might be renedered by the court against Brasfield, if, from the evidence, judgment could be rendered against Scott. On the motion, Holderman, &c. read in evidence a writ of fieri facias, which issued from the clerk's office of the Clark circuit court, in their favor, against the estate of Amos Cast, for $65 22, with interest thereon from the 4th of August, 1818, until paid, directed to the sheriff of Clark county, and the return thereon in the following words: "No estate found before the return day of this process. James Brasfield, D. S. for Thomas Scott, Sh'ff. C. C." And proved that the fieri facias came to the hands of Brasfield, as Scott's deputy, and that the execution was not returned to the office until after the expiration of one month from the return ??ay. A sheriff can not make what he may choose to insert in his return by way of excuse or apology for not doing his duty, evidence in his favor. The defendant, Brasfield, then moved the court, and obtained leave to amend his return in the following words: "And this execution was not returned by me, agreeable to the command thereof, nor in one month after the return day, because I had lost it a few days afer it came to my hands, and forgot it had been in my possession, until it was found by me on the day it was returned by me to the office." James Brasfield, D. S. for Thomas Scott, S. C. C." The defendant introduced no other evidence, and the court gave judgment against Holderman, &c. The principle is not perceived, on which the decision of the circuit court can be sustained. Abstracting from the case the amendment which the defendant was permitted to make to his return on the execution, there could be no doubt but judgment ought to have been rendered against the defendant. The case would then come literally within the act of assembly under which the motion was made, and shows conclusively the plaintiff's right to a judgment for the amount of the execution and damages. And the amendment which the defendant was permitted to make, can not be admitted to affect the judgment, which should otherwise have been rendered against him. There is no law recognizing such a return as the amendment purports to make, and if made when the execution was first returned, could not, without the aid of extraneous evidence, have excused the defendant for his failure in not returning the execution within the time prescribed by the act. The amended return contains barely the apology of the sheriff, for not performing his official duty, and must be established by other evidence than that of his own making. *2 The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and judgment there entered against Brasfield, consistent with the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1821. Holderman v. Brasfield Litt.Sel.Cas. 271, 16 Ky. 271, 1821 WL 1204 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
