(Cite as: 2 Bibb 570,  5 Ky. 570 (Ky.),  1812 WL 625 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lewis v. Davis. Spring Term, 1812. *1 On a joint and several obligation, the obligee may prosecute several actions against each or a joint action against both; if he elects to bring a joint action, he cannot dismiss as to one and proceed against the other. Upon a joint and several obligation, the plaintiff sued from Jefferson circuit a writ against one in Jefferson, and against the othe to Nelson; if h?? dismisses the sui?? as to the defendant in Jefferson that Court has no jurisdiction to proceed against the defendant resident in Nelson. West Headnotes Courts 106 k 21 106 Courts 106I Nature, Extent, and Exercise of Jurisdiction in General 106I(A) In General 106k21 k. Mode of acquiring or exercising jurisdiction in  general. Most Cited Cases Upon a joint and several obligation, the plaintiff sued, from Jefferson circuit court, a writ against one defendant in Jefferson county, and against the other living in Nelson county, and before trial dismissed the suit as to the defendant living in Jefferson county. It was held that the court had no jurisdiction to proceed against the defendant living in Nelson county. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. Judge WALLACE absent. DAVIS brought an action of covenant, on a joint and several obligation, in the Jefferson Circuit Court, against Jesse Carter, a resident of Jefferson county, and Joseph Lewis, a resident of Nelson county. Writs issued directed to Jefferson and Nelson counties; that to Jefferson was served on Carter, that to Nelson was served on Lewis. Judgment by default was had on the rules against Carter and Lewis, and a writ of inquiry awarded. Carter afterward appeared in Court, had the office judgment and writ of inquiry as to him set aside, and pleaded to the action, upon which plea issue was joined. Davis then dismissed his suit as to Carter, and had the writ of inquiry executed against Lewis, and recovered a judgment for $93 19 cents, and costs; to reverse which judgment, Lewis has prosecuted this writ of error. The only necessary inquiry in this cause is, whether Davis proceeded correctly in dismissing his suit against Carter, and taking judgment against Lewis. In a joint action, on a joint or joint and several obligation, the plaintiff suing in the county where either of the defendants reside, may have a writ issued directed to the sheriff of the county where any other defendant resides, and proceed as if all of the defendants resided in the same county. But in actions on several obligations, writs cannot issue directed to any other county than that in which it issues. The obligee in a joint and several obligation, may prosecute several actions against each of the obligors, or a joint action against the whole. When he elects to sue severally, the proceedings in every respect should be had as on a several obligation, and the residence of one obligor cannot give the Court jurisdiction as to another. In actions on joint obligations, the plaintiff cannot dismiss his suit as to one, and proceed to judgment against another. Whenever an obligee in a joint and several obligation, prosecutes a joint action, he should be compelled to proceed as in actions on joint obligations only; or upon his waiving to proceed jointly, and proceeds in his action against one only, he should thereby subject himself to the rules applicable to actions on several obligations. *2 Had Davis brought suit against Lewis in a several action, it is manifest the Jefferson Circuit Court could not have entertained jurisdiction of the cause. His having commenced a joint action, against Carter and Lewis, can place him in no better situation, after having dismissed the suit as to Carter. By dismissing the action as to Carter, he has waived all advantages of a joint action. He should not be permitted to proceed jointly for the purpose of attaching jurisdiction to the Jefferson Circuit Court, and then to avoid defense, dismiss his suit in part, and yet retain the advantages of a joint action. We think, therefore, that the Circuit Court of Jefferson had no jurisdiction to proceed further in the cause after Davis dismissed his action against Carter. Judgment reversed, etc. Ky.App. 1812. Lewis v. Davis 2 Bibb 570, 5 Ky. 570, 1812 WL 625 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
