(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 247,  10 Ky. 247 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1050 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lewis' Heirs v. Ringo. Apr. 7, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE GREENUP CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 39 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k39 k. Real Property and Estates and Interests Therein.  Most Cited Cases A lease for years is assets in the hands of the administrators. Executors and Administrators 162 k 124 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k123 Coexecutors and Coadministrators 162k124 k. Joint or Several Authority. Most Cited  Cases A lease for years in the hands of administrators may be assigned by one of them, so as to bind the other. Ejectment 142 k 21 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k21 k. Demand or Notice to Quit, or Other Conditions Precedent. Most Cited Cases An intruder is not entitled to notice to quit. Evidence 157 k 374(6) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k374 Attesting  Witnesses 157k374(6) k. Necessity and Admissibility of  Evidence. Most Cited Cases An instrument under seal, to which is affixed the name of a subscribing witness, can be proved only by such witness, unless it appear that his attendance cannot be procured. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This ejectment was brought in the circuit court by the heirs of Lewis, to recover the possession of a turnpike gate, on the public way, leading from the mouth of Triplet's creek, on Licking river, and from Wheeler's mill on Licking river, and from Lewis' mill, on Fox's creek, to the mouth of Big Sandy river. The trial was had on the general issue, and verdict and judgment recovered by Ringo, and al. the defendants in that court. The turnpike appears to have been established under an act of the legislature of this country of the 25th of January, 1811, and by the commissioners therein named, let to the ancestor of the plaintiffs for the term of twenty years; and on the trial in the circuit court, for the purpose of showing themselves entitled to the possession, the defendants offered in evidence a sealed writing, purporting to have been signed by the name of Moses Kibby for himself and Eliza Lewis, the administrators of the plaintiffs' ancestor, and transferring the turnpike gate to the defendant Duitt for the residue of the term, which had not then expired under the contract made by the decedent, with the commissioners appointed by the act of 1811: And notwithstanding the defendants' objections, the writing was permitted to go in evidence to the jury, without proof of its execution by the subscribing witness, although the subscribing witness was proven to reside within the jurisdiction of the court. *2 An instrument in writing though sealed should not be given in evidence unless proved by the subscribing witnesses, if they are within the jurisdiction of the court. In that admission we are of opinion the circuit court erred. From the circumstance of the subscribing witness having attested the writing, he must be presumed to know the facts attending the transaction better than any stranger, and ought, upon settled rules of evidence, to have been introduced to prove its execution before the writing was permitted to be used in evidence. After the evidence was gone through, the court instructed the jury, that the plaintiffs could not maintain their action unless the defendants had six months notice to quit the possession of the turnpike gate before the commencement of the ejectment. This court are unable to perceive any application which the doctrine of notice to quit the possession, can have to the present contest. If the writing admitted in evidence, were in fact executed by the administrators, it is obvious the action can not be sustained by the plaintiff. The ancestor of the plaintiffs gained but a term for years in the gate under his contract with the commissioners; and that term, at his death, might, unquestionably, be transferred by his administrators. It is true, the writing appears to be signed by Kibby, one of the administrators, for himself and his co-administratrix, and Kibby may not have been specially authorized by his co-administratrix to sign the writing for her. But it can not be important whether, or not, he acted under a special authority from her; for, as joint administrators, they must be regarded in law as one person, and the act of either, in respect to the administration, is as valid as if it had been the act of both. None but a tenant is entitled to notice to quit; an intruder is not. A lease for years is assets in the hands of the admrs and may by them be assigned, and if there be a plurality, the assignment of one binds the others. But if the writing were not executed by either of the administrators, the defendant, Duitt, can not have become tenant to them, and it is only in the case of tenancy, that aotice to quit is ever necessary. The bill of exceptions states that suit has been brought to recover from the defendants, rent from the time they have held the possession of the gate, but that circumstance can not make the defendant tenants if they were not otherwise so,, nor can it require notice to quit, if the defendants were not otherwise entitled to it. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1821. Lewis' Heirs v. Ringo 3 A.K.Marsh. 247, 10 Ky. 247, 1821 WL 1050 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
