(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 66,  10 Ky. 66 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1159 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Logan's Adm'rs v. Troutman's Ex'or et al. Dec. 1, 1820. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 265 162 Executors and Administrators 162VI Claims Against Estate 162VI(E) Priorities and Payment 162k265 k. Claims of Executor or Administrator. Most Cited  Cases An administrator has a right to retain a reasonable sum for his trouble in administering the assets, even against specialty creditors, as well as against distributees. Executors and Administrators 162 k 281 162 Executors and Administrators 162VI Claims Against Estate 162VI(E) Priorities and Payment 162k281 k. Improper Payments. Most Cited Cases Where because of an administrator's improper application of funds of the estate to payment of claims over which another claim was entitled to preference, there were not enough funds remaining to satisfy such preferred claim, the administrator is liable for the deficiency. Executors and Administrators 162 k 513(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XI Accounting and Settlement 162XI(E) Stating, Settling, Opening, and Review 162k512 Operation and Effect 162k513 In  General 162k513(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases An administrator's account, settled with the county court, is prima facie evidence in favor of the administrator, without the vouchers. Evidence 157 k 341 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k341 k. Official Documents, Records, and Proceedings in  General. Most Cited Cases Where an administrator's account is settled with the county court and recorded, a copy of the record is admissible. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 This was an action brought by the administrators of Logan, to recover from the executors of Troutman and the administrator of Griffin, the amount of an obligation executed by the testator, Troutman, and the intestate, Griffin, to the administrator of Logan. Several pleas were pleaded; and, among others, each of the defendants pleaded, separately plene administrarit, and issues were joined to the country on each plea. To show that he had fully administered the estate of his intestate, the administrator of Griffin offered in evidence a copy of a settlement made by him with the county court in relation to the estate of his intestate; but the court being of opinion it was inadmissible, unless accompanied with the vouchers therein referred to, excluded the copy from going in evidence to the jury. This court cannot concur with the circuit court in excluding the copy of the settlement. The settlement, no doubt, is not conclusive against any person who was not party or privy thereto; but as the law has conferred upon county courts cognizance of the settlement of decedents' estates, whenever they may have concluded such a settlement, it must, in all courts, where it may either directly or collaterally come in question, be considered prima facie true, and without the aid of the original vouchers, by which the settlement is made, admissible evidence. And as the original settlement would be admissible, as it appears to have been admitted to record in the county court, the copy should have been permitted to go to the jury. An administrator's account settled with the county court, is prima facie evidence in favor of the administrator without the vouchers; and if recorded, the copy of the record is admissable, but the settlement is not conclusive against those who were not parties or privies thereto. In the further progress of the cause, the administrator gave in evidence, however, the original settlement, together with the vouchers therein referred to--whereupon the plaintiff introduced parol evidence to prove that the administrator had notice of his demand before he paid the open accounts charged in the settlement, and for which he obtained a credit in his settlement with the county court; but to the admission of the parol evidence the administrator objected, and his objections were overruled by the court. The objection to the admission of the parol evidence must have been taken upon the supposition that notice, by suit, of the existence of a debt of a superior degree, being necessary, in order to charge an administrator, where he may have exhausted the assets, by the payment of debts of inferior degree. The position, however, can not be admitted to be correct. It has been said by some authors, that notice by suit, in such a case, is necessary; but the weight of authority maintains a different doctrine. See Toller's Law of Executors, 292, and the authorities there cited. The author of that treatise says, that "it has been asserted that such notice must be by suit; but it is perfectly clear, (says he) that an executor, if he be by any means apprised of a debt of a high degree, would not be justified in exhausting the assets in the discharge of one which, is inferior; yet unless he had some notice of the former, he incurs no risk by the payment (after a competent time) of the latter." *2 An administrator paying debts of an inferior degree, with notice of an outstanding demand of superior degree, is guilty of a devastavit, and such notice need not be by suit, but may be proved by parol. It follows, therefore, that the court not only decided correctly in permitting the parol evidence of notice, but, also, properly refused to instruct the jury, upon the further application of the administrator, that the law requires notice should have been given him of the plaintiff's demand by the commencement of suit, to exclude him from the benefit of payments which he had made of other debts though inferior in degree. In the progress of the cause, the plaintiff's counsel moved the court, and it accordingly instructed the jury, that the commission, allowed by the county court to the administrator, in the settlement of his accounts for his services in the management of the estate, should not be retained by him in preference to the plaintiff's demand. An administrator has a right to retain a reasonable sum for his trouble in administering the assets, even against specialty creditors as well as against distributees. In so instructing the jury, we think the court erred. Considering the nature and extent of the estate, the allowance made to the administrator is neither greater than in justice he deserves, or more than according to the rules of law, and the universal custom of the country, it was proper to allow. The allowance did not exceed five per cent. upon the amount of the assets which came to the hands of the administrator to administer. And we know of no law that forbids an administrator to retain, against debts of specialty, a competent sum to compensate him for his services in administering the estate, notwithstanding the assets may be inadequate to the payment of the debts. Neither the duties of the administrator are lessened, nor his claim to compensation diminished, by the debts exceeding the assets; and as his services are performed for the benefit of those who may receive the estate, whether it is paid to creditors or the distributees of the decedent, it is equally just that the administrator should be compensated out of the estate for his services in the administration. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and new proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1820. Logan's Adm'rs v. Troutman's Ex'r 3 A.K.Marsh. 66, 10 Ky. 66, 1820 WL 1159 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
