(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 59,  10 Ky. 59 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1157 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Alexander Parker v. Thomas D. Owings. Nov. 30, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Assignments 38 k 96 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k95 Rights of Assignee as Against Assignor 38k96 k. Right of Recourse. Most Cited  Cases An assignor is not subject to the action of the assignee, though the debtor has taken the insolvent debtor's oath, and surrendered a schedule, since it must further appear that the assignee pursued the estate, and failed to obtain satisfaction of his demand. Bills and Notes 56 k 299 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(B) Indorsement for Transfer 56k299 k. Necessity, to Charge Indorser, of Proceeding  Against Maker. Most Cited Cases An assignor of a promissory note, under the statute, is not subject to an action by the asignee, although the maker has taken the insolvent debtor's oath, and surrendered a schedule, unless the assignee has pursued the property, and shows the schedule and the amount of property ascertained. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is brought for the purpose of reversing a judgment recovered by Owings, in an action brought against him, in the circuit court of Fayette, by Parker. The object of the action is to charge Owings under, his assignment to Parker, of a promissory note which was given by Coleman and Megowan to Lewis Sanders, and by Sanders assigned to Owings. The declaration of Parker after setting out the execution of the note, and the several endorsements thereon, and after charging failure of Coleman and Megowan to pay, according to the tenor and effect of the note, alleges that Parker, with due diligence, commenced an action against the payors of the note, but was unable to coerce payment, by the most vigilant prosecution of the suit against Coleman and Megowan to insolvency. Non-assumpsit was pleaded by Owings; and on the trial of that issue, after all the evidence was gone through, the court instructed the jury, that the evidence was insufficient to maintain Parker's action, and they ought to find for Owings.--These instructions, we are of opinion, are correct. There appears to have been given in evidence a transcript of the record and proceedings in the action prosecuted by Parker, upon the assigned note, against Coleman and Megowan, containing a history of the proceedings from the commencement of the writ in that action, to the final discharge of both Coleman and Megowan from execution under the law concerning insolvent debtors; but the clerk in making out the transcript, certifies it not to contain the schedule of the estate, rendered by Coleman and Megowan upon taking the insolvent debtor's oath, and the justices, by whom the oaths were administered to them, certifies such schedules to have been rendered and annexed to their certificate; but there was no evidence conducing to show either the amount of the estate contained in the schedules or that any proceeding had been had to subject it to the payment of the judgment recovered by Parker. *2 An assignor is not subject to the action of the assignee, though payor has taken the insolvent debtor's oath and surrendered a schedule, unless such schedule is produced, and the amount of property delivered ascertained, the assignee is bound to pursue the property. The evidence thus detailed is, no doubt, sufficient to show the discharge of Coleman and Megowan under the law concerning insolvent debtors, but that discharge cannot we apprehend under the other circumstances proven in the cause, confer upon Parker a right to recover against Owings on his assignment. For, not withstanding the discharge the estate contained in the schedules of Coleman and Meggowan, became subject to the claim of Parker, and by pursuing the means furnished him by law, he might, for aught that appears in the record, by pursuing the estate have obtained satisfaction of his demand. It is true, the estate contained in the schedules, is not proven to be sufficient to discharge Parker's demand; but from the evidence, we are bound to admit the schedules contain estate of some value, and it is not incumbent upon an assignor to prove the payor is of ability to pay; but to subject the assignors it must appear that the assignee. by diligently pursuing all legal means, has been unable to obtain payment from the payor of the assigned note. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Wickliffe for plaintiff, Haggin for defendant. Ky.App. 1820. Parker v. Owings 3 A.K.Marsh. 59, 10 Ky. 59, 1820 WL 1157 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
