(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 6,  17 Ky. 6 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1461 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Baylor v. Smithers. Oct. 5, 1824. *1 Evidence, Bills of Exceptions. ERROR TO THE BOURBON CIRCUIT; JAMES CLARK, JUDGE. West Headnotes Witnesses 410 k 390.1 410 Witnesses 410IV Credibility and Impeachment 410IV(D) Inconsistent Statements by Witness 410k390 Competency of Evidence of Inconsistent Statements  in General 410k390.1 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 410k390) A bill, containing the testimony of a witness on a former trial, is competent evidence to discredit him if he testify again. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This cause was formerly before this court, and a judgment which had been previously recovered by Smithers, was then reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below, for a new trial of the issue made up by the parties. Upon the return of the cause to that court, and on the trial of the issue, and after the witnesses whose evidence had been introduced on the previous trial, were examined, Baylor offered in evidence the bill of exceptions taken on the former trial, containing a statement of the evidence then given by the witnesses, for the purpose of impeaching their testimony; but, on objections taken by Smithers, the bill of exceptions and the statements of the evidence therein contained, were excluded by the court. (1.) The excluded evidence ought, we apprehend, to have been admitted. Though witnesses, may have been examined on a previous trial, and their evidence then given made part of the record by bill of exceptions, it would, no doubt, be necessary, on a subsequent trial between the same parties, again to introduce the witnesses, if their testimony be essential to prove the facts in issue, unless from some cause not within the control of the parties, their attendance could not be procured. It is the undoubted privilege of each party to require a vica voce examination of the witnesses, on every common law trial of a contested fact; and the superiority of such an examination over any written statement of what may have been previously proved, demands a strict adherence to the rule, whenever the personal attendance of the witnesses can be obtained. (1) A bill of exceptions taken on a former trial, is not competent on a subsequent trial of the same suit, to prove the facts in issue, unless the attendance of the witness can not be procured--Arguendo. But whilst the principle is admitted to be as we have supposed it, neither the interest of the parties nor the reason or spirit of the rule forbids the introduction of a statement contained in a bill of exceptions, of what a witness may have previously proved, for the purpose of discrediting what he may afterwards say, on a trial between the same parties. (2) A bill of exceptions taken on a former trial, is competent, on a subsequent trial of the same cause, to prove what a witness examined on both, swore on on the first, to discredit him. The statements contained in a bill of exceptions must be supposed to have undergone, not only the inspection of each party or their counsel, but, moreover, the scrutiny and supervision of the court by whom the exceptions are signed. When enrolled, those statements in fact compose part of the record, and are entitled to as much verity, and are deserving as much credit, as would be the testimony of any witness who might prove what the witness whose statements are contained in the record, proved on a previous trial; and no rule is better settled, and none more frequently acted upon, than that which allows evidence of what a witness has previously sworn or said, to impeach or discredit his testimony. *2 The evidence ought not, therefore, to have been excluded. The judgment must, consequently, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Crittenden, for plaintiff; Taul, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Baylor v. Smithers 1 T.B.Mon. 6, 17 Ky. 6, 1824 WL 1461 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
