(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 564,  10 Ky. 564 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1172 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Michael Robenson v. S. G. Hopkins, Ex'or. Jun. 14, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE HENDERSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 75(1) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k75 Application and Proceedings Thereon 2k75(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases On reviving a bill in the name of an executor, the defendant should be served with process or publication made against him before a decree pro confesso, the defendant not having answered in the life of the testator. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: To be released from a judgment recovered at law by Robenson, the testator of the appellee exhibited his bill in equity, with an injunction, against Robenson; and Robenson being without the state, an order of publication was made, commanding him to answer, or the bill would be taken for confessed. After this, the testator departed this life, and an order was made, directing a revival of the suit in the name of his personal representative; whereupon the appellee, the executor named in the will of the testator, filed his bill of revivor, and without the service of process, or order of publication on that bill, an order was made taking the bill for confessed, and a decree was finally pronounced perpetuating the injunction obtained by the testator, and directing Robenson to pay costs. The proceedings are evidently insufficient to authorize the decree which was pronounced by the court. According to the ancient and established rules of chancery practice, no decree could be pronounced after the death of either complainant or defendant, without a revival of the suit in the name of the legal representatives of the decedent; and the only mode by which the suit could be revived, was, by exhibiting a bill of revivor, and causing the service of process thereunder. On reviving a bill in chancery in the name of an executor, the defendant must be served with process, either actual or implied, before a decree pro confesso, unless defendant has answered in the life of the testator. The rules of practice has, it is true, in this respect, undergone a slight alteration by a statute of this country, amending the proceedings in civil cases. 2 Litt. 401, 8, 10, But that statute only provides for the revival of suits in chancery after an answer of the deceased defendant has been filed, and can not be construed so as to dispense with a bill of revivor, where either complainant or defendant dies before the answer is filed; and wherever a bill of revivor is necessary, there must be either an actual or constructive service of process before a decree can be regularly pronounced. If, therefore, Robenson had been within the country, he should have been served with process under the bill of revivor; but as he appears not to have been within the country, an order should have been obtained, and publication made, as is required in the case of absent defendants. But as he was neither served with process, nor publication made against him, the decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin, for appellant; Littell and Crittenden, contra. Ky.App. 1821. Robenson v. Hopkins 3 A.K.Marsh. 564, 10 Ky. 564, 1821 WL 1172 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
