(Cite as: 2 Bibb 586,  5 Ky. 586 (Ky.),  1812 WL 636 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bartlett, etc. v. the Governor, for Prather. Spring Term, 1812. *1 A sheriff's bond conditioned to perform the duties of the office, may be put in suit for non performance of duties imposed by statute enacted subsequently to to the date of the bond. The paymaster of the regiment is the proper person to prosecute the sheriff's bond for a failure to collect and account for militia fines. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 158 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k158 k. Extent of Liability. Most Cited Cases A sheriff's bond, conditioned for performance of the duties of the office, extends to duties imposed by statute after the execution of the bond. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 166 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k160 Actions 353k166 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases The paymaster of the regiment is the proper person to sue on a sheriff's bond for his failure to collect and account for militia fines. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an action of debt, prosecuted in the Jefferson Circuit Court, in the name of Charles Scott, governor, etc., for the use of Prather, paymaster, of the first regiment of the Kentucky Militia, for the use of said regiment, upon a sheriff's bond, against Bartlett, etc. The declaration states in substance, that Bartlett, former sheriff of Jefferson county, and Edwards, etc., his securities, executed a bond to James Garrard, formerly governor of Kentucky, and predecessor of Christopher Greenup, late governor, who was predecessor of Charles Scott, governor, etc. conditioned among other things, that said Bartlett, sheriff, should in all things truly and faithfully execute the office of sheriff, for Jefferson county, according to law; and assigns for breach or failure to do every thing and anything in said condition stipulated, for whereas on the 4th day of May, 1801, while the said Bartlett was sheriff as aforesaid, and the said writing obligatory, in full force and operation, James Meri wether, then and there judge advocate of the first regiment of the Kentucky militia, in the county of Jefferson, delivered to the said Bartlett, as sheriff aforesaid, a list of fines imposed by the court martial held for the assessment of fines in said regiment, amounting to $169.56, for which said Bartlett, as sheriff, gave his receipt, promising to collect and account for the same according to law; nevertheless said Bartlett has not accounted for and paid said fines, etc. Judgment by default was had against Bartlett, etc., and upon the execution of a writ of inquiry, $169.56 in damages was found by the jury. The first inquiry necessary for the consideration of this Court is, whether the assignment of breaches gives any cause of action in favor of the plaintiff, because of the averment that the list of fines was delivered to Bartlett, by the judge advocate of the regiment. Was this case governed by the act approved December 20, 1800, concerning the militia, as was contended for by the plaintiffs in error, doubts might exist whether the action could be supported. That act provides that all fines thereafter assessed shall be by the judge advocate put into the hands of the commanding officer of the regiment, who approving the same, shall put a copy of the report into the hands of some sheriff, etc. But by an act of 1798, concerning the militia, it is made the duty of the judge advocate to put the fines imposed into the hands of the sheriff. At what time the fines alleged in the declaration to have been delivered to Bartlett were assessed, is not averred; whether before or after the passage of the act of 1800 does not certainly appear. *2 We think, however, it is evident that the fines were imposed under the act of 1798. The judge advocate, under that act, was bound to deliver the fines to the sheriff; he has accordingly done so; we cannot presume he has violated his duty in delivering the fines, and the sheriff to have done more than the law imposed on him, in receiving and receipting for them; when by a contrary presumption the judge advocate acted in strict conformity to his duty in delivering the fines, and the sheriff his in receipting for them. The averment in the declaration therefore gives the plaintiff a good cause of action. The fines should be considered as assessed under the act of 1798, by which it was the duty of the judge advocate to deliver them to the sheriff. The next inquiry for consideration is, whether an action can be maintained on the sheriff's bond for failing to account for militia fines. By the condition of the bond, the sheriff was in all things truly and faithfully to execute the office of sheriff according to law; by law the sheriff was bound to receive and account for the fines delivered to him for collection. The liability of the sheriff, therefore, comes within the express provisions of the condition of the bond--whether the sheriff at the date of the bond was bound to receive and collect militia fines or not cannot affect his liability. So soon as the law imposed the duty on the sheriff, the bond became obligatory on him for a faithful performance of that duty. The assignment of errors makes it necessary also to decide whether the breaches of the condition of the bond are erroneously assigned? They are somewhat informally assigned, but we think substantially correct; the assignment must be considered as a specification of a particular breach in failing to collect and account for the militia fines delivered to him for collection, and not as a general or special assignment of breaches. We think the action was properly prosecuted for the use of Prather, the paymaster, for the use of the regiment. The fines should have been paid the paymaster, and he bound to appropriate them to the use of the regiment. He, therefore, acted correctly in prosecuting suit for their collection. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1812. Bartlett v. Governor 2 Bibb 586, 5 Ky. 586, 1812 WL 636 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
