(Cite as: 4 Bibb 360,  7 Ky. 360 (Ky.),  1816 WL 772 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Scott v. Perrin. Jun. 5, 1816. *1 Sale of a negro canceled because the seller represented the negro to be a faithful survant, of good character, and not subject to run away, knowing him to be a faithless one, of infamous character and a notorious runaway. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 40 343 Sales 343I Requisites and Validity of Contract 343k37 Misrepresentation and Fraud by Seller 343k40 k. Quality or Value. Most Cited  Cases A., who had bought a negro of B., alleged that B. had represented the negro to be faithful and of good character, and not subject to run away. The evidence showed that B. knew his representations to be false, and it appeared that the negro ran away in a short time after the sale was made, and had never been heard of since.  Held, that A. was entitled to judgment relieving him from payment of the price. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. SCOTT purchased of Perrin a negro man, forwhom he paid $50 in hand, and executed his obligation for $300, payable at some future day. Before the time of payment the negro ran off, and Scott having refused payment. Perrin brought suit, and without any defense recovered a judgment at law. To be relieved from this judgment, and obtain a cancelment of the contract, Scott exhibited his bill in chancery, in which he charges Perrin with fraudulently misrepresenting the negro to be a faithful servant of good character, and not subject to run away. The cause having been regularly prepared for hearing, the Court below dissolved the injunction, and dismissed the bill of Scott; from which he appealed to this Court. We are of opinion Scott should have been relieved. The evidence whilst it clearly shows that Perrin made the representations in relation to the negro charged in the bill, incontestably proves that he knew the negro to be a faithless servant, of infamous character, and a notorious and worthless runaway. This evidence when connected with the further circumstance of the negro having run off in a very few weeks after the sale, and never being heard of since, as it not only establishes a fraud on Perrin in making the sale, but demonstrates the impossibility of a return of the negro by Scott, shows incontrovertibly the propriety of a Court of Chancery interposing for the purpose of giving relief. The decree of the Court must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and a decree there entered consistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1816. Scott v. Perrin 4 Bibb 360, 7 Ky. 360, 1816 WL 772 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
