(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 246,  8 Ky. 246 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1338 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ambrose Barlow v. Sarah Bell. Jun. 12, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE BARREN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 142(4) 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k142 Grounds for Compensation for Improvements or Taxes Paid 142k142(4) k. Bona Fides of Occupation or Claim. Most Cited  Cases Defendant in ejectment is not entitled to an allowance for betterments unless it appears that he was a bona fide purchaser. Improvements 206 k 4(2) 206 Improvements 206k4 Compensation 206k4(2) k. Good Faith of Claimant. Most Cited Cases Where a purchaser of land has a perfect knowledge of an outstanding title in a third person, and is advised of the consequence of his purchase by the latter's agent before making the same, he is not a bona fide purchaser, so as to be entitled to compensation for his improvements. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Some time early in 1801, the appellant purchased from a certain John Bell, who acted as the agent of his father, William Bell, a tract of land in Barren county, and having obtained from the agent a deed of conveyance, he settled upon the land, and made lasting and valuable improvements. Whilst the appellant was thus possessed of the land, but after the appellee's husband, William Bell, had departed this life, she, asserting title in her own right, brought suit, and finally succeeded in recovering the land. To obtain compensation for his improvements, the appellant then brought this suit in equity, but the court being of opinion, his claim could not be sustained, dismissed his bill with costs; and from that decree the appellant has appealed to this court. As the labor bestowed in improving the land, is sunk in the land, and was not done at the appellee's request, it is plain, that she can not, upon any common law proceeding, be subjected to the appellant's claim for compensation. A possessor of land without title either in law or equity, but believing it bona fide to be his own, is by the general principles of equity entitled to compensation for his ameliorations. Nor have we been able to find any adjudged case, where the English courts of equity have, under such circumstances, decided upon the right to compensation; but regarding courts of equity in supplying the defects of the common law, as being governed by the principles of natural justice, in the absence of all precedent, we should have no hesitation in relieving the possesor for improvements made upon the land, whilst he bona fide considered it his own. The possessor, by bestowing his money and labor in meliorating the land, advances its value, and, consequently, the rightful owner, unless liable to the claim of compensation, is so much gainer by the loss of the possessor; contrary to the maxim nemo debit locupletari aliena jactura. *2 But to bring himself within the influence of this principle, it is not enough, that the possessor shews himself to have meliorated the land, but his money and labor must be bestowed under an honest conviction of his being the rightful owner of the land. For, if he takes possession without title, and knowing the land belongs to another, he is himself guilty of a wrong, and although he may have expended his money, and bestowed his labor, his claim for compensation, ought not to be sanctioned by a court of equity; but in such a case the maxim volunti non fit injuria, well applies. But if he improves with a knowledge that the land is not his, he must bear the loss Vide post, Scroggs v. Taylor & al. As in the present case, therefore, the appellant is shewn to have had a perfect knowledge of the appellee's title, and was advised of the consequences of a purchase from the agent of William Bell, before he made the purchase, he can not be viewed in the favorable attitude of a bona fide possessor, so as to warrant the decree of a court of equity in his favor, for improvements made upon the land. The decree of the court below, dismissing his bill, is, consequently, correct, and must be affirmed with cost. Wickliffe, for appellant; Hughes, for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Barlow v. Bell 1 A.K.Marsh. 246, 8 Ky. 246, 1818 WL 1338 (Ky.), 10 Am.Dec. 731 END OF DOCUMENT
