(Cite as: 4 Bibb 455,  7 Ky. 455 (Ky.),  1816 WL 824 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Trigg v. Christmill. Nov. 26, 1816. *1 In a joint action against three the plaintiff cannot without any cause discontinue his suit as to two and take judgment against the other. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 504 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIII Dismissal 307AIII(A) Voluntary Dismissal 307Ak504 k. Dismissal as to part of parties in general. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 128k24  Dismissal and Nonsuit) In a joint action against several defendants, plaintiff cannot, without cause, discontinue his suit as to them all except one, and take judgment against that one. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was a joint action, brought by Christmill against Trigg, Price and Smiley, upon a joint and several obligation. The process was returned executed as to Trigg and Smiley, but as to Price it was returned "not found," and upon calling of the cause, and it being shown to the Court that Smiley had not been discharged sixty days from the service of the United States in the militia, when the process was served upon him, ordered the suit as to him and Price to be discontinued; and Trigg failing to make any defense, as to him judgment was taken by default. The judgment against Trigg cannot be sustained. The action being joint, unless sufficient reason was shown for abating the cause as to the other defendants, according to the settled doctrine of this Court judgment could not regularly be entered against Trigg alone. The record certainly shows no reason for discontinuing the cause either as to Price or Smiley. As to Price there is not even a suggestion why it was discontinued, and with respect to Smiley his not having been discharged from the service sixty days when the process was served, although that circumstance under the act of 1814, made the service irregular, it could not justify a discontinuance. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and the order discontinuing the action as to Price and Smiley set aside, and such further proceedings there had as may be consistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1816. Trigg v. Christmill 4 Bibb 455, 7 Ky. 455, 1816 WL 824 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
