(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 483,  8 Ky. 483 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1056 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Tilford et al. v. Hugh Emerson. Apr. 21, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE SCOTT CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Boundaries 59 k 3(3) 59 Boundaries 59I Description 59k3 Relative Importance of Conflicting Elements 59k3(3) k. Control of Natural Objects and Monuments Over  Other Elements in General. Most Cited Cases In determining boundaries, natural and permanent objects control courses and distances. Boundaries 59 k 3(3) 59 Boundaries 59I Description 59k3 Relative Importance of Conflicting Elements 59k3(3) k. Control of Natural Objects and Monuments Over  Other Elements in General. Most Cited Cases Courses and distances are controlled by fixed monuments. Equity 150 k 105 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k102 Complainants 150k105 k. Joinder. Most Cited Cases Persons holding distinct interests under the same title may join in a suit for investigating their equity. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a contest for lands under adverse claims. The appellees claim the land under the senior grant from the commonwealth, but the superior equity is asserted by the appellants, under a military survey in the name of Audley Paul. After having perfected his title, Paul conveyed, by metes and bounds, part of his claim to the appellant, William Tilford, and the balance to the appellant, Grant, who, thereafter, conveyed a part thereof to the appellant, Alexander Tilford, and all of whom, for the purpose of obtaining a surrender of the titles to the respective portions of Paul's survey, joined in the prosecution of the present suit against the appellees. The cause having been brought to a final hearing, the court below pronounced a decree, compelling the appellees to surrender the title to so much of the land claimed by the appellants, as is contained within the courses and distances of Paul's survey, when extended from the corner A. marked on the connected plat, and proven to be the beginning corner; but, for the balance of the land claimed, but which is not included within these courses and distances, the appellees were decreed to have the better right. The appellants, however, supposing the boundary as claimed by them sufficiently established, have brought the cause before this court. Although we have found it necessary, in order to arrive at a satisfactory result, to bestow a strict attention to the exhibits and depositions taken in the cause, yet, as they relate exclusively to a question of boundary, and involve no new principles, a minute specification of the facts which the volume of evidence throughout the record conduces to prove, is thought to be unnecessary. From those depositions and exhibits, we are, however, thoroughly convinced, that the survey of Paul, as originally made, is correctly delineated upon the connected plat, by the letters B C D, and constitutes what is now claimed by the appellants as the true boundary. *2 Surplus in a military survey will be decreed against an elder patent on treasury warrant, if the site of the ancient corners is proved, though such corners should have been destroyed. The plats and certificates of surveys, aided by the connection of military surveys, exhibited in the case, and fortified and explained by the weight of depositions, whilst they demonstrate, beyond doubt, that Paul's corners were not originally made at the termination of the distances called for in the certificate of survey, prove, satisfactorily, that the boundary to which the appellants now claim, constituted the original boundary. We are of opinion, therefore, that the court decided incorrectly in confining Paul's survey to the courses and distances called for. But upon the hypothesis of the boundary claimed by the appellants being sufficiently proven, it is contended that, as they derive their interest under that survey through separate deeds and for several portions thereof, they ought not to have asserted their right to relief in a joint suit, and hence it is urged, that the appellants' bill should, for that cause, have been dismissed. Persons deriving distinct interest from different sources of title can not unite in a suit in chancery; but if they hold distinct parcels, derived from the same source, they may unite to quiet the common claim. That, as a general proposition, several plaintiffs claiming distinct rights, are not permitted to unite in the same suit, certainly can not be controverted; but the application of the rule has never been made to that description of cases, where the rights asserted, though for several portions of the thing in contest, grew out of, and depended upon, the same original equity, the validity whereof is involved, in the issue between the parties. Thus whilst, as was held in the case cited from 2 Bibb, 314, it was irregular, in a bill for a specific execution of a contract, to unite several demands, originating under separate contracts, for several distinct portions of land, it is clearly proper, as was decided in the case in  3 Bibb, 107, for those claiming several interests, but which are deduced through a common medium, to join in a suit for the purpose of investigating their equity. And so, we apprehend, as the equity claimed under the survey of Paul, is the common medium through which all the appellants claim, and forms the primary and only equity involved in the issue between the parties, it was not improper for them to unite in the prosecution of the present suit. The decree of the court below must, however, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and a decree there entered according to the principles of this opinion. Hardin, for appellants; Haggin for appellee. Ky.App. 1819. Tilford v. Emerson 1 A.K.Marsh. 483, 8 Ky. 483, 1819 WL 1056 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
