(Cite as: 2 Bibb 518,  5 Ky. 518 (Ky.),  1812 WL 604 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Coleman v. Trabue, etc. Spring Term, 1812. *1 The sheriff's deed by virtue of a sale of land under an irregular execution, confers a title. If a stranger purchase under a judgment which is afterward reversed, the defendant shall be restored only to the money for which it was sold. But if the plaintiff purchase the defendant shall have restitution of the thing sold. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 276(2) 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k276 Effect of Modification, Vacation, or Reversal of  Judgment 161k276(2) k. Reversal. Most Cited  Cases A subsequent reversal of a judgment under which an execution sale was had does not devest the title of the execution purchaser, unless he is plaintiff in execution. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. Judge WALLACE absent. THIS is an ejectment, brought by Coleman against the defendants in the Bourbon Circuit Court. Issue was joined on the plea of not guilty; and on the trial, Coleman, to establish his title, produced in evidence the record of a judgment, obtained by him in the Jefferson Circuit Court against George Wilson; a writ of fieri facias, which issued thereon, directed to the sheriff of Bourbon county; the sheriff's return thereon, of his having sold the land to Richard Henderson; the deed from the sheriff of Bourbon to Henderson; the deed from Henderson to Coleman; and the patent from the Commonwealth to George Wilson. From the record it also appears that a ca. sa. had issued on the judgment, directed to the sheriff of Jefferson county, returnable before the issuing of the fieri facias to Bourbon; upon which ca. sa. the sheriff returned, that he had arrested the body of said George Wilson, whereupon he entered into bond with James Patten and William F. Simrall, securities for keeping within the bounds laid off for the jail of Jefferson county. On the motion of the defendants, the Circuit Court of Bourbon rejected the record and sheriff's deed, and instructed the jury that the execution and sheriff's deed gave no title, on account of irregularity apparent on the face of the record and deed; a verdict and judgment was obtained against Coleman to reverse which he prosecutes the writ of error. The only inquiry necessary in this cause is, whether the Court decided correctly in rejecting the record and deed, and in their instructions to the jury? It was contended in argument, that it was irregular to issue a fieri facias to Bourbon county, after the return made on the ca. sa. by the sheriff of Jefferson county. Whether it was irregular or not, we deem unimportant in the present case. For even admitting the irregularity, the fieri facias was a good authority for the sheriff to sell, until reversed or set aside. And when a sheriff sells to a stranger, under a fieri facias issued on a judgment, which is afterward reversed, the defendant shall not be restored to the property sold, but to the money for which it sold--2 Bac. Abr. 740,  8 Co. 96 Cro. Ja. 246. And so as the writ be not void it is a good justification, however irregular, and the purchaser will gain a title under the sheriff--2 Tid. Prac. 936. The fieri facias under which the land was sold to Henderson, is evidently not void; at most, it is only voidable; it gave authority to the sheriff to sell, and Henderson by his purchase gained all Wilson's title to the land. *2 We think, therefore, that the Court erred in rejecting the record and sheriff's deed, and in their instructions to the jury. Judgment reversed, with costs, and the cause remanded for a new trial, etc. Ky.App. 1812. Coleman v. Trabue 2 Bibb 518, 5 Ky. 518, 1812 WL 604 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
