(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 230,  10 Ky. 230 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1043 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Chiles v. Ebenezer Corn. Apr. 5, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Assignments 38 k 100 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k99 Equities and Defenses Between Original Parties 38k100 k. In General. Most Cited Cases An assignee of a chose in action takes the same subject to all defenses against it in the hands of the assignor at the time of the assignment. Bills and Notes 56 k 318 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(C) Assignment or Sale 56k314 Equities and Defenses Against Assignee 56k318 k. Defenses Existing Before Transfer or Notice  Thereof. Most Cited Cases A decree in favor of the maker of a note against the payee, declaring the note void for fraud, obtained before notice to the maker of an assignment of the note by the payee, is a good defense against the assignee. Bills and Notes 56 k 318 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(C) Assignment or Sale 56k314 Equities and Defenses Against Assignee 56k318 k. Defenses Existing Before Transfer or Notice  Thereof. Most Cited Cases In a suit by the assignee of a promissory note against the obligor, it is a good defense that the note was obtained by the obligee by fraud. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was a partition and summons brought by Chiles to recover from Corn the amount of a note given by Corn to Lewis Craig, and by Craig assigned to Chiles. The note bears date the 20th of May, 1812, and on the 21st of the same month was assigned to Chiles. Corn pleaded, that in a suit, brought by him against Craig,alleging,among other things in his bills, that the note was obtained by Craig through his fraud and misrepresentations; and after the service of process on Craig, and whilst the suit was regularly depending, the court pronounced a decree declaring it void, and directing it to be cancelled; and avers that he had no notice of the assignment of the note to Chiles until after the decree was rendered, &c. To this plea Chiles demurred, and Corn having joined in demurrer, the court overruled the demurrer, and rendered judgment in bar of Chiles' action. The case turns in this court on the sufficiency of the plea to bar Chiles' action. That the plea would be good to an action on the note, in the name of Craig, the obligee, there is no doubt. It would be good, because, if the note be void, no action can be sustained upon it, and by the decree set forth in the plea, Craig would be estopped to allege the note not void. But the present suit is not brought by Craig, but by his assignee; and as no act of the obligee can prejudice the assignee, after the obligor has notice of the assignment, the decree could have formed no availing defence against Chiles, if, before it as rendered, Corn had been notified of the assignment. But the plea alleges, that the decree was rendered before Corn knew of the assignment to Chiles, and, upon the principle, that an obligor is entitled to every defence against the assignee, which would be availing against the obligee before notice of the assignment, the plea, as it would be good against Craig, was properly held by the circuit court to bar Chiles' action. *2 Every available defense in the power of an obligor against an obligee, before assignment of a note, and occurring before notice of assignment, is valid against the assignee. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Bibb and Crittenden, for appellants. Ky.App. 1821. Chiles v. Corn 3 A.K.Marsh. 230, 10 Ky. 230, 1821 WL 1043 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
