(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 410,  8 Ky. 410 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1445 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Latham v. Ford et al. Dec. 9, 1818. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 58(1) 231 Justices of the Peace 231III Civil Jurisdiction and Authority 231k58 Jurisdiction to Be Shown by Record 231k58(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where a declaration is not filed, the evidence must show a demand within a justice's jurisdiction. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 This is a writ of error brought to reverse a judgment rendered by the circuit court, upon an appeal from the judgment of a justice of the peace, pronounced against Latham upon a warrant sued out by Ford, &c. The judgment of the circuit court appears to have been rendered, after the motion of Latham to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial was overruled, and the points relied on for a reversal of the judgment, grow out of the bill of exceptions taken to the refusal to award a new trial. On an appeal from the judgment of a justice, no declaration is necessary, if the justice had jurisdiction. Want of jurisdiction in the justice, can not be objected to on an appeal, if a declaration is filed. The motion for a new trial was made on the grounds of the verdict being against law and evidence; and if, as is alleged, the evidence introduced on the trial conduces, in no respect, to establish a demand upon Latham, cognizable before a magistrate, there is no doubt but that the verdict was against law. For, although, if an appeal be tried upon an issue made up to a declaration filed by the plaintiff in the warrant, no exceptions can regularly be taken, on the trial, on account of the subject matter not coming within the jurisdiction of the justice, yet as it is only in those cases, of which justices have cognizance, that the filing a declaration is dispensed with, it follows that on a trial, when no declaration is filed, the plaintiff in the warrant must, to authorize a verdict in his favor, prove a case strictly within the jurisdiction of the justice; and as the case now under consideration was tried without a declaration, it results, that Ford & al. the plaintiffs in the warrant, were bound to prove their case to be within the cognizance of a magistrate. Assuming, however, the facts, which the evidence conduces to prove, to be sufficiently established, we should be of opinion the case of Ford & al. is properly within the cognizance of a magistrate. There is no doubt, but upon such a state of facts, an action of indebitatus assumpsit for money had and received, might be maintained; and in such a case it is settled, if the sum be under $50, a recovery may be had before a justice. Cases of $50 and under, and for which indebitatus assumpsit would lie at common law, are within the jurisdiction of a justice. And with respect to the objection against the sufficiency of the evidence to support the verdict, we are not disposed, contrary to the opinion of the court below, to interfere. The evidence, it is true, is not as conclusive as it might be, but it is certainly of a character from which the jury might very rationally infer every fact necessary to authorize the verdict. The judgment must be affirmed with cost and damages. Ky.App. 1818. Latham v. Ford 1 A.K.Marsh. 410, 8 Ky. 410, 1818 WL 1445 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
