(Cite as: 4 Litt. 207,  14 Ky. 207 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1254 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Stovall and Wife v. Barnett's Ex'rs. Oct. 18, 1823. *1 FROM THE BOURBON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Deeds 120 k 17(1) 120 Deeds 120I Requisites and Validity 120I(A) Nature and Essentials of Conveyances in General 120k14 Consideration 120k17 Sufficiency 120k17(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases St.1801, allowing the consideration of deeds to be impeached, does not render invalid any consideration which, before the passage of that act, was valid. Deeds 120 k 17(3) 120 Deeds 120I Requisites and Validity 120I(A) Nature and Essentials of Conveyances in General 120k14 Consideration 120k17 Sufficiency 120k17(3) k. Natural Affection and Personal  Relations. Most Cited Cases Natural affection will support a conveyance to a grandchild. MONROE for appellants; SHARP for appellees. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action of covenant, brought in the court below against the executors of Thomas Barnett, deceased, by Stovall and his wife, upon the following deed executed by the testator in his lifetime to Mrs. Stovall, whilst she was a feme sole by the name of Betty Saunders. Natural affection is a sufficient consideration for a deed obligatory, and will warrant a recovery, either in law or equity. "Know all men whom it may concern, that for and in consideration of the good will and affection which I bear unto my daughter's daughter, Betty Saunders, and daughter of my deceased daughter, Lucy Saunders, I give and bequeath two negro women, they being the same I formerly lent said Lucy, one by the name of Moll, the other Phillis, each about eighteen or twenty years of age, with their increase, and will forever defend the right, title and claim to said negroes, to said Saunders, her heirs and assigns forever, under the penalty of two thousand dollars, as witness my hand and seal this 7th of March, 1808. A deed obligatory, on such consideration, made by a grandfather to a granddaughter, is within this principle. THOMAS BARNETT, (Seal.)" The court below sustained the demurrer of the defendants, which was filed to the plaintiffs' declaration. The act of 1801, allowing the consideration of deeds to be impeached, does not render invalid any consideration which, before the passage of that act, was valid. The question decided by that court, and which is now presented for the consideration of this court, is, whether or not the consideration expressed in the deed from the testator to Mrs. Stovall, is a sufficient one to authorize the plaintiffs to maintain their action for a breach of the covenant contained in the deed, to defend the right, title and claim to the negroes. The affirmative of this question, was in effect decided by this court in the case of  M'Intire v. Hughes, 4 Bibb 186. In that case the proximity of blood between a father and his son, was held to be a sufficient consideration to authorize a court of equity to decree a specific execution of a bond for the conveyance of land given by the former to the latter. It is true, that was a case in equity, whereas the present case is an action at law; but it should not be forgotten, that a court of equity can not, consistently with its general practice, decree the specific execution of a contract upon which there could be no recovery at law. There are cases of a peculiar and extraordinary character, where courts of equity may decree the specific execution of contracts, though no action at law could be thereon maintained; but those are cases which form exceptions to the general rule by which equity is controlled, and the case cited was not decided upon the principle of its falling within any of the exceptions. It was decided on the broad and general common law principle, that the proximity of blood between the father and son, formed a sufficient consideration to uphold the bond; upon which damages might have been recovered at law, and which, for the purpose of more substantial relief, ought to be specifically decreed in equity. *2 If, therefore, the decision in the case cited, be correct, (and that it is, we still entertain no doubt), it follows, that upon common law principles, the consideration expressed in the deed upon which this suit is founded, must be sufficient to authorize the plaintiffs to sustain their action. For although the deed in this case was not given by a father to his son, it was given to the granddaughter by the grandfather, and must be admitted to have derived the same force and effect from the consideration of blood, as if it had been given by a father to his child. But admitting the consideration sufficient as at common law, it may possibly be thought by some, that it ought not to be so adjudged under the act of the legislature of this country of 1801. The sixth section of that act provides, that "whensoever any suit is depending in any of the courts of this commonwealth, founded on any writing under the seal of the person to be charged therewith, it shall and may be lawful for the defendant or defendants therein, by a special plea, to impeach or go into the consideration of such bond, in the same manner as if the said writing had not been sealed, any law to the contrary notwithstanding." 1 Dig. L. K. 257. By thus permitting the consideration of deeds to be gone into, it surely never can have been intended by the legislature to do away or in any manner lessen the effect of any previous valid consideration. Were it admitted that such was the intention of the legislature, the consequence would be a total annihilation of all deeds. For the act has nowhere discriminated between considerations which may and such as may not support a bond, and that construction which would defeat a recovery upon a bond based upon any previous valid consideration, must necessarily be carried out to the destruction of all bonds, be the consideration what it may. The consideration of all deeds may be enquired into, and if from the mere circumstance of allowing that inquiry any consideration which would have been previously sufficient to give force and effect to deeds, be adjudged now incompetent for that purpose, the same change must be adjudged to have been produced upon the most valuable consideration, and all deeds reduced to mere shadows. But the truth is, that the act has wrought no change in the consideration of deeds; it has barely allowed the consideration to be gone into and impeached, leaving its validity to be tested by the principles of law in force at the passage of the act. We know that since the passage of the act, it has been held competent for a defendant in an action founded on a bond by special plea, to deny that it was given upon any consideration; and that decision we still think perfectly compatible with the true spirit and object of the act. For a purely voluntary bond derives no aid from any consideration, and when the fact of its having been given without consideration, is made appear by special plea, the rule quod ex nudo pacto non oritur actio, aptly applies. It is true, that at common law, this rule was not made to apply to deeds; but its application to contracts of that sort was denied, because from the solemnity of sealing and delivery, a consideration was always implied, and the defendant was estopped to affirm by plea, any thing contrary to the manifest solemnity of contracting. Under the act of this country, however, a party is not concluded by this artificial implication resulting from the solemnity of contracting; but a defendant may now by special plea, go into the consideration, and when the fact of a deed being purely voluntary, is made to appear, the application of the rule to which we have referred, may with propriety be made. *3 It results, therefore, that the court below erred in sustaining the defendants' demurrer to the plaintiffs' declaration. But as the parties have agreed that the judgment of that court should not be reversed, if this court should be of opinion that nominal damages only are recoverable upon such a covenant as that contained in the plaintiffs' declaration, it is proper to remark, that we are not of opinion that the mere circumstance of the covenant having been given by the testator in consideration of natural love and affection, precludes the plaintiffs from recovering more than nominal damages. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Stovall v. Barnett's Ex'rs 4 Litt. 207, 14 Ky. 207, 1823 WL 1254 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
