(Cite as: 3 Bibb 233,  6 Ky. 233 (Ky.),  1813 WL 665 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Davidson, for M'Kim, v. Geoghagan. Nov. 26, 1813. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 883(1) 228 Judgment 228XX Payment, Satisfaction, Merger, and Discharge 228k883 Set-Off of Judgments 228k883(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases The right to have one judgment set off against another is within the discretion of the court. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 DAVIDSON having an obligation on David Swanks for nine hundred and fifty gallons of whisky, sold and assigned the same to Geoghagan, for which he was to receive in cash down two and six pence per gallon. Geoghagan, upon receiving the obligation, although Davidson, before the contract was made, refused from him three shillings per gallon for the whisky in his own paper, failed and refused to pay down the money according to the terms of the contract, but tendered to Davidson in payment a credit upon an obligation previously given by Davidson to Henry Shroider, and by Shroider assigned to Geoghagan. Davidson would not accept of the credit, and brought suit to recover against Geoghagan the amount agreed upon for the whisky. During the pendency of the suit, Davidson, in consideration of a bona fide debt by him owing to John M'Kim, junior, assigned the benefit of the demand upon Geoghagan to M'Kim. An application to set off one judgment against another, is addressed to the equitable discretion of the Court?? and under the circumstances of this case refused. On the trial of this suit verdict and judgment were obtained in favor of Davidson for 395 dollars 83 cents and costs. Previous, however, to this judgment being obtained against Geoghagan, he had obtained a judgment in the same Court for 375l.i 15is.i 2Id. debt, interest and costs, against Davidson, on the obligation which he held as the assignee of Shroider, and upon which Davidson had refused to receive a credit. At the same term judgment was obtained against Geoghagan. Upon his motion the Court ordered so much of the judgment which he had obtained against Davidson as is equal to the amount recovered against him, to be set off against that judgment. Whether, therefore, the Court decided correctly in ordering the setoff, is the only question in this cause. The statute authorizing setoff being only applicable to cases before judgment, cannot control the decision of this question. It must be determined by the common law powers of Courts to direct one judgment to be set off against another. This power, if it exist at all (and that it does, we shall not controvert), should not be exercised under circumstances repugnant to the principles of equity;FNa1 and if those principles are applied to the case under consideration, it will evidently result that the Court erred in ordering the setoff. It is true Courts of Equity have, under peculiar circumstances, exercised jurisdiction in decreeing one account to be set off against others; but those cases are mostly where, from the circumstances, an agreement to set the one off against the other will be inferred, or where there exists such an intimate connection between the accounts as renders such a setoff peculiarly proper. But no case has been found, and it is believed none such exists, where Courts of Chancery or Courts of Law (when exercising their common law powers only) have interposed and ordered accounts or judgments to be set off to the prejudice of a bona fide assignee; whereas, in the present case no connection exists between the judgment or accounts to be set off, and where too it is plain by the contract of the parties, the one demand was not to be received in payment of the other. FNa1. The setting off one judgment against another, does not depend upon the statutes of setoff, but upon the general jurisdiction of the Court over suiters; it is a part of their equitable jurisdiction--Mitchell v. Oldfield, 4 Term, Rep. 123--Glaister v. Hewer, 8 Term, Rep. 69. Vide Randall v. Fuller, 6 Term, Rep. 456--Moreland v. Lashly, 2 Hen. Black. 441--Clewlow v. Lowe, 2 Barnes 102--Tito v. Dutby, 2 Strange 1203. Rule for setoff made absolute in the following cases: Barker v. Braham, 2 Black. Rep. 869--Barnes v. Crafter, same, 826--Schoole v. Noble, 1 Hen. Black. 23--Nunez v. Modigliani, same 217--O'Conner v. Murphey, same 657-- Vaughan v. Davis, 2 Hen. Black. 440--Dennie v. Elliot & Hill, same 587-- Glaister v. Hewer 8 Term, Rep. 69--Hall v. Odie, 2 Bos. & Pull. 29. See also Scoffin v. Roberts, 2 Barnes 128 (145)--Roberts v. Biggs, 2 Barnes 146--Sayer on Costs, ch. 40. p. 252--Bull. N. P. 336. From these cases it seems to be the settled practice to set off one judgment against another, whether for debt, damages or costs. In the Common Bench they permit the costs in cross actions to be set off without any regard to the attorney's lien for his costs: in the King's Bench they permit the setoff subject to the attorney's lien for his costs. For the practice and forms of the rule in such cases, see Tyd's K. B. 679-408--1. Cromp. 160--Bull. N. P. 336, Mordicai v. Nutting, and Willis v. Crab. *2 We are of opinion, therefore, the Court below decided erroneously, under the circumstances of this case, in ordering the one judgment to be set off against the other. The judgment must be reversed with costs. Ky.App. 1813. Davidson v. Geoghagan 3 Bibb 233, 6 Ky. 233, 1813 WL 665 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
