(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 429,  19 Ky. 429 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1335 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. McCormac &c. v. Smith &c. Dec. 22, 1826. *1 Assignments. Frauds. Parol Contracts. Statute of Frauds and Perjuries. Notice. APPEAL FROM THE CUMBERLAND CIRCUIT; BENJ. MONROE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 143(1) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k143 Persons to Whom Statute Is Available 185k143(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases One claiming a conveyance bond by a chain of parol contracts, who afterwards obtains a written assignment, will not be defeated by a prior assignment of the bond fraudulently obtained. The statute of frauds is not in his road. Assignments 38 k 85 38 Assignments 38IV Operation and Effect 38k83 Priorities 38k85 k. As Between Assignees. Most Cited  Cases An assignment by endorsement of a conveyance bond, previously sold by parol, obtained by a false representation to the assignor that the assignee was entitled to it when it was known to the assignee that the assignment was due another person, cannot prevail against a subsequent assignment to the rightful owner on a separate piece of paper. Bonds 58 k 87 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k87 k. Rights and Liabilities on Assignment or Sale. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k88) An assignment of a bond, obtained by falsely representing that the assignee was the party entitled to it, cannot prevail against a subsequent assignment to the rightful owner, although the latter derived his right through several parol contracts. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the facts of the derivation of title. In the year one thousand eight hundred, Lewis and John Potters, for a valuable consideration to them paid, sold and executed their obligation to Thomas Wilbourn and Robert Champ for four hundred acres of head right land, lying in the county of Cumberland. The obligation points out the interest which both Wilbourn and Champ were to have in their four hundred acres of land, and particularly describes two separate parcels, of one hundred acres adjoining, for each. The one hundred acres, designated for Thomas Wilbourn, was afterwards by his last will and testament, devised to his son William Wilbourn; and the one hundred acres designated for Champ, was afterwards for a valuable consideration received, sold by him to William Miller, and an obligation given to Miller for a conveyance. The hundred acres purchased by Miller was afterwards, for a valuable consideration, sold by him to Ezekiel Williams, and Williams, for a valuable consideration, sold the same to Jonas Casner, and Casner, for a valuable consideration, sold the same to Edward Wilbourn; but the sale by Miller and those subsequently mentioned, were all by parol, though the obligation which was given by Champ to Miller for a conveyance without being assigned, was either delivered to the respective purchasers, at the time of contracting, or to some other person for them. *2 After this, Edward Wilbourn claiming through Miller the one hundred acres which Champ had obligated himself to convey, and William Wilbourn claiming the one hundred acres devised to him by the last will of his deceased father Thomas Wilbourn, and Edward and Thomas Wilbourn, verbally contracted to sell the two hundred acres of land to William Smith, at the price of sixteen hundred dollars. At the time this contract was made, there were executions in the hands of L. Stockton, deputy sheriff of Cumberland county, for a large amount against the estate of Edward Wilbourn and William Wilbourn as his surety, and the parties supposing that it would be more correct to have the land sold by the sheriff, it was accordingly agreed that Stockton should sell the land under the executions, and if it should sell for less than sixteen hundred dollars, the price agreed on between the parties, Smith was notwithstanding to pay that amount. In pursuance of this agreement, Edward and William Wilbourn delivered the obligation which had been given by the Potters to Robert Champ and Thomas Wilbourn for the land, and which was then held by them, to Stockton, the deputy sheriff, and by a written assignment of that obligation signed by them, authorized Stockton to sell the two hundred acres of land, for the purpose of satisfying the executions which he held against Edward and William Wilbourn. Stockton accordingly after having regularly advertised the land for sale, exposed the same for sale at public auction, and Smith being the highest bidder, became the purchaser at the price of one thousand dollars. Regarding, however, his verbal agreement with Edward and William Wilbourn, Smith paid the sixteen hundred dollars, which he contracted with them to pay for the land, and after taking from Stockton a written certificate of his purchase, received from him as deputy sheriff a deed of conveyance for the land. Sale of the sheriff by consent of parties, and conveyance by him accordingly. After this Edward Wilbourn applied to J. W. Taylor with whom the obligation of Champ to Miller, had been left for safe keeping, and informed him that he wanted the obligation for Smith who had purchased the land. Taylor accordingly delivered the obligation to Wilbourn, but instead of handing it over to Smith, Wilbourn carried the obligation to Miller, told Miller that John B. M'Cormac was the rightful owner of the one hundred acres of land described in the obligation of Champ, and obtained Miller's assignment of the obligation to M'Cormac. Assignment of the obligation by Miller to McCormac. Discovering that Miller had been induced to assign the obligation to M'Cormac, and supposing the assignment had been obtained by artifice and misrepresentation, Smith by an agent applied to Miller and obtained from him an instrument of writing setting out the various sales of the land, and the inducements that led him to make the assignment of the obligation to M'Cormac, and after reciting the imposition and fraud by which he was induced to make the assignment, concludes by assigning the obligation and all the right, title and interest which he ever had in the land to Smith. *3 Miller's assignment afterwards to Smith. To obtain the legal title from the heirs of the Potters, (they having departed this life,) Smith then exhibited his bill in equity against the heirs, Champ, Miller, the Wilbourns and M'Cormac. Together with the foregoing facts the bill charges the assignment to McCormac, to have been procured through the fraud and misrepresentation of Edward Welbourn under a combination with McCormac, to cheat and defraud Smith out of the land which he had honestly purchased, and for which he has paid a full and adequate price, and prays for a cancelment of the assignment by Miller to McCormac, and for a conveyance of the land and for general relief. Bill for the title by Smith, charging the assignment to McCormac to have been obtained by fraud. Such of the defendants as answered, except McCormac and Edward Wilbourn, admit the material facts charged in the bill; but Edward Wilbourn and McCormac both insist that McCormac is entitled to the equitable right in the land, and McCormac makes his answer a cross bill, and prays a decree for the legal title to be made to him. The answers of both McCormac and Edward Wilbourn insist, and rely upon and plead the statute of frauds and perjuries against the relief sought in the bill of Smith. Though he does not deny notice of Smith's purchase before he received the assignment of the obligation from Miller, McCormac denies fraud, and insists that Edward Wilbourn was owing him fees for services performed by him as a lawyer, and that for those fees and other services of the same sort, which he was afterwards to perform, formed the consideration which he was to give for the land; but the amount of those fees nor the particular services performed, or which were to be performed by McCormac, are not mentioned in his answer. McCormac relies on the statute against frauds and perjuries, and makes his answer a cross bill for a conveyance to himself On a final hearing the court below was of opinion that the assignment to McCormac was fraudulent, and ought to be canceled, that Smith had a good equity to the land, and pronounced a decree in his favor for the legal title and costs. Decree of the circuit court. From that decree McCormac, &c. have appealed. The only part of the decree to which exceptions are taken by the assignment of errors, relates to the one hundred acres of land, sold by Champ to Miller and the obligation for which was by Miller afterwards assigned to McCormac. It is contended that by Miller's assignment of Champ's obligation, McCormac became invested with the equitable right to the land therein described, and that instead of directing the title thereof to be made to Smith the court below, under the cross bill of McCormac, should have decreed the title to be made to McCormac. Error assigned by McCormac. We can not, however, admit that through the assignment of Champ's obligation, McCormac became invested with such an equity, as to authorize the aid of a court of equity in his favour. Prior to the assignment Miller had sold the land to Williams and received from him the consideration money and was induced by no other consideration to make the assignment than a conviction produced by the representations of Edward Wilbourn, that McCormac was in good faith entitled to the benefit of Williams' purchase, when in truth, before that time the land under a special agreement of Edward and William Wilbourn, (the former holding the beneficial interest of Williams' purchase,) and by a written authority from them, had been exposed to sale by the sheriff, Stockton, and purchased and paid for by Smith; and when too, under the pretext of getting the obligation for Smith, the person with whom it was deposited for safe keeping, was induced by Wilbourn to deliver it up to him, and with a full knowledge of Smith's claim, McCormac agreed to accept the assignment, and by concealing the facts from Miller, Wilbourn procured him to make the assignment. *4 An assignment by endorsement of a conveyance bond before sold by parol, obtained by falsely representing to the assignor that the assignee is entitled to it, when it was known to assignee the assignment was due another person, can not prevail against a subsequent assignment to the rightful owner on separate paper. It is true, that although Smith under a written power from Edward and William Wilbourn to Stockton, had honestly purchased and paid his money for the land, several of the antecedent contracts, and all from Miller down to Edward Wilbourn, were by parol; and we know that under the statute of frauds and perjuries in this country, no action or suit in equity will be sustained upon a contract for the sale of lands, unless the contract or some memorandum thereof, be reduced to writing, and signed by the party or some other person by him lawfully authorized. But notwithstanding the provisions of the statute, it does not follow that parol contracts of that sort ought not to be fulfilled. The law will not give its aid to enforce them, but in conscience and moral justice they should be performed by the contracting parties. After having sold the land to Williams and received from him the price therefor. Miller, though not under a legal obligation to assign the bonds which he held upon Champ to Williams, was undoubtedly in moral justice bound either to assign the obligation to him or to the person who by subsequent contracts might be entitled to the benefit of Williams' interest in the land. That the person so having the right to the bond and obtaining the subsequent assignment had before derived his right through several parol contracts and could not otherwise connect himself with assignor, is not fatal to his claim. It is true, if at the time the assignment was made to McCormac, he had been in good faith entitled to the interest of Williams, there would be great force in his claim for relief in a court of equity. But such appears evidently not to be the case. Before that time Edward Wilbourn, had become invested with the interest of Williams, but his interest, through the sale by the sheriff, Stockton, had also, previous to the assignment, been transferred to Smith. The agreement between McCormac and Edward Wilbourn, made after the interest of Wilbourn had been sold to Smith, can not, therefore, have conferred any just claim upon McCormac, and of course the assignment made by Miller to McCormac under the mistaken belief produced by the false representations of Wilbourn, that McCormac was rightfully entitled to the interest which Williams had acquired by his purchase from Miller, can not form any ground for relief in favor of McCormac in a court of equity. If the first assignee had made the purchase, and obtained the assignment in good faith, he might have held, but having with full notice obtained the endorsement by fraud and artifice, his claim has no equity. But it is again contended that after the assignment to McCormac of Champ's obligation by Miller the court should not have denied a conveyance of the land to Smith. Without the written transfer to Smith which was made by Miller of the obligation of Champ, there would certainly, in consequence of the parol contracts through which Smith claims to be in equity entitled to the land, be great difficulty, and perhaps an impracticability under the statute against frauds and perjuries in sustaining the decree in favor of Smith. But we have already seen that through the parol contracts, Smith in conscience and moral justice became entitled to an assignment of Champ's obligation, and having obtained from Miller a writing purporting to be an assignment of that obligation, his right to relief can not, we apprehend, be defeated by the operation of the statute against frauds and perjuries. It is true the writing which Smith obtained from Miller, transfering Champ's obligation, is subsequent in date to an assignment which Miller had previously made of that obligation to McCormac. But if we are correct in the opinion that the assignment to McCormac was fraudulently obtained it would seem that either Miller or Smith, claiming through him, should, in a court of equity be relieved from the legal effect of that assignment. *5 One claiming a conveyance bond by a chain of parol contracts, who afterwards obtains a written assignment will not be defeated by a prior assignment of the bond fraudulently obtained. Statute of frauds and perjuries is not in his road. It follows, therefore, that the court below was not only correct in refusing to decree a conveyance of the land to McCormac, but also in decreeing the assignment made by Miller to McCormac of Champ's obligation to be cancelled, and for a conveyance of the legal title to be made to Smith. The decree must, consequently, be affirmed with costs. Cyrus Walker, for appellant; Mayes, for appellees. Ky.App. 1826. McCormac v. Smith 3 T.B.Mon. 429, 19 Ky. 429, 1826 WL 1335 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
