(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 191,  8 Ky. 191 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1301 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. David Grayble v. Jacob Froman Apr. 14, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 271(21) 157 Evidence 157VIII Declarations 157VIII(A) Nature, Form, and Incidents in General 157k271 Self-Serving Declarations in General 157k271(21) k. Affidavits. Most Cited  Cases An ex parte affidavit, made before a justice of the peace, intended to prove the service of a notice, is not evidence. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The proceedings in this case being had upon the motion of the defendant in error, for the purpose of recovering against the plaintiff in error, as sheriff, the amount of an execution and damages, for failing to return the same, it was clearly necessary that ten days' notice of the time of making the motion, should have been previously given; and it is equally clear, that before the court could regularly proceed to a trial of the motion, evidence of its having been served upon Grayble ought to have been required; but whether the ex parte affidavit taken before a justice of the peace was admissible evidence to prove the service, is the only question thought material to a decision in this court. The taking of such an affidavit certainly form no part of the official a duty of justices; and as by the admission of it, the other party would be deprived of the privilege of controverting its verity, by a cross examination of the person making it; we are of opinion it can not, upon any principle or rule of evidence, be legitimate evidence. An ex parte affidavit made before a justice of the peace, intended to prove the service of a notice, is not an official act, and not evidence. Because, therefore, the court below received such an affidavit as evidence of the service of notice upon Grayble, the judgment must be reversed with cost; but as the cause must be remanded for further proceedings, it may be proper to remark, that as Grayble appears now to have sufficient notice, no other evidence of the service should be required; and that as the proceedings are had against the present plaintiff for a supposed default, not in himself, but a person not admitted in the former trial to be his deputy, it would be proper for that court to admit the parol evidence they rejected, tending to shew that the person alleged to be deputy, acted in that capacity for the plaintiff. The cause must be remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Littell, for plaintiff; Blair for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1818. Grayble v. Froman 1 A.K.Marsh. 191, 8 Ky. 191, 1818 WL 1301 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
