(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 520,  9 Ky. 520 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1109 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Elisha Owings v. Isaac Gray. Oct. 9, 1820. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE CIRCUIT COURT OF BATH. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 1001(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(I) Questions of Fact, Verdicts, and Findings 30XVI(I)2 Verdicts 30k1001 Sufficiency of Evidence in  Support 30k1001(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A verdict will not be disturbed merely because the testimony, as disclosed by the record, appears vague, indefinite, or unsatisfactory. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This action was brought by Owings to obtain compensation for the failure of Gray in not performing in a work manlike manner the wood work of a house which was covenanted to be performed by him for Owings. Gray pleaded, 1st covenants performed, and 2d that after the work was performed by him it was received by Owings in satisfaction of the covenant. Issues in fact were made up to each plea, and a general verdict found for Gray. Owings then moved the court for a new trial, on the ground of the verdict being against law and evidence, but his motion was overruled and judgment rendered upon the verdict in favor of Gray. From that judgment Owings has appealed to this court. After verdict and judgment for defendant on evidence conducing to support this plea, though not of the most conclusive sort, no new trial should be awarded. The cause turns in this court exclusively upon the correctness of the circuit court's refusal to award a new trial. There is no pretense for the suggestion of the verdict being against the law, unless it results from an absence of evidence to support the verdict; but we are not of opinion the verdict can, with any propriety, be said to be either without or contrary to evidence. The record contains a statement of evidence conducing to prove, on the part of Gray, both issues; and, although not the most conclusive, the evidence is clearly of a character which forbids this court, contrary to the opinion of the ciucuit court, to overturn the verdict. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Bibb for appellant, Pope for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Owings v. Gray 2 A.K.Marsh. 520, 9 Ky. 520, 1820 WL 1109 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
