(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 174,  10 Ky. 174 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1191 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. George Surlott v. Elijah Pratt. Dec. 14, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE LINCOLN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 339 302 Pleading 302XIV Withdrawal 302k339 k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where a demurrer to a declaration is overruled, the demurrant should not be permitted to withdraw it, unless upon filing a valid plea. Usury 398 k 23 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(A) Nature and Validity 398k21 Bills, Notes, and Other Instruments for Payment of  Money 398k23 k. Usurious Transactions Between Original Parties.  Most Cited Cases A note, promising to pay the principal, interest, and a premium of 8 per cent., unless it appear that the premium was without valid consideration, and merely in consideration of the loan or forbearance, is not usurious. Bills and Notes 56 k 117 56 Bills and Notes 56II Construction and Operation 56k117 k. What Law Governs. Most Cited Cases Where a declaration on a note made out of the state does not aver the rate of interest in the place where it was made, the rate of interest in this state will be allowed. Bills and Notes 56 k 471 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k461 Declaration, Complaint, or Petition 56k471 k. Amount Due, Interest, and Attorney Fees. Most Cited  Cases A declaration on a note given out of the country, demanding interest, should aver what is the rate of interest where the note was given. Interest 219 k 65 219 Interest 219IV Recovery 219k64 Pleading 219k65 k. Allegations as to Interest. Most Cited  Cases To support the recovery of interest allowed by the law of another state, the law of interest under which the allowance is made must be averred and proved. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: On the 17th of February, 1818, Surlott gave to Pratt the following note: "By the first of August next I promise to pay Elijah Pratt, or order, one hundred dollars, with interest, and a premium of eight per cent. Value received, Charleston, February 17, 1818. G. SURLOTT." To recover the amount of this note, Pratt brought his action of debt; and declared against Surlott in a plea of debt, that he render unto him one hundred dollars with interest and a premium of eight per cent., which he owes to, and from him unjustly detains, for that the said Surlott, on the 17th of February, 1818, at Charleston, to-wit, in the circuit of Lincoln, and state of Kentucky, by his certain note, signed by him the said Surlott, and now the court shewn, the date whereof is the same day and year aforesaid promised to pay him the said Elijah Pratt or order, $100, by the first of August next ensuing the date thereof, with interest, and a premium of eight per cent., for value received, & c.; and alleged, for breach, the non-payment of $100, interest and premium, &c. *2 To the declaration Surlott, after craving oyers of the note demurred, and the demurrer being joined, judgment was rendered for Pratt. Surlott then asked leave of the court to withdraw his demurrer and plead the statute of usury, but tendered no plea to the court, and no permission was given to plead, but final judgment was rendered in favor of Pratt for the one hundred dollars, with interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum from the 1st of August, 1818, until paid, and a premium of eight dollars and costs. From that judgment Surlott has appealed, and has assigned for error, 1. The court erred in the judgment rendered on the demurrer. 2. The court erred in not giving leave to withdraw the demurrer and plead. This court perceives no error in that court's overruling the demurerr. The declaration claims nothing but that to which, from its allegations, the plaintiff is shewn to have an unquestionable right. It asserts claim, it is true, not only to the one hundred dollars, but, moreover, to interest and a premium of eight per cent. But the circumstance of the defendant having undertaken to pay interest and the premium, conduces not to shew that the undertaking was usurious. To be usurious, the interest and premium should have been reserved, or undertaken to be paid, in consideration of the loan or forbearance of the one hundred dollars; but from the phraseology of the note, such an undertaking or reservation can not be implied,--there may have been a good and valuable consideration as well for the 100 dollars, as for the premium and interest. A note promising to pay principal, interest and a premium, is not usurious, unless it appears that the premium was in consideration of a loan or forbearance, the premium will be presumed to have been on a valid consideration. A declaration on a note shewn to have been given out of this country, and demanding interest, should aver the rate of interest in the country where it was given; aliter, on a note given here, a general law governs the interest, of which the court will take notice. Considered as a valid note for the $100, interest and premium, no reason is perceived against the mode pursued by the plaintiff to recover the amount. If the note were understood to have been given out of this country, there might be a necessity for the plaintiff to allege the rate of interest of the country where it was given. In that case, the amount to be recovered for interest would be regulated by the laws of the country where the note was made; and as the court can not judicially know the laws of other countries, a declaration demanding the interest ought regularly to allege the amount or rate of interest. But in this case, the declaration contains no suggestion from which it can be inferred that the note was given out of this state. The note bears date at Charleston; but Charleston is not averred to be out of this country; and this court can not intend, contrary to the statements in the declaration, that it is not within the state. As a note made in the state, therefore, the rate of interest is fixed by law; and being certain in its amount, there can have been no legal impropriety in the plaintiff's demanding it in his declaration. The demurrer was therefore properly overruled. And we entertain do doubt but the court decided correctly in refusing to permit a withdrawal of the demurrer. After a decision against the defendant, he might, by presenting a valid plea, have obtained leave to withdraw his demurrer and file it; but without having exhibited his plea, to enable the court to judge of its sufficiency, it can not have been irregular to refuse him permission to withdraw his demurrer. *3 On overruling a demurrer to a declaration, demurrant should not be permitted to withdraw it but on filing a valid plea. The judgment must be affirmed with costs and damages. Hardin, for appellant. Ky.App. 1820. Surlott v. Pratt 3 A.K.Marsh. 174, 10 Ky. 174, 1820 WL 1191 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
