(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 263,  17 Ky. 263 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1554 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lamme v. Saunders. Dec. 15, 1824. *1 Usury, Scire Facias, Judgment, Demurrer, Set-off, Sureties. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 439 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k439 k. Compelling Set-Off or Reduction of Damages. Most  Cited Cases Where a judgment has been rendered at law against a principal and his surety, the latter cannot set up in equity, as a ground for an injunction, a debt due to his principal by the plaintiff, which has no connection with that on which the judgment was rendered, without showing any reason for not asserting it at law. Judgment 228 k 445 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k445 k. Questions Presented in Original Action. Most Cited  Cases Though a note executed for a judgment obtained on a usurious contract is void, yet, where the usury has been pleaded at law and overruled, it cannot be drawn in question again in a court of equity. Usury 398 k 107 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(B) Rights and Remedies of Parties 398k107 k. Effect of Judgment in Action on Contract or  Security. Most Cited Cases A note executed for a judgment obtained on a usurious contract is void. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Jesse Lamme loaned to Lewis Saunders various sums of money, under agreements to receive interest at a rate greater than six per centum per annum on the amount loaned. Defendant herein recovered a judgment on a note containing a large amount of usury. The notes which were given by Saunders for the payment of the money and the usurious interest, were from time to time renewed, until the sum loaned and the interest reserved amounted to $2,500, of which sum $1,885 86, was advanced by the said Jesse Lamme, and the residue, interest reserved and which had accrued upon the same. To secure the payment of the $2,500, Saunders executed a note to Lamme, in February, 1817, and payment not having been made, suit was brought upon the note by Lamme and judgment at law recovered for the amount thereof, together with interest and costs. Saunders was afterwards taken in custody by the sheriff, under a capias ad satisfaciendum, which issued upon the judgment in favor of Lamme, and to procure his release and secure the payment of the amount of the judgment, Saunders executed two notes, each for a moiety of the debt, to Lamme. In one of these notes, Samuel Saunders and John Fowler were his sureties, and in the other, Thomas D. Owings and said Fowler, became jointly bound. For this judgment the defendant therein executed new notes in one of which the present complainant united as security. Subsequent to this, suit was brought by Lamme upon the note executed by Lewis Saunders, Samuel Saunders and John Fowler. To this suit the defendants appeared and filed a special plea, setting out the usurious loans by Lamme, and the various renewals of the notes executed by Lewis Saunders, together with the action and judgment upon the note for $2,500, and the subsequent execution of the two notes, each for a moiety of the judgment, &c. and relying upon the statute against usury, &c. *2 To an action on this note the defendant pleaded the usury. The plea was demurred to by Lamme, and the demurrer was sustained by the court, and judgment finally recovered for the amount of the note, &c. Plea of usury adjudged insufficient, and judgment for the plaintiff. Samuel Saunders, one of the sureties of Lewis Saunders in the note, then exhibited his bill in equity, again repeating the circumstances of the loans by Lamme, and the various renewals of the notes, &c. as had been alleged in the plea to the action at law, and relying upon the usurious reservations of interest, as entitling him to relief against all of the judgment except $942 93, being a moiety of the $1,885 86, the amount of the principal sum loaned by Lamme to Lewis Saunders. Bill by the surety, and allegations as to the usury. The complainant also states in his bill, that Lamme was indebted to Lewis Saunders $100, for a bull, which the former purchased of the latter; and also, that Lamme was indebted for merchandise purchased of said Lewis, $100. One-half of each of these sums, the complainant insists ought to be set-off against the judgment at law. Allegations as to set-off The bill concluded by praying an injunction (which was granted), against all the judgment, except $842 93, and for general relief, &c. Prayer of the bill, and injunction granted. Lamme, Lewis Saunders and Fowler, were made defendants; but neither of them answered, except Lamme. The answer of Lamme admits the loans of the money upon the usurious reservation of interest, and the several renewals of the notes and the recovery of the judgments as stated in the bill. It also admits the purchase of the merchandise of Lewis Saunders, as stated in the bill; but it denies the alleged purchase of the bull, and charges that Lamme has paid Lewis Saunders for the merchandise. Defendant's answer. In his answer Lamme protests against a court of equity decreeing the relief sought by the bill. On a final hearing, the court below were of opinion that Lamme was indebted to Lewis Saunders for the purchase of the bull and merchandise, as alleged in the bill, and being also of opinion that the complainant ought to be relieved on account of the usurious reservation of interest, pronounced a decree perpetuating the injunction for all the judgment except $842 93, that amount being the residue of principal loaned by Lamme to Lewis Saunders, after deducting the one-half of the price of the merchandise and bull, which the court supposed had been sold by Saunders to Lamme. Decree of the circuit court. To reverse that decree, Lamme has prosecuted this writ of error. From the preceding statement, it will be perceived, that the grounds relied upon by the complainant in the court below for relief, are two-fold: 1st. That of the usurious reservation of interest upon the sum loaned by Lamme to Lewis Saunders. And, 2d. That of the debt which Lamme is charged to be owing Lewis Saunders, for the purchase of merchandise and the bull. *3 (1.) With respect to the first ground relied upon for relief, it is proper to premise, that there is nothing in the record conducing to show, that at the time the note upon which the judgment at law was rendered, any contract was made between Lamme and Saunders, whereby any usurious interest above what had accrued upon previous contracts, was reserved; but from the record it is abundantly proved, that the amount of which the note upon which the judgment was recovered at law, forms a moiety, was produced by including in the calculation then made by the parties, usurious interest which had been previously reserved upon loans made by Lamme to Saunders, and which had at the time accrued. It may, therefore, upon legal principles, be asserted, that the note is contaminated by the usury therein contained and in contemplation of law, illegal and void. (1) A note executed for a judgment obtained on a note in which was included usurious interest, is contaminated with the usury. (2.) We have not forgotten, that the amount of which the note in question forms a moiety, had been previously adjudged to Lamme by a court of law, in an action which he prosecuted against Saunders upon another obligation, and we know that adjudged cases are not wanting, to prove that to a scire facias brought to revive a judgment rendered upon an usurious contract, the defendant will not be permitted to defeat the action, by pleading the usury. Cro. Eliz. 588; Ord on Usury, 93. (2) To a scire facias to revive a judgment, usury can not be pleaded--Argu. (3.) But it does not thence follow, that if after judgment upon an usurious contract, a new obligation be given for the amount, including the principal loaned and usurious interest reserved, the usury can not be pleaded to an action brought upon such an obligation and a recovery defeated. In such a case, the obligation is for the payment of the money lent and usurious interest reserved, and in the emphatic language of the law, is declared void; and if so, it follows necessarily, that by pleading the usury, any action founded upon it may be defeated. (3) A note executed for a judgment obtained on an usurious consideration, is void, and by pleading the usury, an action on it may be defeated. (4.) But if such be the doctrine of the law in relation to an action founded upon an obligation given for the amount of a judgment rendered upon an usurious contract, it may possibly be asked, why is the rule otherwise in a scire facias brought upon the judgment? (4) Judgments on usurious consideration, are not embraced by the words of the statute. We answer, that the reason for a difference in the rule in the two cases, consists in the difference between an obligation and judgment, and grows out of the import of the statute concerning usury. The former is expressly declared void by the statute, and the latter has been held not to be comprehended by its provisions. The statute declares void all bonds, contracts, covenants, conveyances or assurances, for payment of any money or goods, for the loan of which a higher interest is reserved than is allowed by the statute. Judgments are not named among the things which are declared void by the statute, and by constring assurances not to embrace them, the principle has been settled, forbidding a defendant pleading usury in a scire facias, brought upon a judgment. *4 Otherwise, as to bonds given for such judgments. But when the action is founded upon an obligation which is embraced by the statute, the rule is otherwise, and the usury, of course, pleadable. (5.) If, then, in the preceding remarks, we are correct, it follows, that the first ground relied upon for relief by the complainant in the court below, can not be availing; for the usury was pleaded at law to the action which was brought upon the note by Lamme, and it is settled, that after relying upon the usury at law, the same matter can not be again drawn in question in a court of equity. It is true, the demurrer of Lamme, which was filed to the plea at law setting out the usury, was sustained by the court of law, and the plea adjudged to be unavailing; but if we are correct, the court of law erred in sustaining the demurrer, and to be relieved from that error, the defendants in the action at law should have taken the case to the court of revisal, and not resorted to a court of equity. (5) Where the usury has been sufficiently pleaded in an action at law, and on demurrer the plea overruled and judgment rendered, the matter can not again be set up in equity. It results, therefore, that there is nothing in the first ground relied on by the complainant, which can authorize a court of equity to decree in his favor. (6.) Nor are we of opinion that the other ground relied on can be availing. Without going into the evidence in relation to the demand asserted against Lamme for the merchandise and bull, it is sufficient to remark, that neither demand is shown to have any connection with the debt for which Lamme recovered judgment at law, and there is no other circumstance in the cause, tending to show any reason for not asserting those claims at law. (6) A debt due to the principal by the plaintiff at law, which has no connection with that on which the judgment was rendered, can not be set up by the security as a ground for injunction, without some reason why the claim could not be asserted at law. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and the bill dismissed with costs, and the injunction dissolved with damages. Wickliffe, for plaintiff; Haggin, for defendant. A motion was made for a rehearing of the question of the bar to the relief of the complainant against the usury, by the plea filed at law, and there overruled, on the grounds and authorities contained in the following: DECEMBER 22, PETITION FOR A RE-HEARING, BY JAMES HAGGIN, ESQ. This is a case of usury. The complainants attempted to avail themselves of it in defense of the suit at law, but were overruled. They then filed their bill in chancery, and the opinion delivered leaves them to suffer, because of their delinquency. They should have prosecuted their defense even to the court of appeals. It is not desired that this court should impugn any thing which was done at law. High authorities and every reason forbid a retrial in chancery, of matters heard and tried at law; but the prohibition, it is with deference supposed, should be confined to issues of fact. Let it, however, be admitted for the present, that we are concluded as to the law; then, we were without defense at law. But the opinion supposes that the court of law erred and so the complainants have still apprehended; yet this should not prejudice the complainants. The court of appeals of Virginia, in the case of Ambler and Wild, declared it a just cause for the interposition of the chancellor, that the court of law had rejected on trial, evidence admissible under the general issue, and maintained the bill, although chancery had not concurrent jurisdiction, and although no appeal was prosecuted; and the same principle is again recognized in the case of Terrel and Dick, by the same court, The authority is respectable, of long use, and familar in our courts; insomuch, that many cases of our own appellate court can be found, as is believed, in which it has had its influence. *5 The complainants come into court prepared and desirous to prove the usury at law; but the defendant had the address to prevail on the court to reject it. In the case of Downing and Bodley, because the debtor had succeeded in opposing a motion for an execution to his county, and the proper county, this court justified an order that it should issue to the county of the security; an opinion only maintainable by an equitable exposition of the statute, and a defect of justice. Yet an appeal should have been taken by Downing from the first decision. It is not deemed, however, indispensable to maintain, that errors of the court of law, procured by the plaintiff, may justify the exercise of chancery jurisdiction. It is sufficient that equity can not be thus ousted; for this is a case of concurrent and original chancery cognizance, and within a few years past, this court has often declared, that a failure to defend at law, when chancery had concurrent jurisdiction, could not restrain it. An absolute and utter delinquency can prove no obstacle. Is our case impaired by the circumstance that we made an effort but were paralyzed by the court and our adversary, and, therefore, declined? The reason or propriety of such a result, can not be perceived. Nor is given. Owings and Saunders were not bound to proceed as far as they did. An entire delinquency can not prejudice. Why shall a partial one? In Virginia, judicial error, confers a right to chancery consideration; in Kentucky, it destroys it. At law, one error of the court, promoted by a party, imposed the necessity of a different remedy and it was afforded, notwithstanding the corrective allowed by appeal; but such an error, attended by just the same remissness, has silenced the conscience of the chancellor. The complainants had redress, they have never enjoyed the benefit of it. It was the duty of this court to relieve them; yet by implication, they are made to forfeit their right to a hearing. A rehearing is prayed. JAMES HAGGIN, for def'ts. DECEMBER 23. But the court, on consideration, adhered to the opinion delivered, and overruled the petition. NOTE.--Chief Justice Boyle did not sit in this cause. Judge Mills was absent in the case of the Commonwealth for the use of Kennett v. Fugate, the first case in the volume. Ky.App. 1824. Lamme v. Saunders 1 T.B.Mon. 263, 17 Ky. 263, 1824 WL 1554 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
