(Cite as: 4 Litt. 311,  14 Ky. 311 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1292 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. May's Heirs v. Bennett. Dec. 2, 1823. *1 FROM THE OHIO CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. H. P. BRODNAX SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 70(2) 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(C) Personal Disabilities and Privileges 241k70 Disabilities in General 241k70(2) k. Disability of Part of Several Jointly  Interested. Most Cited Cases The infancy of one heir prevents the limitation act of 1809 from running, and protects the rights of all. BIBB for plaintiffs; CRITTENDEN for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a judgment rendered against the present plaintiffs, in an action of ejectment which was brought by them in the court below, to recover the possession of a tract of land in the county of Ohio. The infancy of one heir prevents the limitation act of 1809 from running, and protects the rights of all. The facts of the case were agreed by the parties on the trial in that court, and the jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs, if the court should be of opinion that the law was for them; but they found for the defendant, if the court should adjudge the law to be for him. The proviso in that act is in similar language, and ought to receive a similar construction with the proviso in the act of 1796, limiting the time of prosecuting writs of error. The court decided the law to be for the defendant on the facts agreed, and the question presented for the determination of this court, controverts the correctness of that decision. It was agreed that the plaintiffs are the heirs and legal representatives of Gabriel May, to whom a patent for the land in contest issued from the commonwealth the 5th of June, 1798, and that the said Gabriel May departed this life in 1812, without having made a will, leaving two of his daughters femes covert, and one of his sons an infant, who still continued in his minority at the time of the trial in the circuit court. It was also agreed that there issued in the same year, but subsequent to the date of May's patent, two patents from the commonwealth to Ignatius Pigman for the land in contest, and that after obtaining a conveyance from Pigman, the defendant settled on the land in the autumn of 1799, and has continued to reside thereon ever since. From the preceding facts it will be perceived, that the patent which issued to Gabriel May under which the plaintiffs claim, is elder in date than the patents to Pigman, under which the defendants hold possession; so that in point of law, the plaintiffs must be entitled to recover, unless in consequence of the lapse of time the defendant has been possessed, their right of recovery is barred. It is evident, however, that the right of the plaintiffs to recover, can not be affected by any thing contained in the act of the legislature of this country, limiting rights of entry to twenty years; for this action was commenced in the spring of 1819, less than twenty years after the defendant obtained possession of the land, and the principle is well settled, that there must be an adverse possession, before the statute of limitations can begin to run against the person having a right of entry. *2 But, by the facts agreed, the defendant appears to have been actually residing on the land under a title of record at the date of the act of February, 1809, and has continued to reside thereon ever since; and it is presumed that the decision of the court below against the plaintiffs, was formed by an application of the provisions of that act, to the facts agreed. If neither of the children of the patentee, May, had been admitted to labor under any of the disabilities mentioned in the act of 1809, there could be no doubt but according to the provisions of that act, the plaintiffs could not maintain their action; for in the first section of that act, it is expressly declared, that "after the first day of January in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, no action at law, bill in equity, or other process, shall be commenced or sued out, by any person or persons claiming land under or by any adverse interfering entry, survey or patent, whereby to recover the possession from any person or persons, who shall have actually settled thereon before the passage of this act." But two of May's daughters are admitted to have been femes covert at the time of his death, and one of his sons is also admitted to have been at the same time and still continued at the trial in the court below, to be an infant, and as the patentee, May, was also admitted to have died before the first of January, 1816, and after the passage of the act, it was contended in argument, that the right of the plaintiffs to maintain their action is saved by the provisions of the fourth section of the act. That section provides, that the limitation prescribed in this act, shall not extend to infants, femes covert, or persons of unsound mind, nor to persons out of the United States, in the employment of the United States or this state; but such persons shall be at liberty to institute such suits as are meant to be limited by this act, at any time within seven years after their respective disabilities are removed, or after the expiration of their employment beyond the limits of the United States: Provided, however, that where the limitation shall have begun to run, and the right or title shall, by the act of God or operation of law, be cast upon any person within the disabilities and exceptions, the time of the existence of such disability or privilege, shall be excepted out of the computation of the time of the limitation aforesaid. On the part of the defendant, it was not controverted, but that the plaintiff's action might be sustained, if at the time of the patentee May's death, all of his children had labored under any of the disabilities mentioned in the fourth section of the act; but as from the agreed case, only part of the children appear to have labored under disabilities, it was contended that notwithstanding those disabilities, the limitation of time which had commenced running against the ancestor, May, should continue to run; and that as the action of the plaintiffs was not commenced until after the first of January, 1816, it was insisted the court below decided correctly in adjudging the law against the plaintiffs. *3 Were the act under consideration, similar in its provisions to the act limiting the time of making entries upon land to twenty years, it would be conceded that after the limitation of time had commenced running against the ancestor in his lifetime, it would have continued to run against his heirs, though part of them labored under disabilities when by operation of law, the title was cast upon them. Such has heretofore been the decision of this court upon that act, and such, we still think, is the correct construction of it. But to all who may take the trouble of comparing the provisions of that act, with those of the act under consideration, there will appear a plain and palpable difference. The provisions of the act in question, bear a more striking analogy to the act of 1796, limiting the time of prosecuting writs of error,  (1 Littell 564). In truth, those parts of the act which bear upon the present case, are in substance the same of those contained in the act alluded to upon the subject of writs of error, and which were adjudicated upon by this court, in the case of Kennedy's heirs v. Duncan, Hardin's Rep. 365. In giving a construction to the act in question, therefore, it is proper that we should be governed by the principles settled in that case. It is proper we should do so, because that case was decided before the act of 1809 was enacted, and by employing language similar to that which had undergone judicial construction, it is most natural to suppose the legislature intended to be understood in the same sense. It results, therefore, according to the decision in the case cited from Hardin, that the infancy of one of the children of the ancestor of May, at the time of his death, prevented the statute of 1809 from continuing to run, and that the plaintiffs are entitled to maintain their action for the whole of the land in contest. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the case remanded, and judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiff on the verdict of the jury. Ky.App. 1823. May's Heirs v. Bennett 4 Litt. 311, 14 Ky. 311, 1823 WL 1292 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
