(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 122,  19 Ky. 122 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1211 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Campbell v. Williams. Nov. 23, 1825. *1 Guardian and Ward. Jurisdiction. Settlements. Commission. Interest. Parties. Statutes. APPEAL FROM THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT; WILLIAM L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Guardian and Ward 196 k 54 196 Guardian and Ward 196III Custody and Care of Ward's Person and Estate 196k54 k. Interest on Funds of Estate. Most Cited Cases Where a guardian neglects to settle each year, he should be charged with interest on the amount which would have been found against him each year if a settlement had been made. Guardian and Ward 196 k 126 196 Guardian and Ward 196V Actions 196k126 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases A., who had been guardian of B., brought his bill against C., his successor in that office, for an alleged balance.  C. filed a cross bill, alleging a balance to be due to B. Held, that B. should have been made a party to each suit. Guardian and Ward 196 k 163 196 Guardian and Ward 196VI Accounting and Settlement 196k163 k. Operation and Effect. Most Cited Cases The settlement of a guardian with the county court is to be deemed prima facie correct. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Campbell, who was one of the executors named in the will of Turner Morris, deceased, after the death of Morris, was appointed by the county court of Jessamine, guardian to John Morris, the infant son of the testator. Campbell appointed executor of Morris and guardian of his infant son. Campbell continued to act in the capacity of guardian for several years, and until he was displaced by the county court appointing Joel P. Williams guardian for the said John Morris. Campbell superseded as guardian, by the appointment of Williams. After this, commissioners were appointed to adjust and settle the accounts of Campbell, as guardian. The commissioners accordingly performed the duty assigned to them, and made report thereof to the county court, where it was ordered to be recorded. Settlement of Campbell's accounts by commissioners. By this report there appears to be a balance of seven hundred and fifty-five dollars and eighty-two cents in favor of Campbell, for which he sets up a claim against the estate of the ward, in the hands of Williams, as the present guardian, and exhibited his bill in equity, praying a decree against Williams for the amount, &c. Campbell's bill for balance against Williams. Williams answered, and, by appropriate allegations, made his answer a cross bill, admitting the appointment of Campbell as guardian to the infant son, John Morris, and his continuance to act in that capacity until he (Williams) was afterwards appointed. But in his answer, he protests against the justice of Campbell's claim, and charges, that in adjusting the accounts of Campbell, as guardian, and in making report thereof to the county court, the commissioners erred in various particulars. *2 Williams' answer and cross bill. 1st. That they refused to allow interest against Campbell on the amount of personal property sold by him, and on the proceeds of land rented and slaves hired for the ward. 2nd. That they failed to allow the full amount received by Campbell for the hire of the slaves. 3d. That more was allowed Campbell for his services, as guardian, than was either just or lawful. 4th. That Campbell was allowed for disbursements, sums to which he was not entitled, and which are unjust, &c. In his cross bill, Williams asks for a correction of the accounts, and prays a decree for whatever may be ascertained to be due from Campbell to his ward, upon an accurate settlement of his accounts, as guardian, &c. Campbell responded to the cross bill, urging the justness of the demand asserted by him in his original bill, and insisting upon the correctness of the report made by the commissioners appointed by the county court. Campbell's answer to Williams' cross bill. In the progress of the cause, the circuit court referred the accounts to an auditor, without giving any special instructions for his government, in making out a report. The auditor, however, made a statement of the accounts, and reported to court. The report presents the accounts in a two fold aspect. In one, Campbell is found debtor $1,332.11 3/4, and in the other, a balance of $1,116.54 3/4, is reported against him. Commissioners appointed on the accounts, and their report. Exceptions were taken to this report by Campbell; but they were overruled by the court, and a decree for the latter amount pronounced against him, in favor of Williams, upon the cross bill. Decree of the circuit court against Campbell. From that decree, Campbell appealed. Before we examine the merits of the decree, it is proper to premise, that as a settlement of the accounts of Campbell was made and approved by the county court, and as no notice was given at the time the accounts were passed, that any article thereof would be excepted to, the settlement must, prima facie, be presumed correct, unless shown to be false or unjust by Williams, the present guardian. Such is the effect which a settlement of a guardian's accounts by the county court, is declared by the statutes of this country (1 Dig. L. K. 643) to have, and such must be the effect to be given to the settlement with Campbell by the county court, in reviewing the decree which was pronounced against him in the present contest, by the court below. Settlement of guardian's accounts by commissioners appointed by the county court, returned and ordered to be recorded is, prima facie correct, and the party who would afterwards assail it, must prove his exceptions. Thus considering the effect of that settlement, we can have no hesitation in declaring that the report of the auditor, upon which the decree was predicated, can not, to its full extent, be sustained. The auditor has excluded many items which were contained in the account of Campbell, and which were allowed by the county court in the settlement, for disbursements, and we have been utterly incapable of discovering any evidence in the record, conducing to prove that any one of those items is either false or unjust. The executions which were taken to the auditor's report, so far as they relate to items of that sort, ought, therefore, to have been sustained, and the decree must, consequently be reversed. *3 Credits allowed the guardian in such settlement, shall not be disallowed in a subsequent suit, unless they be proved false or unjust. But as the cause must be remanded to the court below, it is proper to remark, that in allowing Campbell more than five per centum upon the amount of the estate of his ward, which came to his hands as guardian, for his personal services in managing the estate, the settlement with the county court is unjust, and ought to be corrected. Guardian shall not, however, be allowed more than five per cent. upon the amount of the estate. It was also incorrect, in that settlement, not to charge Campbell with interest on the amount which was found due from him at the end of each year. As guardian, it was his duty to settle with the county court at least once every year, and as he failed to do so, he should be charged with interest on the amount which would have been found against him, in each year, if a settlement had been made. Guardian who fails to make an annual settlement with the county court, shall pay interest on the balance to be ascertained in each year. In taking the account, it will, also be correct to charge Campbell with any additional sum, for which he may be proved to have hired the slaves of his ward, or rented his lands, or otherwise received for the sale of his personal property. The cross bill of Williams controverts the correctness of the settlement in that respect, and upon proof of the incorrectness, it would be competent, after causing the proper parties to be brought before the court, to make the correction. But neither in the original nor cross bill, are the necessary parties made, to authorize a decree upon the merits. The object of the original bill of Campbell, is, to recover a demand which he claims against the estate of the infant, for whom Williams is now guardian, and the object of Williams' cross bill, is, to recover the amount which he alleges to be due his ward from Campbell, as the former guardian, so that in fact the ward is essentially interested in the demand asserted by the complainant in each bill, and, upon well settled principles, ought to be made a party in each case, before a decree is pronounced upon the merits. In a bill by the superseded guardian against his successor, for balance, and cross bill by defendant against complainant for balance of the effects of the ward claimed by each to be in the others hands, the ward must be a party. The decree must, consequently, be reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below, with permission to Campbell, by an amendment to his original bill, to make the ward a party, and on his failure to do so, for that court to dismiss his bill with costs. Williams should, also, be permitted to amend his cross bill, by uniting his ward as a complainant, and if he should fail to do so, within such time as the court may allow, his bill must be dismissed with costs. But should the ward be made a party by both or either of the complainants in the court below, the suit or suits, as the case may be, should be prepared for a final hearing, and such a decree pronounced as may not be inconsistent with the principles of this opinion, and the equity of the case. Williams must pay the costs in this court. *4 Decree reversed for want of proper parties, and having been for actor on the merits, remanded for proper parties to be made, by uniting a complainant in one case, and making a defendant in the other. Payne, for appellant; Daviess, for appellee. Ky.App. 1825. Campbell v. Williams 3 T.B.Mon. 122, 19 Ky. 122, 1825 WL 1211 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
