(Cite as: 4 Bibb 495,  7 Ky. 495 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1066 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Camplin v. Brown. Apr. 11, 1817. *1 A variance between the promise laid and proved, held fatal. A receipt after the promise considered a discharge of the demand. West Headnotes Accord and Satisfaction 8 k 19 8 Accord and Satisfaction 8k15 Execution of Accord as Satisfaction 8k19 k. Acceptance of New Agreement. Most Cited Cases A receipt purporting to have been executed after the making of a promise made in the declaration, if under the accord of the parties, is a sufficient satisfaction to bar an action on the promise. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. WE are of opinion the Court below erred in not instructing the jury to find as in case of a non-suit. There is an essential variance between the promise laid in the declaration and that proven on the trial. The declaration alleges a promise to pay for the land leased three barrels of corn per acre, without mentioning at what place, and the proof shows a promise to pay three barrels of corn per acre when a former tenant had paid his rent corn; or if Brown chose, to be delivered at his own yard, etc. We are also of opinion that the Court erred in rejecting the written receipt offered by Camplin as evidence. That receipt purports to have been executed after the making of the promise laid in the declaration, but before the time when the corn should have been paid, and shows an acknowledgment by Brown of his having received a note from Camplin for five dollars, in full of all bonds, contracts, debts, dues and demands, up to its date, except a suit then depending. This receipt, as it is not under seal, was not, it is true, competent to show a release of the promise upon which this suit is brought; but as it applies to all contracts, it was certainly admissible to show the receipt by Brown of a note for five dollars, in full of the present demand; and if the note was so received, as it must have been given since the act of 1812, regulating proceedings in civil cases, the original promise was thereby not only so merged in the note that assumpsit could not thereafter be maintained upon it, but the receipt of the note, if under the accord of the parties, would be a sufficient satisfaction to bar an action upon the promise. The receipt should, therefore, have been admitted as evidence; but when admitted, if obtained through fraud, mistake, or other undue means, Brown should be allowed to show those circumstances for the purpose of repelling its operation. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below, and such further proceedings there had as may be consistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1817. Camplin v. Brown 4 Bibb 495, 7 Ky. 495, 1817 WL 1066 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
