(Cite as: 4 Bibb 308,  7 Ky. 308 (Ky.),  1816 WL 736 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lemmon v. Brown. Apr. 9, 1816. *1 The assignee brought his bill to compel a conveyance of land, but did not make the assignor a party; the bond being assigned, when by law it was assignable, resolved that it was not necessary to make assignor a party. What shall be the measure of compensation, where the covenantor without fraud is unable to convey--Acc. vol. 2, Cox v. Strode, 276 to 280. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 239(6) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(C) Bona Fide Purchasers 400k239 Title and Rights Acquired by Bona Fide Purchasers  and Equities and Defenses Against Them 400k239(6) k. Protection of Purchaser of Legal Title.  Most Cited Cases A bona fide purchaser of land without notice of any equity or title in favor of a third person is not affected thereby. Assignments 38 k 129 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k129 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases Where all the interest of an assignor is devested by the assignment, he ceases to be a necessary party to an action for the enforcement of the claim assigned. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was a suit in chancery, brought by Brown in the Court below for the purpose of obtaining a conveyance to parts of two lots in the town of Georgetown, or compensation in damages, under a purchase made by a certain Julius Adams from the present plaintiff Lemmon, and through whom under various intermediate contracts Brown claims title. Richard M. Gano appears from the exhibits in the cause to have obtained the legal title to one of the lots through James Lemmon, under whom John Lemmon when he sold to Adams also claimed; and the Court below being of opinion that Gano was a bona fide purchaser without notice, refused relief against him, but decreed that Lemmon the present plaintiff should convey that part of the lot to which he had title, and make compensation for the other part of a lot held by Gano, according to its value at the time of taking an inquest of its value. That Court certainly decided very correctly in dismissing Brown's bill as to Gano; for as he is clearly shown to be a fair purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice of a prior equity, there is no principle upon which a Court of Equity can compel him to surrender his legal title; and with respect to the claim against Lemmon, we are also of opinion, notwithstanding Julius Adams was not before the Court, that Brown has sufficiently shown himself entitled to relief. The answer of Lemmon not only admits the purchase by Adams, but his obligation exhibited in the cause conclusively proves it; and as that obligation was given at a time when by law it was legally assignable, and as it also appears to have been regularly assigned by Adams, there can have been no necessity to make him a party: for as by the assignment the assignee acquired a legal right, and might have maintained an action at law in his own name upon the obligation, no reason is perceived requiring his assignor to be a party to a suit brought upon the obligation in equity. *2 With respect to the amount of compensation which Brown should recover for that part of the lot held by Gano, we are however of opinion the decree of the Court below cannot be sustained. The exhibits in the cause, so far from establishing a fraud on Lemmon, either in selling or failing to convey that part of the lot, conclusively show that he acted honestly in the sale, and has been prevented by no fault in him from perfecting the title. Under such circumstances it would ill accord with the principles of justice, and certainly violate the rules by which this Court have been repeatedly governed, to compel Lemmon to pay the increased value of that part of the lot. The decree of the Court must therefore, as to Lemmon, be reversed, the cause remanded, and a decree there entered for a conveyance to that part of the lot to which Lemmon has title, and compensation for the other part according to its value at the date of the contract, with interest. Ky.App. 1816. Lemmon v. Brown 4 Bibb 308, 7 Ky. 308, 1816 WL 736 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
