(Cite as: 4 Bibb 347,  7 Ky. 347 (Ky.),  1816 WL 763 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Coleman v. Edwards. May 31, 1816. *1 On a scire facias the variance is fatal, if the judgment recited therein is alleged to have been rendered by a Court holden for the district of Paris, and the record produced in evidence shows a judgment of the District Court holden in Paris, composed of the counties of Bourbon, Harrison, and Nicholas. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 870(6) 228 Judgment 228XIX Suspension, Enforcement, and Revival 228k870 Scire Facias to Revive Judgment 228k870(6) k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases Where a scire facias alleged the judgment to have been rendered by a court holden for the district of Paris, and the record produced in evidence contained a judgment of the district court holden in Paris, composed of the counties of Bourbon, Harrison, and Nicholas, the variance is fatal. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THERE is a material variance between the judgment recited in the scire facias sued out by Coleman in the Court below, and that contained in the record produced by him in that Court to support the issue on his part joined to the plea of nul tiel record. The scire facias alleges the judgment to have been rendered by a Court holden for the district of Paris; and the record produced in evidence contains a judgment of the District Court holden in Paris, composed of the counties of Bourbon, Harrison, and Nicholas. The variance between the judgment recited in the scire facias and that contained in the record produced in evidence, must, according to the settled doctrine of the law upon that subject, be held fatal to Coleman's right to recover in the present case. To maintain the issue on his part, it was not enough to produce the record of a judgment between the same parties, and corresponding in amount with that recited in the scire facias, but it should also appear to be a judgment of the same Court. It has ever been held that a variance in the name of any party, or his abode, or addition, is fatal.--1 Roll. 751, cited 6 Com. Dig. 173. So where the judgment was alleged to be of Hillary Term, and the record proved a judgment of Easter Term, the variance was held fatal.--Com. Digest. 173. So of a variance in the number of parties.--Ibid. These authorities, while they show the strictness adhered to by Courts in the trial of issues like that between the present parties, are conclusive to show that the Court below decided correctly in holding the variance between the judgment recited in the scire facias, and that proved by the record, fatal. The judgment must be affirmed, with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Coleman v. Edwards 4 Bibb 347, 7 Ky. 347, 1816 WL 763 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
