(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 208,  10 Ky. 208 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1200 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Cracken's Heirs v. Beall & Bowman. Dec. 5, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(.5) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(.5) k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 317k151) An entry made in the name of a deceased grantee can take date only from the passage of the act of 1792, declaring that such grants shall descend to the representatives of the grantees, and not relate back to defeat any title which others may have acquired in the meantime under an adverse claim. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: To obtain from the appellees a surrender of their legal title, derived under a patent which issued to Jacob Myers the 2d Dec., 1785, the appellants exhibited their bill in the circuit court, claiming the superior equity, under the following certificate and entry, in the name of Isaac M'Cracken, their ancestor. January 7th, 1780.--Isaac M'Cracken this day claimed a pre-emption of 1,000 acres of land, at the state price, in the district of Kentucky, lying on Cartright's creek, a branch of Salt river, running down the said creek for quantity, to include his cabin, by marking and improving the same in the year 1775, satisfactory proof being made to the court, they are of opinion that said M'Cracken has a right to a pre-emption of 1,000 acres of land to include the said improvement, and that a certificate issue accordingly: 25th December, 1782.--Isaac M'Cracken enters a pre-emption warrant of 1,000 acres, No. 1309, on the first fork of Cartright's creek, below Cartright's station, to include his improvement, and to extend up and down both sides of the creek for quantity. This entry was surveyed, not in a rectangular figure, but on both sides of Cartright's creek, including M'Cracken's improvement near the creek, and just elow the first fork of the creek below Cartright's station, and extending up and down the creek much longer than wide. At the date of the entry, a trace passed by the improvement to Cartright's station, and the station, creek, and improvement are proven to have been, at that time, generally known to those conversant in the vicinity, so that there could have been no difficulty, by the exercise of ordinary diligence, in a subsequent locator finding the improvement. But there is delineated upon the connected plat, a fork of Cartright's creek, emptying there in a few poles below Cartright's station, and above the fork upon which M'Cracken's improvement is found; and it is contended, that instead of the lower fork, the locator of the entry intended the land should lie on the upper. It is evident, however, from the contiguity of the upper fork to the station, the locator intended his land should be on the lower, and not the upper fork. If the upper fork was the one intended, the claim would, of necessity, cover the station; and from the description contained in the entry, it is not to be presumed that any part of the land was intended to include the station. Besides, if the locator had designed to appropriate the land around the station, the station itself, from its great notoriety, would have furnished a much more suitable object of location, than that of the fork of the creek. *2 An entry calling "to include an improvement and to run up and down both sides of the creek for quantity," is to be surveyed rectan-gularly and square-- the creek to bisect the upper and lower lines in its ingress and egress, those lines to be equi distant from the improvement and the side lines parallel to the general course of that part of the creek to be enclosed in the survey. Instead of the mode which has been pursued in making the survey, however, the entry should have been surveyed in a rectangular figure with lines of equal length, and so as the upper and lower lines would be equi distant from the improvement, and the creek to bisect those lines in the centre, and the lines on each side of the creek to extend parallel to the general course of the creek. By this mode of surveying, the line will lie on both sides of the creek, and upon the first fork of the creek emptying therein on the east side and below the station, and include the improvement. Notwithstanding, however, the entry might, from the proof in the cause, be otherwise sustained, there exists in the record one objection to it, not to be gotten over. The objection to which we allude, is that of Isaac M'Cracken, in whose name it was made, having, previously to its date, departed this life. He is proven to have been at the battle with the Indians at the Blue licks, in August, 1782; and, from the evidence in the cause, we apprehend, he was among the unfortunate sufferers who fell in that disastrous conflict. No witness has spoken positively of his having fallen there, but his brother thinks he afterwards recognized his person among the slain; and after disappearing on the day of battle, he has never, either by those who were taken captives by the Indians, or any others, been heard of since. An entry made in the name of a dead man is void at common law, but comes under the equity of the act of 1792, which makes grants enure to the benefit of the representatives of a deceased grantee, but the entry, no matter when made, in the name of a dead man, can take date only from the passage of that act, and can not relate back so as to defeat a title acquired before that act. He must, therefore, be supposed to have then departed this life, and however strong the claim of the representatives of him who thus fell in the defense of his country, may press upon the feelings and sympathies of the court, yet testing their case by the rules and principles of law, and it is according to those rules and principles their case must be tested, the principle is not perceived upon which the entry, thereafter made in the name of their ancestor, can be sustained. It has heretofore been held, that a grant to a dead man is inoperative; and if the grant be void, it would seem to follow, that an entry made under similar circumstances, can not be valid. To acquire title under the land laws of Virginia, before a grant can be obtained, an entry and survey were essentially necessary. And whatever may have been the inducements with the legislature, to require those things to be done, as they have thought proper to do so, those requisitions must be conformed to, in the name of the living, and not of the dead. Indeed, we cannot imagine how it is possible for any act, necessary to the acquisition of right, to be done in the name of a dead person, and at the same time have any legal operation. After his decease, the dead person, has no rights, and no rights can be acquired by others in his name. Such rights as the decedent may possess in lands, at the time of his death, may, by operation of law, descend upon his heirs, but then as the right is in them, if it be inchoate, and not complete, it must be perfected in their names, and not in the name of their deceased ancestor. *3 We have thus considered the operation which the entry in the name of M'Cracken, possessed when it was made; but since then, at the session of 1792,  (1 Littell, 160), the legislature of this country, after reciting that, in some instances grants have issued in the names of persons who were deceased prior to the date of the grant, and cases of the same nature may happen in future; enacted, that in all such cases, the land conveyed shall descend to the heir, heirs, or devisees, in the same manner as it would do, had the grant issued in the lifetime of such decedent. It becomes proper, therefore, that we should enquire as to the effect which this statute has produced upon the entry of M'Cracken. And it should here be remarked that the entry of M'Cracken was not only made in his name, but the survey was also made and the patent issued in his name. According to the letter of the act cited, therefore, the patent of M'Cracken must ensue to the benefit of his heirs; but still the question recurs as to the effect of the act upon the entry and survey. The letter of the act, perhaps does not, strictly speaking, apply to either an entry or survey; but when the object and intention of the legislature is adverted to, we apprehend, there can be little doubt, but that both entries and surveys were designed to be embraced by the act. In fact, by making valid the grant, that which perfects and consummates the title, seems strongly to imply an intention to cure all defects of the same description of that which vitiated the grant, in relation to any previous step necessary to the perfecting of the title. But whilst the act is admited to embrace entries as well as grants, it is plain that. until its enactment, it can have had no operation, and consequently until then, the entry of M'Cracken can have conferred no right upon his heirs; and after then, the act should not be construed so as to make the entry, by relating back to its date, overreach any title which others in the mean time, may have acquired under an adverse claim. In the present case then, as the title of Myers emanated from the commonwealth of Virginia in 1785, prior to the passage of the act, it follows that, under the entry of M'Cracken with the surveyor, the appellants can not be entitled to relief. But the appellants' claim for relief is not asserted exclusively under the entry with the surveyor; their ancestor in his lifetime, had obtained from the proper authority, a pre-emption certificate; and under that certificate, as well as the entry, they have sought relief. Assuming the certificate to contain the requisite precision and certainty of description, and in the present contest we shall so consider it, there is no question but that it conferred upon M'Cracken, in his lifetime, a pre-emptive right to the land therein described, and upon his death, that right by operation of law, descended upon his heirs, the present appellants. It is obvious, however, that the certificates, unaided by an entry with the surveyor, can not confer upon the appellants a right to recover against an adverse claim. *4 The appellants might, no doubt, by causing an entry to be made with the surveyor, and carrying the same into grant, have overreached any adverse title, derived under an entry, junior in date to the certificate; but to enable them to do so, it is indispensable that an entry should have been made with the surveyor, within the time prescribed for locating certificates; for unless located within the proper time, the right of pre-emption becomes extinct under the law authorizing certificates to be granted. Although a certificate for pre-emption, confers the pre-emptive right on the grantee, yet that right is lost if not exercised by entry in the proper name within the time limited for entering the pre-emption warrants. The entry under which the appellant's assert their claim, is not, however, one of that character. It was, no doubt, made in due time, but it was made in the name of a dead man, and being inoperative for that cause, can not have preserved to the appellants the right of pre-emption. By the act of this country already cited, it is true the legislature have, (as far as it was practicable for them to do), confirmed the entry. But before the passage of the act, and before the separation of this state from Virginia, the right of pre-emption gained by the appellants under the certificate, had become extinct, and as the patent of Myers had been previously obtained, his right, at the separation, must have been complete. The act of this country, therefore, cannot, either by reviving the right of pre-emption, or making the entry relate back to its date, have any prejudicial effect on the right of those claiming under the patent of Myers. For the seventh clause of the compact between the states, declares, that all private rights and interest of lands, within the then district (now this state) derived from the laws of Virginia prior to the separation, shall remain valid and secure under the laws of this state, and shall be determined by the laws then existing in the state of Virginia. And to extend relief to the appellants under the act of 1792, would not only be determining by the laws of this country, instead of those of Virginia in force at the separation, the right of Myers derived under the laws of that state, but would moreover be prostrating that right which, by the compact, is required to remain valid and secure. A title to lands completed before the separation of this state from Virginia, can not be effected by an act of the Kentucky legislature. Upon the whole, we think, the appellants have not shewn themselves entitled to relief, and that the court below consequently properly decreed a dismissal of their bill. The decree must be affirmed with cost. Ky.App. 1820. McCracken's Heirs v. Beall 3 A.K.Marsh. 208, 10 Ky. 208, 1820 WL 1200 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
