(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 422,  10 Ky. 422 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1120 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Bank of The United Stater v. Norton et al. Jun. 1, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Banks and Banking 52 k 98 52 Banks and Banking 52III Functions and Dealings 52III(A) Banking Franchises and Powers, and Their Exercise in General 52k98 k. Negotiable Instruments. Most Cited Cases Under the charter of the bank of the United States authorizing it to purchase, receive, and retain lands, rents, goods, chattels, and effects of whatsoever kind, up to a specified limit, the bank has authority to purchase and receive notes of individuals given to secure the payment of money, and is authorized to sue for the recovery of debts evidenced thereby. Courts 106 k 97(5) 106 Courts 106II Establishment, Organization, and Procedure 106II(G) Rules of Decision 106k88 Previous Decisions as Controlling or as  Precedents 106k97 Decisions of United States Courts as Authority in  State Courts 106k97(5) k. Construction of Federal  Constitution, Statutes, and Treaties. Most Cited Cases State courts are bound to conform their decisions to those of the supreme court of the United States on all questions involving the construction of the constitution of the United States. Interest 219 k 24 219 Interest 219I Rights and Liabilities in General 219k24 k. Interest in Advance. Most Cited Cases The ninth rule of the fundamental articles in the charter of the United States Bank does not prohibit the bank from discounting promissory notes. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: On the 3d of July, 1819, George Norton executed a note by which he promised to pay Daniel Halstead or order, sixty days after date, $4,700, at the office of discount and deposit of the United States Bank at Lexington. The note was afterwards assigned by Halstead to Venable, and by Venable to Adams, by Adams to Joshua Norton, and by Norton to the president, directors and company of the bank of the United States. To recover the amount of the note, the bank brought a petition and summons against Norton, the payor. The petition sets out the note, and the several assignments thereon in haec verba, and in all other respects conforms to the requisitions of the act of the legislature of this country giving that remedy. Norton demurred to the petition, and the demurrer being joined by the bank, the court rendered judgment in bar of the bank's action. From that judgment the bank has appealed to this court. The assignment of errors question the decision of the court on the demurrer. In reversing the decision of that court, the legal and constitutional existence of the banks will be assumed as a proposition not now admitting of controversy. The share holders of the bank have been incorporated by an act of the Congress of the United States; and that act of incorporation has been held, by the Supreme Court of the Nation, not to be any infraction of the constitution of the U. States: A court deriving from that constitution jurisdiction in all cases, in law and equity, arising under the constitution and laws of the United States, and possessing appellate jurisdiction over the final judgments and decrees of the highest courts of law or equity of any State, in all cases involving the construction of any clause of the constitution, or statute of the United States, and whose exposition of the constitution or statutes of the United States is conclusive on all state courts throughout the U. States. *2 The supreme court of the Union has a right on all questions arising under the constitution or any statute of the U. States to decide; they possess appellate jurisdiction from the state courts on those questions, and the state courts are bound by their opinion. 2 Mar., 99, acc. The decision of the court below was not, however, in argument attempted to be maintained on the ground of the bank not having been constitutionally established, but it was contended that under the act of incorporation, the bank is inhibited from purchasing debts or choses in action of any description except bills of exchange; and it was urged, that the assignment to the bank, of itself, implies a purchase by the bank of Norton's note; and hence it was insisted that the bank should not be allowed to maintain its action on the note. If the bank be at liberty to take notes in security for the repayment of money loaned, (and that it is, there can be no question) it would not follow, that the court decided correctly in sustaining Norton's demurrer, even were it conceded that the bank is not, according to the popular acceptation of the expression, purchase, permitted to purchase notes on others. For if the bank may take notes in security, it may for that purpose receive an assignment of the notes, and by the assignment the legal right will pass to the bank, and possessing the legal right, and as incident thereto, the bank as assignee will be entitled to sue on the note. It forms no argument against the bank's right of suit in such a case, that the assignment may have been made on other considerations than to secure the repavment of money actually loaned. If it were so made, the fact might be made appear by averment of the defendant, but as the forms of pleading do not require the assignee in an action on the assigned instrument, to allege the consideration of the assignment, it is sufficient, on a demurrer to his petition, or declaration, that the plaintiff may be an assignee and has in fact an assignment of the note on which he has commenced his action. But supposing we are mistaken in this, and conceding for the present, that the assignment, ex vi termini, implies a purchase to have been made by the bank of Norton's note, we will proceed to inquire, whether, or not, from any thing contained in the act of incorporation the bank is interdicted from purchasing such notes. The first section of the act declares, that a bank of the United States of America, with a capital of thirty-five millons of dollars, divided into three hundred and fifty thousand shares of one hundred dollars each, shall be established. The seventh section, after incorporating the subscribers to the bank, and giving the bank a name, and after limiting its duration, declares that, they, by that name shall be, and are hereby made able and capable, in law, to have, purchase, receive, possess, enjoy and retain to them and their successors, lands, rents, tenements, and hereditaments, goods, chattels, and effects, of whatsoever kind, nature and quality, to an amount not exceeding in the whole, fifty five millons of dollars, including the amount of capital stock; and the same to sell, grant, demise, alien or dispose of; to sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered, defend and be defended, in all state courts having competent jurisdiction, and in any circuit court of the United States; and also to make, have and use a common seal, and the same to break, alter and renew, at their pleasure, &c. *3 Were this the only provision in the act having any bearing on the question, there would be no rational ground to controvert the right of the bank to purchase notes. The bank would then not only possess those rights, which result incidentally to corporations of its nature; but its right to purchase, might be asserted under the express provisions of the act; for although notes are not specifically named in that provision which authorizes the bank to purchase, the expression, effects, therein employed, is sufficiently comprehensive to embrace them, and when considered in connection with the other expressions employed, apply with peculiar propriety to all choses in action. The bank of the United States is authorized to purchase the notes of individuals. But at the close of the seventh section it is moreover provided, that all and singular the acts, matters and things which to the bank may appertain to do, shall be subject, nevertheless, to the rules, regulations, restrictions, limitations and provisions in the act thereafter prescribed and declared. And by the ninth article, which among others is adopted, by the eleventh section of the act, as rules, restrictions, limitations, and provisions, forming fundamental articles of the constitution of the corporation, it is declared, that, "the said corporation shall not, directly or indirectly, deal or trade in any thing except bills of exchange, gold or silver bullion, or in the sale of goods, really and truly pledged for money loaned and not redeemed in due time, or goods which shall be the proceeds of its lands. It shall not be at liberty to purchase any public debt whatever, nor shall it take more than at the rate of six per cent. per annum for or upon its loans or discounts." It is upon the construction to be given to the expressions, deal or trade, employed in this article, that the right of the bank to purchase promissory notes must turn. This article forms a component part of the constitution of the corporation--by the constitution the bank was created--from it, the bank derives all of its rights and capacities; and beyond the limits presented by the constitution, the bank can not be permitted to go; and if those limits should be transcended by the bank, no right can thereby be acquired. But is the bank restricted, by any thing in this article, from purchasing promissory notes? If by employing the expressions, deal or trade, Congress is understood to have intended to prevent the bank from purchasing any thing but bills of exchange, or gold and silver bullion, there is a restriction; but if such were not its intention, there is no restriction. We say "intended by Congress," and this we say, because it is a rule, of universal application to every species of writings, so to construe them as best to answer the intention of their makers. This rule has long since been applied to statutes, and has, from its intrinsic propriety, and a train of numerous adjudications, become a fundamental principle in their construction. 6 Bac. Abri. 380. Plow. 232. 11 Rep. 73. *4 Of such high and pre-eminent consideration is the intention of the Legislature, that it is said, a thing which is within the letter of the statute, is not within the statute, unless it be within the intention of the makers. Plow. 19. So, a thing within the intention of the makers of a statute, is said to be as much within the statute, as if it were within the letter. Plow. 366. In construing statutes, other rules have also been resorted to, not, however, to defeat the intention of the makers, but as auxiliary rules to assist in searching out the intention, and whenever the intention is ascertained, the construction must conform to it. If then the intention of the Legislature is to be regarded, and we give to the expressions, deal or trade, that construction which we suppose must have been intended by Congress, they cannot be admitted to form any restraint on the right of the corporation to purchase. If they form any restraint, the restriction must, according to the general language employed, extend to the purchase of every thing, except bills of exchange, or gold or silver bullion; for the expressions are general, that the corporation shall not directly, or indirectly, deal or trade in any thing except bills of exchange or gold or silver bullion. From those expressions, therefore, to impute an intention in Congress, not to allow the corporation to purchase any thing, but bills of exchange, or gold or silver bullion, would be subjecting that Legislature, to the strange inconsistency, of having created a bank, with a capital of thirty-five millions of dollars, and yet, not given to it the capacity of commencing its banking operations--of having, even, interdicted the purchase of those articles without the purchase of which a solitary note could not be issued by the bank. It would, moreover, subject Congress to the further inconsistency, of having, in a subsequent article of the constitution or charter of the bank, taken from the bank a right which had been expressly given to it in a previous article. For the ninth article, which employs the expressions, deal or trade, contains no exception, or saving in favor of the right of the corporation to purchase lands; and the seventh article, gives to the corporation, in express terms, the right of purchasing lands, at sales under its own judgments, and receiving conveyances in satisfaction of debts, previously contracted in the course of its business. But the latter clause of the ninth article places the intention of Congress in employing those expressions out of question--it shews, conclusively, that it was not designed by the expressions, deal or trade, to prohibit the corporation from purchasing--it demonstrates, that Congress understood the corporation might, notwithstanding those expressions, purchase, and to prevent it from buying any debt on the country, the clause, to which we allude, declares, that the corporation shall not be at liberty to purchase any public debt whatsoever. *5 But it may be asked, for what purpose can the expressions "deal or trade" have been employed. We answer--not to restrict the bank in its right to purchase, but to denote what things may, or may not be both bought and sold by the bank. But to this construction of those expressions, it may be replied, that they are employed in a different sense in the twelfth section of the act of incorporation, and it may be contended that the same expressions, when used in different parts of the same act, ought to have the same construction given to them. It is true, in the twelfth section of the act, it is declared, "if the said corporation, or any person or persons, for, or to the use of, the same, shall deal or trade in buying or selling, goods, wares or merchandise, or commodities, whatever, contrary to the provisions of the act, all and every person and persons, by whom any order or direction for so dealing or trading shall have been given, and all and every person and persons, who shall have been concerned as parties or agents therein, shall forfeit and lose triple the value of the goods, wares and merchandise, and commodities, in which such dealing and trade shall have been," &c. From the peculiar phraseology of this section, it is perfectly clear that the expressions "deal or trade," are therein employed in a sense different from that which we have supposed was intended in the ninth article, and we were at first inclined to construe those expressions in the same sense in the ninth article, that they seem evidently to imply in the twelfth. But on the further reflection, and a more attentive examination of the various provisions of the act, we have become satisfied, that those expressions were not intended by Congress to be employed in the same sense, in those parts of the act to which we have referred. We know that it is not uncommon, in construing statutes, to attach the same meaning, to the same expressions, when employed in different parts of the same statute; but that is always done to effect what is supposed to be the intention of the law makers, and whenever, from other parts of the statute, the intention appears to be otherwise, the intention must prevail, and the expressions employed so construed as best to answer that intention. We have, from other parts of the act, already seen in what sense the expressions, "deal or trade" were intended to be employed in the ninth article; and from the phraseology of the twelfth section there can be no doubt those expressions were intended to be, therein, employed in a different sense. The difference in the import of those expressions does not, however, result merely from being employed in different sections of the act, but by superadding to the expressions, "deal or trade," those other expressions, "in buying and selling," the expressions, "deal or trade," are made to convey a different import to that which they would otherwise imply. Indeed, Congress seemingly aware that words employed in one sense, might, if afterwards employed in the same statute, be construed in the same sense, and recollecting, when about to employ the expressions "deal or trade" in the twelfth section, the sense in which they had been employed in the ninth article, appears to have designedly superadded the expressions, "in buying and selling," to give to the expressions, "deal or trade," a sense different from that in which they had previously been employed. *6 By thus construing the expressions, "deal or trade," and giving to them, whenever employed, that signification which was intended by the law makers, a consistency may be maintained between the different parts of the act of incorporation. The bank will then be at liberty to deal or trade in both buying and selling bills of exchange and gold and silver bullion. It will be at liberty to purchase lands, tenements, hereditaments, goods, chattels and effects, to an amount not exceeding fifty-five millions of dollars including its capital stock; but the lands must be such as are requisite for its immediate accommodation in relation to the convenient transaction of its business, or such as may be mortgaged to it by way of security, or conveyed to it in satisfaction of debts previously contracted in the course of its dealings, or purchased at sales upon judgments which shall have been obtained for such debts. But it will not be at liberty to purchase any public debt whatever. It may sell such goods and chattels only as may be pledged to it to secure the repayment of money actually loaned, or which may be the proceeds of its lands. And if it should either buy, or sell any goods, wares, merchandise, or commodity, whatever, contrary to the provisions of the act, all and every person or persons concerned in the purchase or sale, will be liable to forfeit and lose treble the value of the goods, wares, merchandise and commodities, so purchased or sold. Upon the whole, we think the bank had a right to purchase the note on Norton, and that Norton's demurrer should have been overruled by the court below. The judgment must consequently be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to that court and further proceedings there had not inconsistent with this opinion. Wickliffe & Clay, for appellants; Humphries and Haggin, contra. Ky.App. 1821. Bank of U.S. v. Norton 3 A.K.Marsh. 422, 10 Ky. 422, 1821 WL 1120 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
