(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 499,  10 Ky. 499 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1147 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Burton and Jarman v. Emerine. Jun. 8, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 485 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k472 Plea, Answer, or Affidavit of Defense 56k485 k. Verification. Most Cited Cases A plea contesting a note because it was given for money with which to play at cards need not be verified by oath. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action brought by Emerine in the circuit court, upon the covenant of Burton and Jarman to pay him eighty dollars and eighty cents, in good notes, on men in the county of Madison, against the 19th of January, 1820. Burton and Jarman appeared in court and offered to file the following plea, viz: "The defendants come and defend the, &c. upon, &c. and say actio non, because they say the note upon which the plaintiff has instituted his suit against them, was given in consideration and to secure the payment of $     then and  there loaned and advanced to said defendants, to be let or staked upon a certain game called a game of cards, in which said defendants then were engaged, and this they, the said defendants, are ready to verify, & c." The filing of this plea was objected to by the counsel of Emerine, on the ground of its not being verified by oath, and the court sustained the objection, and excluded the plea. A plea contesting a note because it was given for money lent to play at cards with, need not be verified by oath. We are of opinion the objection was improperly sustained. The plea, we suppose, contains substantially every necessary allegation to shew the invalidity of the writing upon which the suit is founded, under the law concerning gaming; and we know of no law that requires such a plea to be verified by oath. There is an act of this country, of 1801,  2 Littell, 440, which precludes a defendant from denying the execution of any writing upon which the suit is founded, unless it be done by plea, supported by the affidavit of the party pleading; but the plea which was tendered in this case, contains no denial of the execution of the writing, and, consequently, does not come within the influence of the act alluded to. There is also contained in the session acts of 1814, page 397, a provision which requires, in a described class of cases, special pleas, impeaching or going into the consideration of writings to be supported by the affidavit of the party pleading, and it is presumed that it was under that act the court sustained the objection taken to the plea of the defendants. By adverting to that provision of the act, however, it will be apparent that it does not apply to such a plea as the one under consideration. The provision contained in that act declares, "that when any defendant or defendants, in any action founded on any specialty or note in writing, shall, by special plea, impeach, or go into the consideration of any such instrument, under the act of assembly, entitled "an act to amend an act entitled an act to reduce into one the several acts for preventing vexatious suits, and regulating proceedings in civil cases," approved the 8th day of December, in the year one thousand eight hundred and one, he shall support such plea by affidavit, stating therein, that the facts therein contained are true, as far as detailed as such from his own knowledge, and that he believes them to be so, as far as detailed as such, from the information of others." *2 Were the facts contained in the plea in question such as could only be pleaded under the act of 1801, we should admit that they ought to have been supported by an affidavit. But the facts contained in the plea are evidently of a character, which, without the aid of the act of 1801, would have formed an available defense to the action of Emerine. These facts, if true, shew that the writing on which the action is founded, is void under the law concerning gaming; and wherever a writing is declared void by a statute, it was always admissible for a defendant in an action founded on such writing to avoid it by plea. The plea in question, therefore, is not a plea impeaching or going into the consideration of the writing upon which Emerine's suit is founded under the act of 1801, and as it is only such pleas as are allowed by the act of 1801, that are required by the provision of the act of 1814 to be supported by affidavit, there can have been no necessity for such an affidavit from Burton and Jarman. The act of 1814, authorizing the impeachment of the consideration, but requiring an affidavit, is confined to pleas given by that statute, and does not extend to pleas given before that act. The judgment of the court against Burton and Jarman must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and permission given them there to file the plea, and such other and further proceedings there had, as may not be inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1821. Burton v. Emerine 3 A.K.Marsh. 499, 10 Ky. 499, 1821 WL 1147 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
