(Cite as: 4 Bibb 94,  7 Ky. 94 (Ky.),  1815 WL 676 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cox v. Joiner. Jun. 5, 1815. *1 Lands may be sold by virtue of a fi. fa. for costs. A venditioni exponas gives no new authority to sell; but by virtue of the former execution the sheriff had authority to sell property taken in execution after the return day. And to sell on the day on which the venditioni exponas bears date, is not irregular. If a motion to quash a sale of land under execution, for fraud or covin, is not commenced within one year according to the statute, the Court may refuse to inquire into facts dehors the record upon motion. Particularly where the plaintiff in the motion is in possession, has a competent remedy to try the question, and can sustain no injury by the refusal of the Court. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 221 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k221 k. Time of Sale. Most Cited  Cases Where a sheriff levied a fieri facias on land before the return day, and received a venditioni exponas after the return day of the fieri facias, and sold the land at auction on the day of the date of the venditioni exponas, it was held that the venditioni exponas conferred no new authority to sell, and that proceedings were regular. Costs 102 k 279 102 Costs 102XIII Remedies for Collection 102k279 k. Execution or Precept. Most Cited Cases Land may be sold, by virtue of a fieri facias, on a judgment for costs as well as on any other judgment. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE defendant in error had issued against the estate of the plaintiff, in virtue of a judgment for costs, a writ of fieri facias, and caused it to be levied by the sheriff upon a lot of ground in the town of Winchester; but the return day of the fieri facias having elapsed before the day of sale, the sheriff made return thereof to the clerk's office from whence it issued, and obtained a venditioni exponas, and on the same day it bears date exposed the lot to sale, and took from the purchaser bond with security for the purchase money, as required by law. Subsequent to this the plaintiff had a notice regularly served upon the defendant and Samuel Hanson, who became the purchaser of the lot under the execution, and moved the Circuit Court of Clarke, from whose office the fieri facias issued, to quash the execution, sale, and bond; but the Court refused to hear evidence dehors the record and proceedings, and being of opinion there was no irregularity apparent on the face of the proceedings, overruled the motion. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the Court, and the case brought to this Court by writ of error. In deciding this case two inquiries are presented for consideration; 1. With respect to the questions of law apparent on the face of the proceedings; and 2. As to the correctness of the decision of that Court in refusing to permit parol evidence to establish other irregularities dehors the record. *2 In making the first inquiry, two questions arise for decision--1. Can land be sold under a fieri facias issued upon a judgment for costs? And if it can, 2. Was it regular to sell the lot in question on the day the venditioni exponas bears date? An answer to the first question is to be found in the act subjecting lands to the payment of debts. By that act it is expressly provided that lands may be sold in satisfaction of all judgments. To apply that act to one class of judgments, in exclusion of any other, would require an arbitrary construction, in direct hostility to its provisions, and such as cannot be warranted by any precedent or principle. With respect to the second question, we have no doubt but what the sale may have been regularly made on the day the venditioni exponas issued. That execution gave the sheriff no new authority FN(a). Although the fieri facias under which the levy was made had become returnable, the authority of the sheriff did not thereby become extinct: it was his duty still to proceed in the completion of the execution of that writ by making sale of the land; and for a failure to do so, he would be not only liable to the plaintiff in the fieri facias, but he might also be proceeded against for a contempt of the Court. The venditioni exponas could, therefore, have no operation but to compel the sheriff to perform his duty under the original writ; and hence it could not require the sheriff again to advertise or do any other act which had been previously regularly done. FN(a). Accord. Irvine v. Pickett, vol. 3, 344. Whether the sheriff regularly advertised the time and place of sale, and in other respects performed his duty correctly in selling the lot, are points to which the parol evidence was intended to apply: and whether the Court below acted correctly in rejecting that evidence, forms the subject of the second branch of our inquiry. We have not thought it material to decide upon the competency of the evidence offered: for admitting its competency, it could not affect the regularity of the writ under which the sale was made; and as it conduced to the establishment of facts dehors the record, tending in some respects to impeach the validity of the sale, the refusal of the Court to try those facts by way of motion, does not form the proper subject of reversal by this Court. It is true by the act of 1810 (4 Littell 278) all covinous or fraudulent sales of land made by sheriffs under writs of fieri facias, may by motion be avoided, if commenced within one year; and as the evidence which was rejected by the Court below might in some degree conduce to prove such a fraud, that evidence, in a proceeding under the act, if competent, should be admitted; but inasmuch as the motion in this case was not commenced within one year from the sale by the sheriff, the plaintiff has not brought himself within that act, and consequently cannot avail himself of its benefits. But it is contended that although the plaintiff may not have brought his case within the influence of the act of 1810, yet as at common law, he had a right by motion to the decision of the Court upon the facts and law in relation to the validity of the sale; and as the limitation of one year applies only to proceedings under the act, it is urged the evidence should not have been rejected. *3 Whether at common law it would be regular in any possible case to quash a sale made by an officer under an execution, for fraud, collusion, or any other improper act extraneous the record, we have not thought it proper or material to inquire. Perhaps cases may exist where the exercise of such a power may be proper. Be that however as it may, we have no doubt but the Court below acted correctly in this case in refusing to hear parol evidence and investigate those facts tending to prove a collusion between the sheriff and purchaser as to the sale in question. By that refusal the plaintiff can sustain no injury. If he is in possession of the lot, he may defend that possession by the production of that proof; or if he should not have the possession, he has ample remedy in the ordinary mode of action to regain that possession, and in the power of a Court of Equity to relieve against any fraud or collusion which may have been committed on him. As then the plaintiff can have sustained no injury by the refusal of the Court to sustain his motion, but has ample remedy in the ordinary and accustomed mode, where from the manner of proceeding, the ends of justice are more likely to be attained; and as also the plaintiff has suffered that time to elapse which precludes him from proceeding under the statute; under these circumstances we think the Court below properly rejected the inquiry into those facts, and correctly overruled the motion. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Cox v. Joiner 4 Bibb 94, 7 Ky. 94, 1815 WL 676 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
