(Cite as: 4 Bibb 216,  7 Ky. 216 (Ky.),  1815 WL 1211 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Chiles v. Howard, etc. Oct. 31, 1815. *1 The town of Mt. Sterling being established by special act without any authority to the County Court to appoint other trustees than those named in the act, and without authorizing the inhabitants to elect trustees, was not within the provisions of the general law regulating towns. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. CHILES having run a fence across one of the streets of the town of Mt. Sterling, the present defendants, the then acting trustees for said town, and the surveyor appointed by the board to keep the streets in repair, entered, threw down the fence, and opened the street. Chiles, conceiving the defendants not the legal trustees of the town, but supposing their authority as such to have expired in consequence of no election having been had by the citizens of the town, or appointment made by the County Court, since the passage of the act of 1800 concerning towns, brought the present action of trespass to obtain damages for the removal of his fence. Whether, therefore, the failure to elect or appoint trustees as aforesaid, has the effect supposed by Chiles, seems to be the question intended to be made by the pleadings, and is the only point raised in argument for the decision of this Court. With respect to the town of Mt. Sterling, we are unable to find any law whatever, requiring either an election of trustees by the citizens of the town or an appointment by the County Court. That town appears not to have been established under the provisions of any general law providing for the establishment of towns, but by a special law enacted for that purpose; and as such, does not come within any of the provisions requiring elections of trustees. A slight attention to the several provisions of the law on this subject, will illustrate beyond doubt the correctness of the foregoing position. By the 3d section of the act of 1800 (the last provision on the subject), elections of trustees are required to be held annually by the clerk of each town entitled by law to have an election. As this act is amendatory only, and requires annual elections of trustees in those towns only which were then entitled to have elections, to ascertain the extent of its operation we are necessarily led to examine the provisions of the law in force at its passage. The only provision which has a bearing on the subject of elections of trustees, then in force, is contained in the 3d section of the general law of 1796, concerning the establishment of towns. It provides that "when the holders of lots in any town established agreeably to that act, and actually residing therein, shall amount to fifteen, they shall elect trustees," etc. The authority to elect given by this section is confined exclusively to those ?? owns established according to the act of which it composes a part, and as that act applies only to the establishment of towns by County Courts, it can have no possible relation to the town of Mt. Sterling. As, therefore, the law requiring elections of trustees does not apply to the town of Mt. Sterling, it results necessarily the failure to elect cannot have the effect supposed by Chiles. *2 Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Chiles v. Howard 4 Bibb 216, 7 Ky. 216, 1815 WL 1211 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
