(Cite as: 3 Bibb 269,  6 Ky. 269 (Ky.),  1814 WL 753 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ormsby v. Letcher. Apr. 11, 1814. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 84(2) 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(E) Absence, Nonresidence, and Concealment of Person or Property 241k84 Absence at Time of Accrual of Cause of  Action 241k84(2) k. Person Liable in General. Most Cited  Cases A temporary absence of a debtor from the country will not take a case out of the statute of limitations. Limitation of Actions 241 k 150(2) 241 Limitation of Actions 241III Acknowledgment, New Promise, and Part Payment 241k140 Acknowledgment or New Promise 241k150 Certainty and Definiteness 241k150(2) k. Provisions for Payment. Most Cited  Cases An agreement of a debtor, that a settlement made by the creditor and a third person should be examined by either party, will not take a case out of the statute of limitations. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS was an action of assumpsit, brought by Letcher against Ormsby in the Court below. Non-assumpsit was pleaded, and leave given Ormsby to avail himself of any other defense on the trial that would be admissible under any legal plea. A verdict was obtained in favor of Letcher and Ormsby's motion for a new trial overruled, and judgment rendered on the verdict of the jury. From this judgment Ormsby has appealed to this Court. A temporary absence of a debtor from the country will not take a case out of the statute of limitation. Agreement of a debtor that a settlement made by the creditor and a third person should be examined by either party, will not take a case out of the statute. Various points are made by the assignment of errors, none of which are thought necessary to be noticed, but such as relate to the operation of the statute of limitations, and grow out of the refusal of the Court below to grant a new trial. The cause of action for which this action was brought, appears from the evidence to have accrued between seven and eight years before the commencement of this action. But it appears from the record of this case that the appellant, in the year 1807, about three years after the cause of action accrued, left Jefferson county, his place of residence, for Europe, and did not return until about three years thereafter; and hence it is contended by the appellee that according to a provision in the statute of limitations the appellant is precluded from using it as a bar to the appellee's action. By that proviso "if any person or persons, defendant or defendants to any of the actions mentioned in the act, shall abscond or conceal themselves, or by removal out of the country or county where he or they do or shall reside when such cause of action accrued, or by any other indirect ways or means defeat or obstruct any person or persons who have title thereto from bringing or maintaining all or any of the aforesaid actions within the respective times limited by the act, that then and in such case such defendant or defendants are not to be admitted to plead the act in bar to any of the aforesaid actions." Whether, therefore, according to the sound construction of this proviso, the appellant's absence so defeated or obstructed the appellee from bringing or maintaining his action, is the first and principal inquiry. It cannot be admitted, as was urged in argument, that whenever the statute of limitations begins to run, no subsequent obstruction to bringing the action can bar a defendant from pleading it. Such a construction would not be only contrary to the spirit, but a direct violation of the letter of the act. It is true in relation to other provisions in the act, the rule is settled that where the statute begins to run, no subsequent disability will prevent its running. But the application of this rule, we apprehend, should be confined to those disabilities which by the provision of the act should exist when the cause of action accrued, and cannot affect those cases falling within the proviso in question. If, therefore, at any time within the period required by law for bringing this action, the appellee has been defeated or obstructed from bringing or maintaining his action by any of the means mentioned in the proviso to the act, the statute cannot avail the appellant as a bar to the appellee's right of recovery. But if the appellant's absence is not such an obstruction, the appellee's action is barred, unless by some other act the case is taken out of the statute. *2 We are, however, of opinion the appellant's absence was not such an obstruction. He did not abscond or conceal himself; his absence was not a removal from the county or country; it was but a temporary departure with an intent again to return to his place of residence. And surely it cannot have been the intent of the makers of the law that every temporary absence from the county or country should bar a defendant from pleading the statute; nor do we think the appellant's answer should have that effect: for notwithstanding his absence, the appellee might have brought his action, and although a personal service of the writ might not have been obtained, such proceedings could have been had as would have authorized a recovery. But it is again contended this case is taken out of the statute by the agreement of Ormsby, within five years before this action was brought, that a settlement made with the brother of the appellee should be subject to the examination of either party. That agreement, we are of opinion, cannot take this case out of the statute; it does not contain an acknowledgment of a subsisting demand, and a promise to pay in consideration thereof. Upon the whole, we think the statute of limitations barred the appellee's action, and that the verdict of the jury was consequently contrary to law and evidence. The judgment, therefore, is erroneous and must be reversed, and the cause remanded for a new trial. Ky.App. 1814. Ormsby v. Letcher 3 Bibb 269, 6 Ky. 269, 1814 WL 753 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
