(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 108,  8 Ky. 108 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1178 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Francis West and His Ass'ees v. Lewis Sanders et al. Executors. Dec. 10, 1817. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 815 228 Judgment 228XVII Foreign Judgments 228k814 Judgments of State Courts 228k815 k. Adjudications Operative in Other States. Most  Cited Cases A., a resident of Pennsylvania, being in Kentucky, left notes made by B. in the hands of C. The latter, on the faith of the deposit, accepted and paid drafts drawn by A., but failing to collect the notes, drew on A., who in the meantime had failed, and C.'s draft was protested.  C. filed a bill for an injunction for the money in the hands of B., whose notes were still unpaid.  Held, that the discharge of A., under the insolvent laws of Pennsylvania, was no bar to the suit in Kentucky. Assignments 38 k 86 38 Assignments 38IV Operation and Effect 38k83 Priorities 38k86 k. As Between Assignees and Creditors. Most Cited  Cases A., a resident of Pennsylvania, being in Kentucky, left notes, made by B. to himself, with C. for collection.  C. on the faith of this deposit, accepted and paid drafts drawn by A., but failing to collect the amount on B.'s notes, drew on A., who, in the meantime, had failed, and C.'s draft was protested. Thereupon C. filed a bill for an injunction of the money in the hands of B., whose notes were still unpaid.  Held that, although said notes were given for a debt due to D., yet, as D. was indebted to A. at the date of the notes, the money in the hands of B. was liable to C.'s demand. Assignments 38 k 86 38 Assignments 38IV Operation and Effect 38k83 Priorities 38k86 k. As Between Assignees and Creditors. Most Cited  Cases Held, also, that C.'s claim could not be affected by an assignment of the debt by A. in fraud of his creditors. Equity 150 k 117 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k117 k. Defects and Objections as to Parties. Most Cited Cases Where, on the face of a bill, there is no apparent lack of parties, but the defendant in his answer alleges an assignment, the failure to make the assignee a party should be relied on in the answer, or pleaded in defense, or a decree will not be reversed on that ground in the appellate court. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Thomas and Robert Barr having, in September, 1810, executed, in the town of Lexington, several promissory notes to John Lapsley, then a merchant of Philadelphia; and Lapsley having the notes with the appellee, M'Cown, with directions for their collection, returned to Philadelphia; and from thence, some time thereafter, addressed a letter to M'Cown, informing him that he, Lapsley, was about to make a shipment of cotten from New Orleans, and requesting M'Cown to accept drafts for about $5,000, which his, Lapsley's, agent at Orleans was directed to draw upon him; and at the conclusion of his letter observed, "That he had great hopes that M'Cown would succeed so far as to get sufficient money from T. and Robert Barr, to enable him to meet the drafts, without the trouble of drawing upon Philadelphia." Accordingly, some time after the receipt of this letter, M'Cown was presented with the drafts from Orleans; and having discharged the same, and failing to collect any thing from the Barrs, drew upon Lapsley in Philadelphia for the amount thereof; but Lapsley having failed, M'Cown's bills upon him were protested for non-payment. *2 M'Cown then exhibited his bill in the circuit court of Fayette; and after setting for the the preceding facts, alleges that he was induced to honor the drafts of Lapsley's agent, not on account of his personal credit only, but in consequence of the notes on the Barrs, which had been left with him by Lapsley: and that those notes had been by him put into the hands of Robert Wickliffe, an attorney, for collection, but were still unpaid; and conceiving he held a lien on those debts to the amount of his advances for Lapsley, prayed for and obtained an injunction, injoining the money in the hands of the Barrs and Wickliffe, until a hearing of his cause in equity. He further charges in his bill, that although the notes were given by the Barrs to Lapsley only, he has been informed that Lapsley has since alleged that they were taken on account of a debt due by the Barrs to a certain Francis West, late merchant of Philadelphia; but that West, having failed, appointed Henry Nixon, Samuel Mifflin and himself, his assignees; and in virtue of the authority given him by his co-assignees, he received from the Barrs the notes aforesaid: but he moreover charges, that if it be true the notes were taken on account of the debt to West, that he, M'Cown, when he honored the drafts from Orleans, knew nothing of it, but then understood, as he had been previously informed by Lapsley, the debts were his own; but he also alleges that West was then largely indebted to Lapsley; so that if the notes were given for West's debt, he insists that as the creditor of Lapsley, who was the creditor of West, the money should be applied to the payment of his claim; and after making the Barrs, Wickliffe, Lapsley, West and his assignees, defendants, asks for the appropriate relief. Lapsley, by his answer, admits the demand of M'Cown against him to be just, but alleges, that although the notes on the Barrs were taken to himself, they were given for a debt due to West, and that he, on the 13th April, 1812, by his written assignment, transferred the debts on the Barrs, to his co-defendants, Nixon and Mifflin, for the use and benefit of the creditors of West. He also admits, that when the notes were given by the Barrs, that West was indebted to himself and a certain Ikin, partners in trade; but he alleges, that he and Ikin have since, on the 4th of December, 1811, for a valuable consideration, assigned that debt to a certain William Lapsley, of Philadelphia, and insists that he has no interest in the claim against the Barrs, whereby it can be subjected to M'Cown's demand. He moreover alleges, that since he became indebted to M'Cown, he has been, according to the laws of Pennsylvania, discharged from confinement as an insolvent debtor and relies upon that discharge in bar of M'Cown's demand. West and his assignees, Nixon and Mifflin, admit that when the notes were given by the Barrs, that West was indebted to the firm of Lapsley and Ikin about $16,000, and allege, that those notes were given by the Barrs on account of a debt due West, and they claim the notes for the benefit of the creditors of West. *3 The other defendants admit the existence of the funds in their hands, and refer the matter to the determination of the court. On a hearing, the court below conceiving the money in the hands of the resident defendants, was liable to M'Cown's demand, pronounced a decree accordingly; and from that decree West and his assignees have appealed to this court. Notes given by a resident to a non-resident and left in the hands of another resident for collection, if on the credit of those notes the collector makes advances, he holds a lien on the debt for his reimbursement, and the lien is not diminished if after the advance the payee assigns the demand: vd. Cowp. R. 251. A discharge from debts under the insolvent laws of Pennsylvania, is no protection here. If such notes are taken in the name of the payee, tho' for a debt due another, if such other was indebted to the payee, the collector yet holds a lien to the extent of his advances. In whatever point of view this case is considered, we are satisfied that the decree of the court below is correct. If, as the notes were given to Lapsley, they are considered as belonging to him, there is no question but that the money should be applied to the satisfaction of M'Cown's demand. For M'Cown is not only admitted by the answer of Lapsley to have paid the bills drawn upon him from Orleans, but his claim is moreover abundantly established by the exhibits in the cause; and notwithstanding Lapsley may have obtained a discharge under the laws of Pennsylvania, in relation to insolvent debtors, and although that discharge might possibly bar any proceedings against him in that state, it can not furnish a legitimate defence in the courts of this country. But assuming the fact to be as was contended in argument, that the notes were given by the Barrs on account of West's demand against them; and admitting that those notes ought to be applied to the payment of West's debts, still we should have no hesitation in affirming the decree in favor of M'Cown. For although West is not shewn to have contracted any debt with M'Cown, yet by his answer, and that of his assignees, he is admitted to have been indebted to the firm of Lapsley and Ikin about $16,000, when the notes were given by the Barrs; and as that debt is not pretended to have been paid, and M'Cown, as we have already seen, has not only a just demand against Lapsley, but his demand is moreover, by the exhibits in this cause, shewn to have been created by the advances of money, which M'Cown, in all reasonable probability, was induced to make in consequence of those notes upon the Barrs' having been left with him by Lapsley. As respect those notes, M'Cown should, most indisputably, in the present contest, be clothed with all the equity which Lapsley, at the taking of the notes, was entitled to, in consequence of the debt which was at the time due to him by West; and in that point of view, as the record totally fails to shew West to have been indebted to any other person, M'Cown, as the equitable assignee of Lapsley, should, most clearly, be secured in the payment of his demand out of the debts due by the Barrs. *4 Nor do we suppose the right of M'Cown to such payment can, in any wise, have been impaired by the assignment alleged to have been subsequently made to William Lapsley; for if we are correct in supposing that M'Cown, in consequence of the transactions between him and Lapsley, gained an equity to be reimbursed the amount of his advances, out of the notes upon the Barrs, it follows, that by no transfer of his debt upon West, could Lapsley, thereafter, deprive M'Cown of that equity. But abstracting from the consideration of this case, all considerations tending to give M'Cown a specific lien in equity upon the debt due by the Barrs, still we should have no doubt that the alleged assignment to William Lapsley furnishes no just objections to the relief given by the court below. For it is impossible for a candid mind, in viewing the evidence and exhibits in the cause, for a moment to doubt but that assignment was made, with the intent and for the purpose of hindering and delaying J. Lapsley's creditors in the prosecution of their just demands; and if so, although done in the state of Pennsylvania, whose local municipal regulations this court can not take judicial notice of, yet on deciding according to the plain dictates of natural justice, we can have no hesitation in postponing the claim of such an assignee, to the just demands of fair and bona fide creditors. An assignment of a debt made with intent to defeat or delay creditors, will be postponed to the demand of creditors, whether they have a lien or not. But it is contended, that inasmuch as William Lapsley, the assignee, was not made a party to the suit, the decree of the court below ought to be reversed. If the bill does not shew a defect of parties, but that fact appears by the answer, it should have been urged by the answer or by plea, otherwise the court will not notice it. There is no doubt but all those interested in the matter in contest ought, strictly speaking, to be brought before the court, and where it appears from the face of the bill, that all those having an interest are not made parties, the court of original jurisdiction ought not, as has been repeatedly held by this court, to proceed to a decision on the merits; but where, as in the present case, there is no apparent lack of parties from the bill, but the interest of him, who it is contended, should have been brought before the court, is made known by the answer of the defendants in that court, the failure to make him a party, ought to have been either relied on in the answer or used in defence by way of plea; but as that appears not to have been done in the present case, the necessity of William Lapsley being made a party, was not presented for the decision of the court below, and consequently this court, exercising appellate jurisdiction only, ought not for that cause, to reverse the decree. The decree must therefore be affirmed with cost. Wickliffe, for appellant, Haggin, Bibb and Hardin contra. Ky.App. 1817. West v. Sanders' Ex'rs 1 A.K.Marsh. 108, 8 Ky. 108, 1817 WL 1178 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
