(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 195,  10 Ky. 195 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1197 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Reed's Heirs v. James Denwiddie. Oct. 23, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A call "to include all the vacant land on the south and west lines of E." was held invalid, as imposing an unreasonable burden on subsequent locators of knowing all previous appropriations. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry calling for another entry, which is not sufficiently established to support a dependent entry, but the survey of which is notorious, was held to attach to the survey. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The appellants asserting the superior equity to the land in contest, brought this suit in the circuit court for the purpose of compelling the appellees to surrender their legal title, derived through a grant of elder date, and which issued upon a survey made under an adverse entry also of elder date than the entry under which the appellant claims. The entry through which the appellants claim, is as follows: Nov. 20, 1781.--William Mayo enters, &c. 2,000 acres of land, &c. lying on the waters of Silver creek and Muddy creek, to include all the vacant land adjoining the south and west lines of Samuel Estill, assignee of Webber, to extend west, and south, and east, towards Bowls and Cruse for quantity. Prior to the date of this entry, and on the 20th of April, 1780, Samuel Estill, assignee of John Webber, entered a pre-emption warrant of 400 acres of land on the waters of Muddy creek, adjoining James Estill's south line, and running southwardly for quantity. And, on the 7th of May, 1781, Estill, as assignee of Webber, caused a survey to be executed, adjoining and binding on the south line of a survey previously made for James Estill, of an entry of 1,000 acres. Neither the entry of James Estill for the 1,000 acres, nor that of Samuel Estill, assignee of Webber, is sufficiently established to uphold a dependent entry, but as the survey of Samuel Estill, assignee of Webber, was made prior to the date of Mayo's entry, the locator must be presumed to have intended to adjoin the survey, and as we are of opinion the survey of Estill's 1,000 is proven to be notorious at the date of Mayo's entry, from the description contained in the certificate of Estill's survey, ass'ee of Webber which, from its date, must have been of record, there could have been no difficulty in a subsequent adventurer finding it. An entry calling for a claim which had been surveyed and recorded will attach itself to the survey, and if that was notorious it is a good base for the appendant only, though the entry on which such survey was made may have been bad. *2 But assuming the survey of Estill, assignee of Webber, might be easily found, we are not of opinion, the entry of Mayo contains that precise description which would enable a subsequent locator to appropriate with certainty the adjacent residuum. The subsequent locator would perceive from the entry of Mayo, that the locator intended to appropriate the vacant land adjoining the south and west lines of Estill, ass'ee of Webber, but before he could know from what point on the west line of Estill the line of Mayo should be extended west, he would have to ascertain the extent of the vacancy on the west; for by calling to include all the vacant land on the west of Estill, assignee of Webber, and to extend west, it is evident the locator of Mayo's entry could not have intended to commence the line to be extended west, within any land which might, prior to the date of Mayo's entry, have been appropriated. But unless the subsequent locator is presumed to know all prior appropriations, as the entry of Mayo affords no information by which they could be known, it is impossible, that he could by the exercise of reasonable search, have ascertained the extent of the vacancy. We think, however, that the subsequent locator can not be presumed to know every appropriation which may have been made. He must, no doubt, at his peril be careful not to make his entry so as to conflict with appropriations made with the requisite precision and certainty, but an entry can not be admitted to contain sufficient precision and certainty, when it imposes upon others the unreasonable burthen of ascertaining and knowing every appropriation which may have been previously made. Nevertheless if such dependant entry calls to include the vacant lands on the west and south of such survey, the dependant entry is not valid, because it would be unreasonable to impose on a subsequent locator to ascertain what appropriation had been made on the west and south, and thereby discover the land intended to be located. An entry calling to run from a given beginning "towards the claims of B. &c., must shew with accuracy the position of those claims, for by the call of running towards them he evidently intended to avoid them and by possibility they may cover the land in contest. But if this difficulty could be gotten over, there are others which present insurmountable objections to Mayo's entry. By calling to extend east towards Cruse and Bowls, it is plain the locator intended not to appropriate lands which might include any part of either Cruse or Bowls, but from any thing contained in the present record, it is impossible for this court to say the land of Bowls may not include the land in contest. In Dec., 1779, John Bowls obtained a certificate for 1,000 acres pre-emption, lying on a branch of Muddy creek, adjoining James Estill on the east side, by marking and improving the same in the year 1775, &c. A few days before the date of this certificate, James Estill obtained a certificate for 1,000 acres, lying on the waters of Muddy creek, and Otter creek, within one mile of a little fort known by the name of Locust Thicket, by marking and improving the same, &c. *3 At the date of Mayo's entry, the certificate of Bowls had neither been surveyed or entered, so that in ascertaining his position, we must advert to the certificate.--By it, Bowls calls to adjoin James Estill on the east, and to include his improvement. But there is no evidence in the cause calculated to identify either the improvement of Estill, or that of Bowls. There is an abundance of evidence shewing, that within the limits of Estill's survey, he settled a station and resided thereon at the date of his survey; but there is no evidence conducing to shew the improvement, in virtue of which his certificate was obtained. The call to adjoin Estill on the east, therefore, cannot enable this court to ascertain the western boundary of Bowls as there is no evidence shewing the position of his improvement, there is nothing which can attach him to any particular spot. Two witnesses, whose depositions are taken in the cause, prove Bowls' improvement to be within about a half or three-quarters of a mile from Estill's station, but what direction from the station the improvement might be found, the evidence is totally silent. From any thing contained in the record, the improvement of Bowls may assume such a position as to place his claim on the land now in contest, and if so, it is plain, the appellants through the entry of Mayo, can not be entitled to relief. It results, therefore, that the entry of Mayo can not be sustained, and consequently the court below decided correctly in dismissing the appellants' bill. The decree must be affirmed with cost. Hardin for appellants. Ky.App. 1820. Reed's Heirs v. Denwiddie 3 A.K.Marsh. 195, 10 Ky. 195, 1820 WL 1197 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
