(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 421,  22 Ky. 421 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1172 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rogers v. Farrar. Jan. 3, 1828. *1 Statute Against Fraudulent Devises. Slaves. Executors. Heirs. Contingent Devisees. Evidence. Instructions. Election of Devisees. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 429 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k428 Rights of Action Against Executors or Administrators 162k429 k. In general. Most Cited Cases Executors and administrators are subject to actions by creditors of the decedent to the amount of the chattels of the estate. Wills 409 k 717(1) 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(A) Nature of Title and Rights in General 409k717 Acceptance or Renunciation or Disclaimer of Devise  or Legacy 409k717(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 409k717) Where the devise to one for life is on the condition he elect to hold, and he decline, and release to those in remainder, no action can be maintained against him, on a contract of the testator. Wills 409 k 836 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(N) Debts of Testator and Incumbrances on Property 409k835 Liabilities on Devise of Realty 409k836 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Since 1800 slaves devised pass as lands to the devisee, who are liable to the creditors as the devisees of lands. Wills 409 k 847(1) 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(N) Debts of Testator and Incumbrances on Property 409k847 Actions Against Devisees, Legatees, or Purchasers 409k847(1) k. Nature and form of remedy and jurisdiction.  Most Cited Cases The statute of 1792, against fraudulent devises, does not give an action against the legatees of chattel interests, but the action must be against the executor or administrator. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. To recover on a note given by Benjamin Rogers, in his lifetime, Farrar brought an action of debt against Elijah Rogers, Joseph Rogers, Wm. Rogers, and B. F. Rogers, and declared against them as executors and devisees of said Benjamin Rogers, deceased. Declaration against Rogers and others as executors and devisees. Each of the defendants in the circuit court, filed separate pleas, but as the verdict and judgment were in favor of all except Joseph Rogers, by whom this writ of error is prosecuted, we shall pay no attention to the pleadings of any but him. Joseph Rogers filed two pleas, one of which denies that he is executor of Benjamin Rogers, deceased, and the other denies that he has received any thing by devise, from the said Benjamin, &c. Issues were joined to each of these pleas, and verdict and judgment recovered against Joseph Rogers, as devisee of the said Benjamin Rogers, deceased. *2 Pleas; verdict and judgment. After the evidence was heard by the jury, the court instructed them, on the motion of Farrar, that if they believed the testimony, the law was for him, and that they must find against Joseph Rogers, as a devisee by implication. Instruction to the jury to find for plaintiff if they believe the testimony. Under this instruction the jury found for Farrar, the debt claimed by him, and they also found that there had been devised and passed to Joseph Rogers, by the last will and testament of Benjamin Rogers, deceased, the following slaves: Arthur, of the value of $400; Charity, of the value of $350; Moss, of the value of $325; Davy, of the value of $350; Cassey, of the value of $125, Aggy, of the value of $125; Mepsey, of the value of $80. On this verdict the judgment now sought to be reversed was rendered against Joseph Rogers for the debt of Farrer, and cost, to be made out of the estate devised. Verdict. The verdict of the jury having found no estate devised to Joseph Rogers, by the will of Benjamin Rogers, except slaves, we are presented with the question, whether or not an action at law is maintainable, against the devisees of such estate, by a creditor of the testator? At common law, devisees of land were not subject to the actions of creditors. It will readily occur to every one, that if the action can be maintained, it must be owing to some statutory enactment, and not upon principles of the common law. There is no principle of the common law, which has been more uniformly recognized by elementary writers and jurists, than that which precludes a creditor of the testator from maintaining an action either against the devisee of lands, or the legatee of chattels. This rule of the common law originated with the right to dispose of property by will, and continued inflexible and unaltered, until a change was produced by the Parliament of England, by the statute of W. and M. c. 14, usually denominated the statute against fraudulent devises. By that statute creditors by bond or other specialties, in which the testator bound himself and his heirs, were enabled, after the testator's death, to maintain their action of debt against the heirs at law of such obligor, and the devisee or devisees of the lands, tenements or hereditaments jointly; but as respects all other creditors, the statute provided no redress, nor did it give any remedy against legatees of chattel interests, so that after the statute, the rule of the common law remained the same, except as to the rights of creditors by specialties, in which the testator had bound himself and heirs, to maintain actions against the devisee or devisees of land, tenements, &c. Statute of W. and M. against fraudulent devises, gave the action against the heirs and devisees of lands jointly on all the specialties wherein the ancestor expressly bound his heirs. Thus stood the law until after the separation of this State from the State of Virginia, and until a further change was produced by an act of the legislature of this State, which passed the 17th of December, 1792. The second section of that act provides: "The same action which will lie against executors or administrators, may be brought jointly against them and the heirs and devisees of the deceased person, or both, and shall not be delayed by the non age of any of the parties." Whatever may, therefore now be the nature of the creditor's demand, provided it be such for which an action will lie against an executor or administrator, an action may undoubtedly, since the passage of that act, be maintained jointly against the executor or administrator and heirs, or the devisees of lands, tenements, &c. *3 Act of '92, gave the action against the heirs and devisees of lands jointly with the executors in all cases, where the executors were bound-- But-- But the act of 1792, is not understood to change the rule of the common law, as respects legatees of chattels interests; and to them the legal remedy of creditors must, we apprehend, be as it was at common law, against the executor or administrator only. The legal title of goods and chattels on the death of the owner, passes to, and becomes vested in, the exector or administrator of the testator or intestate. This act of '92, does not give an action against the legatees of chattel interests. The burthen of administering such estate devolves upon the executor or administrator; they are, to the extent of the estate which may come to their hands to be administered, liable to the creditors of the testator or intestate; they are bound to observe a particular order in the payment of the creditor's demands, and though any part of the chattels be specifically bequeathed by the testator, the specific legatee can derive no legal title to the thing bequeathed, without first receiving the assent of the executor, and after his assent is given, the executor remains still liable to the action of the creditor. There was not, therefore, the same reason for giving remedy by action against the legatee of a chattel, as existed for providing remedy against heirs and devisees of real estate, in favor of persons having demands against the testator or intestate, for which no action could have been maintained by them before the passage of the act against the heirs and devisees. It was to enable creditors to reach the estate of the testator or intestate, in the hands of the heir or devisee, but which could not have been previously reached by any action against them or any other person, that the remedy was provided by the act of 1792, and that object will be fully attained without construing the act so as to authorize an action against the legatee of a chattel interest. Executors or administrators are subject to the actions of creditors to the amount of the chattels. It is against devisees and not against legatees that remedy is given by the act. Each of those terms have a technical signification; and should be taken in their technical sense. Devisee, in its technical sense, means one to whom lands or other real estate are devised; legatee, a person to whom chattels are bequeathed. Devisee is one to whom real estate devised. Legatee one to whom chattels are bequeathed. Were it, therefore, conceded that at the death of the testator, Benjamin Rogers, his slaves, which were disposed of by his will passed to his executor and not as land directly to his devisees, we should have no hesitation in saying that the action can not be maintained against the devisees. But according to the present state of the law of this country, we do not understand that slaves devised pass to the executor named in the will. At the passage of the act of 1792, slaves no doubt passed to the executor and were assets in his hands for the payment of the testator's debts; but it is otherwise now and it was otherwise at the time of the testator, Benjamin's decease, and has been so ever since the passage of the act of November 26th, 1800. By that act it is expressly provided that, "slaves, so far as respects last wills and testaments, shall hereafter, within this Commonwealth, be held and deemed as real estate, and shall pass by the last will and testament of persons possessed thereof, in the same manner and under the same regulations as landed property." Now as lands devised pass directly to the devisee, and not to the executor, it is impossible for slaves to pass by last wills and testaments, in the same manner and under the same regulations as land, and yet go to the executor and not pass directly to the devisee. Slaves must, therefore, since the act of 1800, be understood, as respects last wills and testaments, to be real estate, so as to pass to devisees in the same manner as land, and thereby subjecting the devisee to the same actions which may be maintained by the creditors of the testator against devisees of land. *4 Since the act of 1800, slaves devised pass as lands to the devisees, not through the executors, and the creditors may maintain their actions against them as against devisees of land. The next question to be noticed involves the correctness of the instruction which was given by the circuit court to the jury. It is here proper to premise, that the will of Benjamin Rogers contains no express devise to Joseph Rogers, so as to authorize the court, as matter of legal construction to pronounce Joseph Rogers to be a devisee under the will. It is true that the will contains provisions which, upon the happening of certain events after the death of the testator, might be construed to be a devise of certain slaves to Joseph during his lifetime, but whether those events did or did not occur before the action was commenced by Farrar was to be ascertained by extraneous evidence, and not from the will of the testator. In an action against one as devisee, to whom the devisee is contingent, the plaintiff must shew the contintingency had occurred, and the devise vested before the action was commenced. With a view to establish those events, parol evidence was introduced by Farrar, and after his evidence was heard by the jury, it would no doubt have been competent for him to have asked of the court instructions to the jury upon any point of law pertinent to the matter in contest; but in doing so he should not have withdrawn from the jury the decision of the facts which the evidence was introduced to prove, as we understand was done by the motion which was made and the decision thereon by the court. By the construction which the court gave, the jury were told, that if they believed the evidence they must find against Joseph Rogers as devisee by implication. Now whether he was devisee, even by implication, depends, as we have already remarked, upon certain facts which it was the object of Farrar to establish by the parol evidence; so that before the court could decide that he was devisee, it was necessary to decide upon the evidence in relation to those facts. It is no answer to this objection to the instruction given by the court, to say that it was hypothecated upon the jury's belief of the testimony; for the evidence was produced by Farrar himself, and it is totally inadmissible for a party either to demur to his own evidence of call upon the court by motion in the nature of a demurrer to evidence to draw inferences from his own evidence as to contested facts, and to instruct the jury as to the law upon the facts inferred. Where, in such case, plaintiff introduced parol evidence, conducing to prove the contingency had happened, and he was entitled to maintain the action, he would be entitled to the instructions of the court hypothecated on the facts proved, but not that the verdict ought to be for plaintiff if the jury believe the evidence. But were it competent for the court to have decided the facts, we should have no difficulty in saying that the evidence introduced was totally insufficient to prove the facts necessary to establish Joseph Rogers to be a devisee. By no possible construction which can be put upon the will was he intended by the testator to be a devisee, unless he should elect to take and hold the slaves during his natural life, and so far from his electing to do so, the evidence is conclusive to show that, recently after the death of the testator, he, by writing under his hand and seal renounced all claim to the slaves and surrendered them to the devisees to whom the testator bequeathed them. *5 Where the devise to one for life is on condition he elect to hold and he decline, and release to those in remainder, no action can be maintained against him on the contract of the testator under the statute. The court, therefore, erred in its instruction, to the jury. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the circuit court, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Wickliffe, for plaintiff; Chinn and Payne, for defendant. Ky.App. 1828. Rogers v. Farrar 6 T.B.Mon. 421, 22 Ky. 421, 1828 WL 1172 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
