(Cite as: 4 Bibb 194,  7 Ky. 194 (Ky.),  1815 WL 719 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hickman v. Southerland. Oct. 9, 1815. *1 If the matter pleaded be uncertainly set forth so as to be capable of different constructions, after verdict that construction which would support the verdict ought to be given. Where a new trial would be granted and where not, in the Appellate Court, upon the ground that the verdict is against evidence, when the Court below are satisfied with the verdict, yet state the whole evidence. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 432 302 Pleading 302XIX Aider by Verdict or Judgment 302k432 k. In General. Most Cited Cases If the matter pleaded be uncertainly set forth, so as to be capable of two different constructions, after verdict that construction will be given which will support the verdict. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge OWSLEY absent. THIS was an action brought upon a covenant to convey upon demand a tract of land therein described, as soon as full payment should be made therefor. The declaration alleges full payment to have been made, and a special demand; but it does not expressly aver that the demand was made subsequent to the payment. In assigning the breach, however, it is in substance alleged that the defendant did not convey, "although full payment was made--although often requested, and particularly at the time and place specified in the declaration." Issues being made upon several pleas filed by the defendant, a trial was had, and a verdict found for the plaintiff; whereupon the defendant moved for a new trial, on the ground that the verdict was contrary to evidence; but the Court overruled the motion and gave judgment for the plaintiff, from which the defendant has appealed. The points relied on for reversing the judgment, are--1. That the declaration is defective in not alleging the demand to have been made subsequent to the payment of the price; and 2. That the Court erred in refusing to grant a new trial. 1. There is no doubt that according to the true construction of the covenant a demand after the payment of the price, was essential to the plaintiff's right of action; but although the declaration does not expressly allege such to have been the fact, it is to be implied rather than the contrary, from the order in which the averments of payment and of a demand are made, as well as from the language used in the assignment of the breach of the covenant; for the payment is first alleged, and afterward the demand; and the language used in the assignment of the breach seems substantially to import that the payment had been made before the demand. But supposing the declaration to be doubtful or equivocal in this respect, still as the material facts are stated, and the defect is only in not alleging the order of time in which they took place, we should be of opinion it was too late after verdict to take advantage of the defect. Even where the defendant, instead of demurring, pleads to the declaration, as was done in this case, defects as to time, place, and other circumstances, will be aided; but much more will a defect of this sort be aided after verdict; for in that case it is an invariable rule, that if the matter pleaded be capable of different intendments, that shall be taken which will support the declaration, and not that which will defeat it. *2 2. The second point evidently cannot be sustained. The bill of exceptions taken in the case shows that there was much contrariety of evidence, and that the credit of witnesses as well as the weight of circumstances was necessary to be decided by the jury in rendering their verdict. In such a case, where the jury, who are the constitutional judges, have decided the case, and their decision has been sanctioned by the Court below, this Court is forbidden as well by the uniform tenor of their decisions as by the obvious impropriety of the thing, from interposing their authority to set aside the verdict and award a new trial. Where, indeed, admitting the truth of the evidence adduced in support of the verdict, and all the conclusions which might be rationally deduced from it, the law would not warrant the finding of the jury, this Court might with propriety set aside the verdict, notwithstanding there was a contrariety of evidence. But such was not the case here; for if the opposing evidence be put out of the case, there can be no question but that which was adduced in support of the verdict was sufficient in point of law to justify it. Judgment affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Hickman v. Southerland 4 Bibb 194, 7 Ky. 194, 1815 WL 719 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
