(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 255,  19 Ky. 255 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1285 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Logsdon v. Roberts' Executors. Jun. 3, 1826. *1 Action. Arbitrament and Award. Specialties. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Alternative Dispute Resolution 25T k 164 25T Alternative Dispute Resolution 25TII Arbitration 25TII(C) Submission 25Tk162 Requisites and Validity 25Tk164 k. Writing, signature, and acknowledgment. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 33k12.1, 33k12  Arbitration) Where the subject of arbitration is a specialty, submission by parol is not valid. Alternative Dispute Resolution 25T k 380 25T Alternative Dispute Resolution 25TII Arbitration 25TII(H) Review, Conclusiveness, and Enforcement of Award 25Tk380 k. Merger and bar of causes of action and defenses.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 33k81  Arbitration) A valid award merges the original demand, and bars an action upon the matters contained in the submission. Alternative Dispute Resolution 25T k 380 25T Alternative Dispute Resolution 25TII Arbitration 25TII(H) Review, Conclusiveness, and Enforcement of Award 25Tk380 k. Merger and bar of causes of action and defenses.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 33k81  Arbitration) Where a matter in suit is not the subject of arbitration, or is a covenant, and the submission is by parol, the original demand is not affected by a submission and award. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Obligation sued upon. This action was brought by the executors of Elisha Roberts, deceased, upon the following writing: "On or before the 25th day of December next, I bind myself to pay Elisha Roberts, the sum of one hundred dollars, payable in current money of Kentucky, for value received, witness my hand and seal this 8th day of April, 1822." "JOSEPH LOGSDON, (Seal.)" After craving oyer of the writing, Logsdon pleaded, "that after executing and delivering the note and before the commencement of this suit, to wit, on day of       at the county and circuit aforesaid, there existed a controversy between the plaintiffs and defendant concerning the note aforesaid, and whether the same should be discharged in gold or silver, or in Commonwealth's Bank paper, and the defendant and plaintiffs, then and there, by parol, appointed William Goodloe and Joseph Kennedy to hear and determine for them said controversy, and mutually promised each other to stand to and abide by the award of the said William Goodloe and Joseph Kennedy thereupon; and the said defendant avers, that the said Goodloe and Kennedy, afterwards, to-wit, on the       day of aforesaid, at the county and circuit aforesaid, heard the said defendant and plaintiffs, and adjudged upon the premises and awarded, that the said defendant should pay the said plaintiffs the sum of one hundred dollars in notes on the Bank of the Commonwealth, and thereupon should be discharged from the note aforesaid, and notified the defendant and plaintiffs thereof; and the said defendant further avers, that afterwards, to-wit, on the       day of       aforesaid, at the  county and circuit aforesaid, in pursuance of said award, he tendered to said plaintiffs the said sum of one hundred dollars, in notes on the Commonwealth's bank, which the said plaintiffs utterly refused to accept, &c. *2 Plea of arbitrament and award. The plaintiffs demurred to this plea, and the demurrer being joined, was sustained by the court, and the defendant failing to answer, further judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiffs for the amount of the note, with interest and cost. Demurrer to the plea sustained, and judgment of the circuit court for plaintiff. To reverse that judgment, this writ of error, with supersedeas, is prosecuted. The sole question for decision is, as to the sufficiency of the plea to bar the action of the plaintiffs in the court below. Question stated. It need scarcely be remarked, that this question must be decided by the principles of the common law. By adverting to the act of the Legislature of this country upon the subject of awards, it will be perceived, at the first glance, that the submission and award relied on in the plea as a bar to the action of the plaintiff in the court below, can derive no aid from the act. The submission and award are both alleged by the plea, to have been verbally made, and the act contains no provision that can, upon any rule of interpretation, be construed to apply to submissions or awards of that character. The statute of Kentucky, Dig. L. K. 89, does not apply where the submission and award are by parol. But the act contains nothing going to do away the validity of awards, which, by the pre-existing law, would be binding on the parties, and of course the inquiry arises, does the submission and award mentioned in the plea, upon common law principles, form a good bar to the action? But the statute does not alter the common law of arbitrament and award. It is no doubt at common law generally true, that after an award made by arbitrators in pursuance of a submission by the parties, no action can be sustained upon the original cause submitted. For a breach of the award, the submission and award form the foundation of an action, and the party injured must resort to that action, and is not allowed to travel back and prosecute his suit upon the original demand, submitted to the determination of the arbitrators; and if he should do so, the action may be defeated by the defendant pleading in bar the submission and award. This at common law, may in the general, be done, whether the submission and award be in writing or verbal only. After submission and award in a case where it is obligatory, an action can not be maintained on the original cause; if the award be not performed, the action must be on it. To this general rule, however, there are exceptions; as, for example, wherever by the rules of law, the matter in contest is not the matter of arbitration, the right of parties can never be changed or effected by any submission or award; or where from the subject of arbitration, a writing is necessary to pass the right to the thing in demand, or to defeat or destroy the demand, the submission and award to be availing as a bar to that demand, must be in writing. Thus it is said that where the matter in contest arises ??n a deed, in all such cases, the submission must be by deed, because a specialty can never be answered but by a specialty. Kydd on Award, 51-2, and the authorities there cited. *3 Where the matter is not subject of arbitration, or it is a covenant and the submission is by parol, the original demand is not effected. An attempt is also made by Kydd, to prove, that at common law, a debt on a bond for a certain sum of money is not the subject of arbitration; but whether or not in that he has been successful, it is not essential for us now to inquire, for, conceding the doctrine of the law to be otherwise, we are constrained to say, that in such a case, the submission and award, to be of any avail, must be by deed. It follows, therefore, that as the action in this case is founded on a specialty, the parol submission and award relied on in the plea, constitute no good defence to the action. Query--Whether debt on a bond is the subject of arbitration. The judgment must consequently be affirmed, with cost and damages. Caperton, for plaintiff; Turner, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Logsdon v. Roberts' Ex'rs 3 T.B.Mon. 255, 19 Ky. 255, 1826 WL 1285 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
