(Cite as: 4 Bibb 292,  7 Ky. 292 (Ky.),  1816 WL 726 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hawkins' administrator v. Walkers. Apr. 2, 1816. *1 Indors ement on a bond, which was made at the time the bond was executed, is to be taken as a part of the bond. Acc. vol. 3, p. 10, 360. Bound to refund in the event of land being lost by interfering claims, averment that the land was lost by an interfering claim, etc., without showing what title or in what suit; this objection is cured by verdict. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 433(7) 302 Pleading 302XIX Aider by Verdict or Judgment 302k433 Defects in or Want of Declaration, Complaint, Petition, or Statement 302k433(7) k. Omissions in Actions Ex Contractu. Most Cited  Cases An averment, in suit on a bond given to refund if land should be lost by interfering claims, that the land was lost by an interfering claim, without showing by what title or in what suit, is sufficient after verdict. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was an action of debt, brought by the appellees upon a bond executed by Hawkins in his lifetime with a collateral condition. The declaration, after reciting the penal part of the bond and a condition to convey a certain described tract of land with special warranty deed, avers that upon the said recited bond and condition, there is an indorsement, made at the time and place of the execution of said bond, and to be taken as a part of the condition, and subscribed by the said Hawkins, etc., and which is in substance as follows, to-wit: "It is to be understood as a part of the condition of the within bond, that in case the land sold by James Hawkins should in course of the next ensuing four years be lost by any interfering claim, that in that case the said Walkers are to receive the money they have paid with interest, as well as the value of any improvements they may have made upon it; and if lost after the period of four years, the money paid is to be returned with interest, but no payment made for improvements. In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and seals, the 4th September, 1794." And alleged for breach, that after the period of four years said land was lost by an interferiny claim, etc. The defendant in the Court below, the present appellant, pleaded conditions performed; and on issue being joined thereon, a verdict and judgment were obtained in favor of the appellees. As the breach alleged applies exclusively to the stipulations contained in the indorsement recited, and as that indorsement appears not to have the seal of the appellant, it is contended the appellees have misconceived their action. If the indorsement be considered as an independent agreement, in no manner forming a part of the condition of the bond, it would be admitted the action brought upon the penalty cannot be maintained; but under the pleadings in this case, we conceive the indorsement cannot be so considered but must be taken as forming a constituent part of the condition. The indorsement is averred by the appellees in their declaration to have been made at the same time and place, and to be taken as a part of the condition of the bond; and as by the plea of the appellant those averments are impliedly admitted to be true, if in any case an indorsement made upon an obligation at the time of its execution can form a part thereof, the indorsement in question should be so considered. That such a case may exist, we have no doubt; for as a deed takes effect from its delivery, we apprehend a delivery with indorsements upon it will have the operation of giving effect to the agreement, according to the intention of the parties, as explained and controlled by the indorsements. *2 Assuming then that the indorsement constitutes part of the condition of the bond, it results that the action upon the penalty was properly conceived; but upon that supposition it is contended that the breach, in not showing by what title and in what suit the land was lost, is insufficient to support the judgment. Whether, according to the strict doctrine of pleading at common law, more precision would upon a special demurrer be required, is a question which need not in the present case be determined; for be that as it may, we apprehend after verdict the objection cannot be admitted to prevail. The objection at most cannot be viewed as a defective title set forth by the appellees, but rather as a title defectively stated; and as the judge cannot be presumed to have directed the jury to give, nor the jury to have given a verdict, unless proof was made of the loss of the land according to the effect of the covenant, the defect (if it can be so considered) is cured by the verdict. With respect to the judgment, we do not, as by the assignment of errors it is supposed, imagine the cost is directed to be paid out of the estate of the administrator; and although the judgment is very informally entered in other respects, we think it is in effect for the debt to be discharged by the payment of the damages, and as such substantially good. The other questions made by the assignment of errors having heretofore been settled by this Court, we have not though it material to notice them. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. Hawkins' Adm'r v. Walkers 4 Bibb 292, 7 Ky. 292, 1816 WL 726 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
