(Cite as: 5 Litt. 293,  15 Ky. 293 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1432 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Martin, &c. v. M'Cargo, &c. Jun. 2, 1824. *1 FROM THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 260 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchaser 161k260 k. Nature and effect of transfer in general. Most  Cited Cases A party claiming title to land under a sheriff's sale ought to show, not only the sheriff's deed, but the judgment and execution also. HANSON for plaintiffs; TAUL for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Neither of the defendants in error, who were complainants in the court below, are shown by the evidenc?? to be entitled to any part of the land decreed to them by that court. A complainant claiming a decree for land, must exhibit his title. It is essential to the establishment of the claim asserted by M'Cargo, under a sheriff's sale, that the judgment and execution by which the sale was made, should have been produced, but neither of which is contained in the record. And as respects the claim of the other complainant, it is totally unsupported by any evidence. A party claiming title to land under a sheriff's sale, must produce the judgment and execution by which the sale was made. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered dismissing the bill with costs. Micah Taul, Esq., counsel for the defendants, presented the following petition for a rehearing or modification of the decree: The counsel for the defendants respectfully requests the court to set aside the opinion pronounced herein, and grant a rehearing, for the following reasons, to-wit: The court say, in the opinion delivered, "it is essential to the establishment of the claim asserted by M'Cargo, under a sheriff's sale, that the judgment and execution by which the sale was made, should have been produced, but neither of which is contained in the record." The correctness of this position, will not be controverted. The counsel has, however, no doubt of the existence of such judgment and execution, and it had not been observed that they were not copied into the record. He knew the case would have to be reversed as to Knapp's heirs, and he not only supposed, but was informed by the counsel for the plaintiffs, that the only object of the suit was to obtain a reversal of the decree of the court below, as to that branch of the case. The plaintiffs admit that the entry under which the defendants (who were the complainants below) claim the land in controversy, is a valid one; of course, although the defendant, M'Cargo, has the best claim to the land in controversy, it will be lost to him, unless he is afforded an opportunity of supplying the defect in the record. Knapp's heirs, or part of them, are infants, and the suit was revived against them, and a guardian ad litem appointed, during the present term. It was not, therefore, supposed that the case would be tried. If, however, the court should not be disposed to grant a rehearing, for the reasons before stated, the counsel for M'Cargo would respectfully ask the court to change the opinion so far as to direct the bill to be dismissed without prejudice. *2 TAUL, for M'Cargo. But the court, on consideration, overruled the petition. Ky.App. 1824. Martin v. McCargo 5 Litt. 293, 15 Ky. 293, 1824 WL 1432 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
