(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 130,  17 Ky. 130 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1508 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hallowell v. Hallowell. Oct. 16, 1824. *1 Bills of Exceptions, Practice, Error, Evidence. APPEAL FROM THE TRIGG CIRCUIT; BENJAMIN SHACKE?? FORD, JUDGE. West Headnotes Trial 388 k 273 388 Trial 388VII Instructions to Jury 388VII(F) Objections and Exceptions 388k273 k. Time for Objection or Exception. Most Cited  Cases A party can except to the opinion of the court in giving or refusing instructions only at the time when they are given or refused. Appeal and Error 30 k 985 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(H) Discretion of Lower Court 30k985 k. Allowance and Perfecting of Appeal or Other  Proceeding for Review. Most Cited Cases Allowing time to tender bills of exception is a matter in the sound discretion of the court;  and, where they are allowed after judgment and enrolled without objection, this court will presume that time was properly allowed. Assault and Battery 37 k 33 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(B) Actions 37k25 Evidence 37k33 k. Aggravation of Damages. Most Cited  Cases Evidence of words spoken by defendant of plaintiff, either at the time of the assault, or at another time and place, is inadmissible in aggravation of damages. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This was an action of trespass, assault and batte?? brought in the circuit court by Margaret Hallow?? against Noah Hallowell. The declaration contains two counts. To the fi?? count Noah Hallowell pleaded the general issue, a?? to the second be pleaded son assault demesne. An iss?? was made up by the parties to each plea, and on ?? trial a verdict for eight hundred dollars was found ?? Margaret Hallowell. A motion for a new trial was then made by N?? Hallowell; but it was overruled by the court, ?? judgment rendered in conformity to the verdict. After the judgment was entered, a bill of excepti?? was tendered to the opinion of the court admitting ?? dence on the trial, as well as refusing to award a ?? trial; and after being signed and sealed by the co?? the exceptions were made part of the record. To reverse the judgment rendered against him, N?? Hallowell appealed to this court. The assignment of errors questions the correctnes?? each opinion of the court excepted to by the appell?? (1.) Before we examine the correctness of the ??ions, it is proper that we should notice an objec?? taken in argument, to the time of excepting in the ?? below. It was said, that if, in admitting the evid?? the opinion of the court was not satisfactory to th?? pellant, he should immediately have tendered his?? ceptions; and as he failed to do so until after judg?? it was contended the exceptions came too late; an?? ??hough the court may have erred in admitting the evi??ence, it was insisted the error ought not to be regard??d by this court.FNa1 FNa1. ??he objection taken by the counsel to the bill of exceptions may ?? und in a petition for a re-hearing of the case of Cochran's execu?? v. Davis, presented about the time this cause was argued, 5 Litt., ?? The case of Walton v. the United States, there cited, and ??h was also relied upon in this argument, is since ??eported, 9 ??ton, 657. *2 (1) The court is not bound in all cases to allow exceptions, after trial, to opinions given in its progress. That it would not, in all cases, be incumbent on the ??ourt of original jurisdiction, after trial, to allow ex??eptions to opinions given in the progress of the trial, ?? a proposition that we shall not controvert. (2) It might happen, that if, while the thing is trans??cting in court, the party against whom an opinion is ??ven on points of evidence, should tender exceptions, ??e adverse party, rather than risk the question in the ??vising court, would prefer waiving the evidence ??hich by the opinion should be held competent, and ??ly upon other testimony of a less doubtful character. ?? A proper regard to the interest of the parties would, ??erefore, seem to require of him against whom an ??inion is given in the progress of a trial, to tender to ??e court his exceptions whilst the thing is transacting, ??less, by permission of the court, further time is al??wed him to do so. But whether or not further time ??ll be given to make out the exceptions, must, we ap??ehend, be a matter within the sound discretion of the ??urt. Though in some cases, it might be proper to ??quire the exceptions to be taken immediately on the ?? inion being pronounced by the court, in others no in??stice would be done and the progress of business ??uld be greatly facilitated by allowing time until af?? the trial is over, to prepare the exceptions. (2) Bills of exceptions ought to be tendered immediately after the decision is pronounced, unless time is given by the court. (3) It is not, however, to any improper exercise of ?? discretion of the court, that the argument employ?? in the present case is addressed. Without any objec??ns being made in the court below, as to the time of ??senting the bill of exceptions, they were signed, ??led and enrolled by the court; and because that ap??rs to have been done after the judgment was enter?? the argument assumes the position, that, as to the ??nion given on the trial, the exceptions should be ??ated as a nullity by this court. But if we are cor??t in supposing it a matter within the discretion of ?? court, to give time to prepare and tender exceptions as the bill of exceptions was signed and enroll?? by the court, we must suppose that it was made o?? and presented under the permission of the court, a?? of course, we must presume that in giving permissi?? the discretion of the court, was correctly exercised. (3) Allowing time to tender bills of exceptions, is a matter in the sound discretion of the court; therefore, where they are allowed after judgment, and enrolled without objection, this court will suppose that time was properly allowed. The objection as to the time of excepting, cann?? therefore, be sustained; so that we are necessar?? brought to consider the correctness of the opinion ?? the court below, admitting evidence to the jury. After the evidence conducing to prove the inju?? complained of in the declaration, was through, one?? the witnesses for the plaintiff in the court below, st??ed that after the combat was over, but whilst the p??ties remained at the place where it happened, the ?? fendant in that court (the appellant here) employed ?? gravating and provoking language to the plaintiff. T?? precise expressions used by the defendant, though ?? peated by the witness are not necessary to be menti??ed; but among others, some were spoken which are ?? defamatory character, and for which if not true, an??tion of slander might be sustained by the plaintiff. ?? witness further stated that after the plaintiff w?? drew from the place where the combat happened?? her residence, she was pursued by the defendant, ?? there threatened by him, that he would strip her, ?? her up, and get rods for his mother to whip her; bu?? attempt was made by him to do so. *3 The evidence improperly admitted. (4) The statements so made by the witness, a?? what was said by the defendant after the combat ?? over, were contended by his counsel in the court be?? to be inadmissible evidence; and the question w?? it now becomes necessary to examine, is, whethe?? not that court was correct in deciding the eviden?? be admissible, and allowing it to go to the jury. (4) Words spoken by defendant, of plaintiff, immediately after, and at the place of combat, which, if not true, would support slander, can not be given in evidence in an action for the assault, &c. Testing this question by the principle which us?? governs courts in the admission of evidence, it is ?? ous that the statement of the witness, so far as it ?? to detail the expressions of the defendant for whi?? action of slander might be sustained by the plai?? was incompetent evidence in this case, and ough?? to have been admitted. Those statements were?? doubtedly no way calculated to illustrate the tru?? any fact put in issue by the pleadings; and, gene?? speaking, nothing which in itself constitutes a ca?? action, and which is not contained in the declar?? can be proved an aggravation of damages. (5) With respect to the residue of the statement ??ade by the witness, as to what was said by the defen??nt at the place of the combat, it admits of more ??ubt. We think, however, that nothing which was said ??ter the combat was over, ought to have been permit??d to go in evidence to the jury. confessions of a party ??luntarily made, are no doubt, always competent evi??nce; but it is not discerned, how language spoken of ?? plaintiff by the defendant, after an injury is com??tted, though ever so aggravating and provoking, can ??gravate the injury, or justify the jury in giving ??eater damages than would be otherwise proper to be ??en. (5) Abusive language, though not actionable, used by defendant to plaintiff after the assault is ended, and at a different place, is not admissible evidence. The court, therefore, erred in admitting the evidence, ?? consequently the judgment must be reversed with ??ts, the cause remanded to that court, and further ??ceedings there had not inconsistent with this op??n. ??Bibb, for appellant; Monroe and Sharp, for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Hallowell v. Hallowell 1 T.B.Mon. 130, 17 Ky. 130, 1824 WL 1508 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
