(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 442,  8 Ky. 442 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1027 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Heath et al. v. Thomas Allin. Apr. 12, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE MASON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 125 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k123 Coexecutors and Coadministrators 162k125 k. Joint or Several Liability. Most Cited  Cases One of two executors does not, by practicing a fraud in the sale of his testator's estate, subject his co-executor to an action. Executors and Administrators 162 k 116 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k116 k. Fraud. Most Cited Cases An executor practicing a fraud in the sale of his testator's estate is answerable personally, and not in his fiduciary capacity. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment rendered in favor of Allin, in an action brought by him for a fraud alleged to have been committed by Heath and Forman in the sale of an unsound negro woman and her child. The question made in this court, involve the propriety of the refusal of the court below to grant a new trial. The motion was made on the ground of the verdict being against evidence; so that it is material, barely to review the evidence referred to in the bill of exceptions taken to that court's refusal and upon which the verdict of the jury appears to have been founded. The evidence, as respects Heath, although not the most convincing, is certainly of a character which forbids the interposition of this court, against the finding of the jury, and the decision of the judge presiding at the trial. But with respect to Forman, the record is totally destitute of any evidence conducing, in the slightest degree, to the establishment of a fraud. None of the witnesses prove he had any knowledge, when the negroes were sold, of their unsoundness; nor does either of them suggest a single point from which such a knowledge can, by any fair inference, be deduced. If, from the knowledge of Heath, that of Forman could be inferred, then, as the evidence conduces to show that Heath knew of the unsoundness, the jury decided correctly in finding both guilty. But as we are of opinion the guilt of Forman ought not and can not, be deduced from that of Heath. In ordinary cases, the liability of one certainly is not implied in the guilt of another; and in the present case, although Forman and Heath both are shown to be the executors of the last will of John Heath, deceased, and the negroes appear to have been sold by them in their fiduciary character, yet, as for the commission of a fraud in the sale of the decedent's estate, they are liable in their personal right, for the fraud of one the other should not be chargeable. One of two executors practicing a fraud in the sale of his testator's estate, does not subject his co-executor to an action. *2 An executor practicing a fraud in the sale of his testator's estate, is answerable pers nally, not in his fiduciary capacity. There being no evidence, therefore, conducing to establish a fraud on Forman, the verdict of the jury against both of the defendants in the court below, is clearly against evidence, and the judgment of the court in conformity to that finding must, consequently, be irregular. But as the cause must be remanded to that court for further proceedings it may be proper to remark, that as there exists no solid objection against the finding of the jury against Heath, the plaintiff there should be permitted, if he should desire to do so, to enter a nolle prosequi as to Forman, and take judgment against Heath; but if that should not be desired, then, as the application for a new trial is by both, it must be awarded. The judgment must, however, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Bibb, for plaintiff; Pope for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1819. Heath v. Allin 1 A.K.Marsh. 442, 8 Ky. 442, 1819 WL 1027 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
