(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 555,  8 Ky. 555 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1079 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Asa Hall v. Martin Gentry. Jun. 7, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE BULLITT CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 41 2 Abatement and Revival 2IV Transfer or Devolution of Title, Right, Interest, or Liability 2k41 k. Plaintiff's Title, Right, or Interest in General. Most Cited Cases The assignment of a note during the pendency of a suit on it operates as a dismissal of the suit. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment of the circuit court of Bullitt, rendered in favor of Gentry, on the trial of an appeal from a judgment of a justice of the peace, also pronounced in his favor upon a warrant which had been sued out against him by Hall. On the trial, had without pleading in writing, in the circuit court, after the obligation, upon which Hall's demand is founded, was produced in evidence, the counsel of Gentry read in evidence an endorsement on the obligation, purporting to assign the same to Wyatt Gentry, Nicholas Gentry and John Hall, and upon his motion, the court instructed the jury, that if they believed the assignment, they must find for Gentry. And whether the court decided correctly, is the main and only question necessary to be noticed by this court. The obligation being in its nature assignable, and forming the basis of an action, there is no question, but that if it had been assigned before the emanation of the warrant, Hall could not maintain the suit in his name, but as the assignment appears not to have been made until after the rendition of the judgment appealed from, it is contended that Hall's right to recover can not have been thereby defeated. A note assigned during the pendency of a suit upon it, operates as a dismissal of the suit. On appeal from a judgment of a justice of the peace against the defendant, the appellant in the circuit court occupies the ground of a defendant. We do not, however, suppose, that the circumstance of the judgment having been given by the justice before the assignment, can have any material bearing upon the case. For as, by the act regulating proceedings in such cases, the trial is directed to be had in the circuit court upon the merits, as though no trial had previously taken place, it is obvious the judgment of the justice must, by an appeal, become inoperative, and, consequently, the defendant in the warrant should assume the attitude of a defendant in the circuit court, and be entitled to every privilege and allowed to urge every defence which would be availing in action originating in that court. And that to such an action, the subsequent assignment of the bond upon which it might be founded, would form an availing defence, we entertain no doubt. It is essential that a plaintiff should have a good ground of action as well at the trial as at the commencement of the suit. For it is not only necessary that the plaintiff should have a good cause of action at its commencement, but to entitle him to recover, he should, moreover, have a subsisting cause of action at the trial. *2 A majority of the court, therefore, Judge Rowan dissenting, are of opinion that the instructions of the circuit court are correct, and the judgment must be affirmed with cost. Wickliffe, for plaintiff; B. Hardin, for defendant in error. Judge Rowan is of the opinion, that when a suit is instituted upon a note or bill, the negotiability of the paper ceases with the commencement of the suit, is suspended during its progress, and expires with its termination in a final judgment. By the institution of the suit thereon, the paper is withdrawn from the theater of commerce to the temple of justice, which can no more than that of our holy religion, be occupied or polluted by money changers. That the process of adjudication upon, and the negotiation of, the same note, at the same time, are intrinsically ingruous; the former settles, the latter generates dispute. He is therefore of opinion, that the assignment is either inoperative, or operates to transfer the beneficial effect, or result of the suit, the note having been incorporated in the suit, at the time the assignment was made. His brethren consider the assignment as operating upon the note in exclusion of the suit, with which it is incorporated, and importing a transfer of the cause of action, and of course a dismissal of the suit. He considers (if it is to operate at all) that it operates upon the note in its state of identification with the suit, and should be interpreted as a transfer of the beneficial result of both, and not a dismissal of the suit--"Sensus verborum ex causa dicendi accipiendus est." Ky.App. 1819. Hall v. Gentry 1 A.K.Marsh. 555, 8 Ky. 555, 1819 WL 1079 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
