(Cite as: 4 Bibb 357,  7 Ky. 357 (Ky.),  1816 WL 769 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The executors of John Lawrence v. the administrators of Robert Lawrence. Jun. 3, 1816. *1 Where the fact cannot be supposed to have been in the knowledge of the defendant, proof of the allegation in the bill by one witness is sufficient to authorize a decree against the answer--as where the allegation was of payment made to the intestate in his lifetime. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 345 150 Equity 150V Evidence 150k338 Answer as Evidence 150k345 k. Evidence to Overcome Answer. Most Cited  Cases Where a fact testified to by one witness cannot, from the nature of the transaction, be known to the defendant, the evidence of one credible witness was held sufficient to establish the bill in opposition to the answer of the defendant. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is a writ of error brought to reverse a decree of the Court below dismissing the bill of the plaintiffs, exhibited for the purpose of being relieved against a judgment at law recovered by the defendants in an action prosecuted by them against the plaintiffs. The judgment was obtained upon an obligation given by the testator John in his lifetime to the intestate Robert, and relief was sought upon the grounds of Robert, after the execution of the obligation, having received from Charles Ford the sum of $60, which Ford had previously promised to pay the said John, and in consideration of which promise the obligation is alleged to have been given to Robert. We have no doubt but what the plaintiffs have shown in their bill a sufficient cause for applying to a Court of Equity; and the only inquiry to which the attention of this Court is necessary to be drawn, is as to the sufficiency of the evidence to authorize relief. That Robert Lawrence received the money from Ford, is expressly proven by Ford's deposition; and although there is no other evidence in the cause conducing to the same result, that deposition we suppose under the circumstances of this cause is sufficient to authorize a decree for the plaintiffs; for although equity will not in the general relieve upon the evidence of a single witness, in opposition to the denial of the answer, yet when as in the present case the fact denied cannot from the nature of the transaction be within the knowledge of the defendant, the evidence of one creditable witness is all that ought to be required; and as Ford's credibility is unimpeached in this cause, upon his evidence a decree should have been entered in favor of the plaintiffs, perpetuating their injunction to the judgment at law recovered by the defendants, and for costs. But as that was not done, the decree must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and a decree there entered consistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1816. Lawrence's Ex'rs v. Lawrence's Adm'rs 4 Bibb 357, 7 Ky. 357, 1816 WL 769 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
