(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 468,  10 Ky. 468 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1135 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Humble's Heirs v. Hinkson's Heirs. Jun. 5, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE HARRISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Courts 106 k 473 106 Courts 106VII Concurrent and Conflicting Jurisdiction 106VII(A) Courts of Same State 106VII(A)1 In General 106k473 k. Election of Tribunal. Most Cited  Cases Where equity and the courts of law have concurrent jurisdiction, a party may bring his suit in either. Descent and Distribution 124 k 124 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(C) Debts of Intestate and Incumbrances on Property 124k122 Liabilities on Receipt of Personal Property or  Distributive Share 124k124 k. Extent of Liability. Most Cited  Cases Where a vendee applies to the court to cancel a contract for the sale of land made prior to 1792, the heirs of the deceased vendor are liable only to refund the purchase money to the extent of the personal estate received by them;  the suit not being on the bond by which the heirs are bound. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: In 1788, Conrad Humble purchased from John Hinkson three hundred acres of land, part of Silas Trains' settlement, paid the purchase money, and received from Hinkson an obligation to make a good and sufficient deed as soon after as Hinkson might or could obtain a title from a certain George Wilson. Under his purchase, Humble took possession of the land, and he and his heirs and devisees continued in possession thereof, until they were served with a declaration in ejectment at the suit of a certain John Martin, who claimed the land under an adverse title, junior in date to the patent which issued to the heir of Train. To the action of ejectment no defence was made by the heirs and devisees of Humble, and judgment was taken against the casual ejector by default, in 1808. The heirs and devisees of Humble then exhibited their bill in equity against the heirs of Hinkson, charging, that at the time the decedent Humble purchased the land, Hinkson had no title, nor the means of procuring one; that through his false and fraudulent misrepresentations, Humble was prevailed on to make the purchase; that neither Hinkson, the ancestor, nor his heirs since, have ever procured a title from the heir of Train, and are now unable to comply with the obligation to Conrad Humble; and alleging that they have been evicted from the land by Martin and ask a rescission of the contract of purchase made by Conrad Humble from John Hinkson. They moreover charge, that the heirs of Hinkson have received by descent landed estate to a considerable amount, and also that they have received personal estate to an amount greater than the purchase money for the land. They also allege that there is no administration of the estate of Hinkson, and pray for compensation against the heirs, &c. *2 The heirs of Hinkson admit the sale made by their ancestor to Humble; deny, that any fraud was committed by him in the sale; allege, that, although he had no title, that circumstance was known to Humble, when he made the purchase, and insist, that the contract was made in good faith, and with an honest intention to make the title as soon as one could be procured from George Wilson, with whom Hinkson, their ancestor, had previously contracted for the land. The heirs also admit the commencement of the ejectment by Martin; but allege, that Martin's claim is junior in date, to that of Train; and insist, that the recovery by Martin was collusive and fraudulent; and deny, that the heirs and devisees of Humble have, in fact, been evicted from the land; and they contend that, if the contract is cancelled, the possession of the land should be restored to them, before any compensation should be made to the heirs and devisees of Humble. Some of the heirs admit they have received personal estate to an amount named, and others deny the receipt of any; and it is not denied but real estate has descended to them by their ancestor, &c. On a final hearing, the circuit court pronounced a decree, cancelling the contract; and, without directing the land to be restored to the heirs of Hinkson, decree the purchase money, with interest, to be paid the complainants; and directed that, in that payment, each of the heirs of Hinkson should contribute the amount by him received, of the personal estate, and the residue to be levied by elegit, out of the land descended from their ancestor. From that decree, the heirs have appealed. There is certainly no ground for the charge of fraud against Hinkson in making the sale of the land. He appears not to have had the legal title to the land, but that circumstance was known to Humble; and, from the depositions and exhibits in the cause, it is obvious that when he sold the land, he was under an honest conviction, that he would be enabled to obtain the title, and intended to comply with his obligation to Humble. Neither Hinkson nor his heirs appears, however, to have obtained a title to any part of the settlement of Train, and after a failure for such a lapse of time as has intervened since the date of the contract, we apprehend, it was competent for the heirs and devisees of Humble to abandon all advantage from the contract, and apply to the chancellor for a rescission of the contract, and to be compensated for the purchase money. A purchaser of lands, by bond, from one having no title, may resort, after a great lapse of time, either to law, for compensation, or to equity for a dissolution of the contract, the jurisdiction is concurrent. If, as was contended in argument, Hinkson might have obtained a title to the land, under his covenant to make a title as soon as he might or could obtain one, the heirs of Humble might, no doubt, have sustained an action against Hinkson's representatives at law; but their having a right to sue at law, furnishes no objection to their applying to a court of equity. For as each court possesses jurisdiction of the subject matter; the court of equity to cancel the contract; and the court of law to give compensation for a breach of the contract; it was at the election of Humble's representatives to resort for relief to either. *3 But admitting the propriety of the application to a court of equity, we apprehend, the land which has descended from John Hinkson, can not be made chargeable in the hands of his heirs. As his heirs are specially bound in the obligation to Humble, they would be liable in an action on the bond; but relief is not sought in equity on the bond, but its cancelment is demanded, and compensation claimed on the ground of its being proper for the court, on cancelling the contract, to restore the parties to the situation they were in when the contract was made. On canceling the contract, therefore, the only liability which Hinkson, if living, could be under, would arise from having received the sale money, and as that was received prior to 1792, it can have imposed no obligation on his heirs. As Hinkson, if living, would, on the contract being canceled, be compelled to refund the sale money with interest, his personal estate is no doubt liable, and as there is no executor or administrator against whom suit can be brought, it was competent for the heirs of Humble to pursue the personal property in the hands of Hinkson's heirs. But as it is in consequence of the heirs of Hinkson having received the personal estate, and not from any contract of their ancestor that they can be charged in this contest, the extent of recovery against them ought not to exceed the amount of personal estate received by them. If the vendee applies to equity for a cancelment of the contract made prior to 1792, lands coming by descent to the heir of the vendor is not subject, in his hands, to refund the purchase money, tho' the heir be bound in the bond, for the suit is not bro't on the bond but for the purpose of placing the parties in statu quo, and because the lands of the obligor could not be subjected (from the date of the contract) so neither can they be in the hands of the heir unless suit be brought on the bond. But before they are made liable to that extent, we suppose, that the heirs of Humble should be compelled to restore the possession to them of the land which was purchased from their ancestor. For, unless that is done, they will not be restored to the situation which they would have been in, if no contract or sale had been made by their ancestor; and it is a general rule, that a court of equity will not lend its aid in setting aside a contract, without requiring of the complainant to place his adversary in statu quo. To this general rule, it is true, there may be exceptions; but the case now under consideration, is not of that character. The only circumstance relied on in argument, as taking this case out of the general rule, is that of the heirs of Humble having been evicted from the land by the adverse claim of Martin. On setting aside a contract for the sale of lands where possession passed to the vendee, the parties should be placed in statu quo and the possession restored simultaneously with the operation of the decree unless the vendee has been evicted under a bona fide recovery. *4 But the answer of Hinkson's heirs allege the eviction to have been collusively attained, and expressly deny that Humble's heirs were evicted from the whole of the land purchased by their ancestor; and there is no proof in the cause conducing to shew the extent of the eviction; besides, it is manifest, from Humble's heirs' own shewing that the title of Train is paramount to that of Martin, and they appear not only to have failed to make any defence to the suit brought by Martin, but it does not appear that they ever notified the heirs of Hinkson of the pendency of that suit. An eviction thus obtained, and so uncertain in its extent, forms no excuse for not compelling the heirs of Humble to restore the possession of the land. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered, cancelling the contract, and compelling the heirs of Hinkson to pay, respectively, the amount of the personal estate received by them, unless that amount should exceed the consideration received by their ancestor for the land, and interest thereon, and, in case it does exceed that amount, then to pay ratably in proportion to what each has received; but if the personal estate, received by the heirs, amounts to less than the consideration and interest, the residue, after paying the amount received, to be paid by the heirs of personal estate, which shall hereafter come to their hands; but the payment must be decreed to be made on the contingency of the heirs of Humble delivering to the heirs of Hinkson, against a day to be named in the decree, the land purchased by their ancestor; and on their failure to deliver the possession against the day, their bill must be dismissed without prejudice to any action which they may have at law on the obligation of Hinkson. When personal assets have come to the hands of the heirs, the refund should be decreed out of the personal estate of the ancestor in their hands. Ky.App. 1821. Humble's Heirs v. Hinkson's Heirs 3 A.K.Marsh. 468, 10 Ky. 468, 1821 WL 1135 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 195 END OF DOCUMENT
