(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 231,  10 Ky. 231 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1044 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. J. S. Smith v. Wm. Frame. Apr. 5, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 14 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(B) Actual Possession 20k14 k. Necessity. Most Cited Cases Where a patentee holds two adjoining patents, interfering in part with two other claims, one of which is elder, and the other junior, if the junior patentee enters on the elder entry, and also on one of the adjoining entries, but not on the other, it is not an ouster as to the entry not entered on. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This appeal is prosecuted by Smith, to reverse a judgment recovered by him for part of the land in contest, in an action of ejectment which he brought against Frame in the circuit court. It appears, that on the 24th of October, 1788, there issued from the Commonwealth of Virginia, to Benjamin Estill, heir at law to James Estill, dec'd., a patent for 400 acres of land; and on the 29th of the same month, there also issued to the same person, from the same source, another patent for 400 acres, adjoining the tract first granted, on the south. These tracts were afterwards conveyed by Estill to Green Clay, and by Clay to the appellant, Smith. It also appears, that in February, 1789, there issued from the Commonwealth of Virginia, to Mordecai Kelly, a patent for 500 acres of land, including part of each of the tracts previously patented to Estill; and afterwards, in 1792, Kelly conveyed, by metes and bounds, to Frame, 125 acres, part of his 500 acre tract, and including part of each of Estill's tract; and that in the same year the conveyance was made. Frame built a house and actually settled on the land conveyed to him, and within the boundary of the southern 400 acre tract of Estill; but no part of his improvements extended to the northern tract of Estill, until since 1808, and no evidence was introduced conducing to shew that Frame, prior to 1808, ever actually entered upon the northern tract with the intention of taking the possession thereof. It moreover, appears, that in 1786, previous to the date of Estill's patents, there also issued from the Commonwealth of Virginia, to Jeremiah Craig, a patent for 500 acres of land, including no part of the tract first patented to Estill, but including nearly all of his tract last patented, and also including the settlement of Frame, together with all improvements made by him, prior to 1808. On this state of facts, the counsel of Frame, moved the court to instruct the jury, that Frame's settlement upon, and possession within the southern or latter tract patented to Estill, gave him possession to the extent of the boundaries of his deed from Kelly. This motion was opposed by the counsel of Smith, and they moved the court to instruct the jury, 1st, that Frame could not be considered a trespasser on Estill's northern 400 acre tract, until he extended his plantation, or actually cleared land thereon; 2d, that as Smith never had a right of entry in the southern tract, it being covered by Craig's elder patent, the possession of Frame inside of that tract, did not operate as a disseizin of any part of the northern tract. But the court overruled the motion of Smith's counsel, and gave the instructions asked for by the counsel of Frame. *2 From the preceding statement, it will be perceived, that at the time Frame entered, Craig held the right of entry in the land included by his patent; and Estill held the right of entry in the land included by his northern patent; so that in reversing the opinions of the circuit court, on the motion for instructions, we are presented with the inquiry, whether, or not, in consequence of his deed from Kelly, including part of the several tracts of Estill and Craig, Frame, by his settlement and improvement within Craig's patent, became possessed of any part of Estill's northern tract? We think not. At the time of his entry, Frame had no legal right of entry. He held a deed from Kelly, but as Kelly's patent was junior to both Craig's and Estill's, it conferred upon him no right of entry, and Frame, claiming under him, can have acquired no right. His entry was, therefore, wrongful; but though wrongful, yet, as it was made under color or claim of title, Frame, thereby, not only divested Craig of his seizin, but became, himself, invested with an estate in the land, to the extent of his possession. But, as the entry was made on Craig's tract, it can not be construed either to vest in Frame, an estate in the separate tract of Estill, or divest Estill of his legal seizin therein. For it is said, that, to vest or divest an estate, in several parcels, by entry, there must be an entry on each parcel. Co. Lit. 15, b. And in illustration of the rule, are cases where entry is allowed by law; but if in "generally for a mortmain, or a feoffor for a condition broken, or the disseizee into a parcel generally, the entry shall not vest or divest in these or like cases, but for that parcel." The cases, here put by Coke, in illustration of the rule, are cases here entry is allowed by law; but if in such cases, the entry is inoperative beyond the parcel on which it is made, it follows a fortiori, that an entry made against law upon the lands of one, can not either be construed to give possession, or vest an estate in the separate tract of another. It results, therefore, that the settlement and improvements of Frame, on the tract of Craig, gave him no possession of any part of the northern tract of Estill, unless the circumstance of Estill having also a patent for the land on which the improvement and settlement were made, changes the nature of Estill's right. It is obvious, however, that circumstance can produce no effect upon the entry of Frame. The patent which Estill held for the land improved by Frame, as we have already seen, is junior in date to that of Craig; it was, therefore, inoperative; neither conferring upon Estill any right, or enabling Frame by entering thereon, to oust Estill of any interest which he held in the other tract. A patentee holding two adjoining patents interfering in part with two other claims, one of which has the elder patent, the other the junior, if the junior patentee enters on the elder patentee, and also on one of the adjoining patents, but not on the other, it is no disseizin as to the patent not entered on; for to vest or divest an estate in several parcels by entry, there must be an entry on each parcel. *3 It follows, that the court erred in its decision on the motion to instruct the jury; and the judgment for that cause must be reversed. But it appears that Smith had, at a previous term of the court below, recovered a verdict for the land contained in his northern tract, and that verdict, at the instance of Frame, was set aside, and a new trial awarded; and it is assigned for error, that the court erred in awarding a new trial. The grounds, upon which the new trial was granted, consist in Frame's being surprised by the failure of Smith to produce the patent of Estill's southern tract. The circumstances, detailed in the bill of exceptions, are perhaps sufficient to shew that Frame was surprised by the patent not being produced by Smith on the trial; but from what has been said, in deciding on the motions to instruct the jury, it is obvious, that the patent, if it had been produced, ought to have had no influence favorable to Frame; and if so, the court ought not to have awarded a new trial on the ground of surprise alleged by Frame. Though in fact surprise may exist, yet if it be on a point which could not avail the complaining party, it is no ground for new trial. The judgment must therefore be reversed wits costs, the cause remanded, and judgment entered in favor of Smith on the first verdict of the jury. Hardin, for appellant; Hanson, for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Smith v. Frame 3 A.K.Marsh. 231, 10 Ky. 231, 1821 WL 1044 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
