(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 99,  17 Ky. 99 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1498 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Abby v. Ferguson. Oct. 13, 1824. *1 Demurrer, Pleading by Defendant, Statutes. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 136 302 Pleading 302III Responses or Responsive Pleadings in General 302III(D) Matter in Avoidance 302k136 k. Matter Available Under General Issue or General  Denial. Most Cited Cases A special plea, though it amounts only to the general issue, is good. Pleading 302 k 218(3) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k218 Hearing and Determination on Demurrer 302k218(3) k. Findings, Decision, Order, or Judgment. Most  Cited Cases A single demurrer to several pleas must be sustained as to all those that are bad;  but, if there is any good, it must be so far overruled, and upon the good plea or pleas defendant must have judgment, unless the plaintiff tenders a sufficient replication, or there is something else to prevent it. Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 20 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k17 Pleading 42k20 k. Plea or Affidavit of Defense. Most Cited Cases Under a statute doing away with objections to the form of pleading, and allowing any matter in bar of the action to be specially pleaded, a plea that the assumpsit charge in the declaration was made without consideration is good. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment ??ecovered by Ferguson, in an action of assumpsit, which was brought against him in the court below, by Abby. The judgment was rendered by the court upon a de??nurrer put in by Abby, to two pleas which were filed ??y Ferguson; so that the case must turn, in this court, ??pon the question, whether or not either of those pleas ??ontains a valid bar to the action of Abby; for, if either ??lea contains sufficient matter to bar the action, as its truth is admitted by the demurrer, the court must have been correct in rendering judgment against Abby, though, in point of law, the facts alleged in the other plea be admitted to form no available defence to the action. Where there is a demurrer to several pleas, if either be good judgment must be for the defendant. And that one of the pleas alleges sufficient matter, if true, to bar the action, we apprehend, can not be seriously doubted. The plea to which we allude, is that which alleges the assumpsit charged in the declaration to have been made without any consideration whatever. Plea that the assumpsit charged in the declaration was made without any consideration, is now good. It is not intended to say, that the plea would be sustained upon the technical rules of pleading at common law. It contains no defence which might not be availing on the general issue; and, perhaps, at common law, would, upon that ground, be held insufficient upon a special demurrer. *2 That the defense made in a plea available on the general issue, was a good objection at common law, on special demurrer. But, by an act of the legislature of this country, objections to the form of pleading are done away; and by the now existing law, any matter that will bar an action, may be employed in defence, by special plea, although it might be availing on the general issue. Is it then true, that in point of law the matter alleged in the plea forms a bar to the action? That it does, requires only to be stated, to command the assent of all who pretend to any knowledge of legal principles; for there is no rule better known, and none more universally recognized by legal writers, than that which requires a consideration of some sort, for every promise or assumpsit upon which an action can be sustained. Since our statute, dispensing with form in pleading, any matter that bars the action, may be specially pleaded, though good on the general issue. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Triplett and Crittenden, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1824. Abby v. Ferguson 1 T.B.Mon. 99, 17 Ky. 99, 1824 WL 1498 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
