(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 32,  17 Ky. 32 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1472 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Kee v. Hoover. Oct. 7, 1824. *1 Indented Servants, Assignment of Indentures, Equity. ERROR TO THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT; WILLIAM L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Labor and Employment 231H k 925 231H Labor and Employment 231HX Apprentices 231Hk925 k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 255k9.1  Master and Servant, 32k9  Apprentices) An intendure of service may be assigned, so as to transfer the term, by observing the formalities prescribed by statute, but if these be not observed the legal right does not pass. Labor and Employment 231H k 925 231H Labor and Employment 231HX Apprentices 231Hk925 k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 255k9.1  Master and Servant, 32k9  Apprentices) The obligation given in consideration of an agreement to assign the term of indented servants is not affected because, in the attempt to make the transfer in the mode desired by the assignee, the servants were liberated. Assignments 38 k 19 38 Assignments 38I Property, Estates, and Rights Assignable 38k17 Executory Contracts 38k19 k. Personal Nature. Most Cited Cases A contract by one person to serve another for a certain length of time, imposes on the former an obligation of servitude, and such contract may be assigned so as to transfer the term;  but, if the servant is liberated because the transfer was made in an informal manner, the obligation given in consideration of the assignment is not invalidated. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This was a bill in equity, with injunction, exhibited by Hoover in the circuit court, to be relieved against a judgment which M'Kee had recovered at law upon a note for three hundred and fifty dollars. The note is alleged to have been given for the purchase of some German servants, for a term to which the agents of M'Kee, at the time of making the sale, are charged to have represented that he was entitled, but to which it is alleged M'Kee had no right, and that, in consequence thereof, the Germans, after they were received in the possession of Hoover, were discharged from servitude and set at liberty by the judgment of a circuit judge, rendered on a writ of habeas corpus, sued out by them for that purpose. It is also alleged, that after the Germans were discharged, M'Kee was informed thereof, and requested to restore them to Hoover; but he refused to do so, and agreed to accept one-third of the price which Hoover was to pay, as a satisfaction for the amount of the note. The court below, on a final hearing, decreed a perpetual injunction against one hundred and fifty dollars of the judgment, and ordered M'Kee to pay costs. There was no decree as to the residue of the judgment; nor was it necessary, under the state of the record, that there should have been. Except the one hundred and fifty dollars, the judgment had been discharged by Hoover, under an agreement with M'Kee, that it should not be drawn in question, and of course was not a matter proper to be noticed in the decree. *2 But with respect to the one hundred and fifty dollars perpetually enjoined, the principle is not discerned, upon which the decree can be sustained. (1.) It is admitted by M'Kee, that the note was executed to Hoover for the purchase of a term of service which his agents may have represented the Germans were under obligations to him to perform; and if, in making those representations, the agents of M'Kee had practiced fraud upon Hoover, there might have been some color for the application to a court of equity. But, from the evidence contained in the record, there is not the slightest pretext for the accusation of fraud. The representations which were made to Hoover by the agents, are not only proved to have been made in good faith and an honest conviction of their truth, but M'Kee's right to the service of the Germans for the term represented, is indisputably established by the proof. He is proved to have become entitled to their service under a contract made in the State of Maryland, and in consideration of a full and valuable consideration paid by him, a written indenture for the term of service was actually and in due form executed by each of them. Such a contract undoubtedly, by the laws of this country, imposed upon the Germans, after they arrived here, obligations of servitude; and of course, in representing to Hoover that M'Kee was entitled to their service, the agents were perfectly correct. (1) An indenture by a German for a term of service, executed in state of Maryland, on sufficient consideration and in due form, imposes on him a legal obligation of servitude in this country. (2.) True, the Germans are admitted to have been discharged from the service of Hoover by a judgment, acting upon a writ of habeas corpus; but they do not appear to have been discharged on the ground of any defect in M'Kee's right to their service when the contract was made with Hoover; they were discharged, in all probability, in consequence of Hoover not having gained by the contract with M'Kee, a legal investment of his right. The act of the legislature of this country requires particular ceremonies to be observed in the assignment of indentures for service, which were not observed in transferring the indentures held by M'Kee, and it was not upon that ground that Hoover was held to have the legal right to the service of the Germans. (2) An indenture of service may be assigned, so as to transfer the term, by observing the formalities prescribed by statute; but if these be not observed, the legal right does not pass. (3.) But if Hoover acquired no legal right to their service, it may possibly be said, that the consideration of his purchase has failed, and he ought not, in equity, to be compelled to pay. It should, however, be remarked, that the transfer was made of the indentures to Hoover, in the mode desired by him; and if, owing to any irregularity in that transfer, he has sustained an injury, the loss should not fall upon M'Kee. He received the indentures held by M'Kee, and accepted a re-acknowledgement of them by the Germans, after the name of M'Kee was stricken out, and his substituted. By thus accepting and causing to be altered, the indentures, Hoover has deprived M'Kee of the means either of making a legal transfer or resuscitating his right to the service of the Germans, and ought not now to be permitted in a court of equity, to throw the loss on him. *3 (3) The obligation given in consideration of an agreement to assign the term of indented servants, is not affected, because, in the attempt to make the transfer in the mode desired by the assignee, the servants were liberated. And with respect to the alleged agreement of M'Kee, to accept one-third of the amount in satisfaction of the entire amount of the note, it need only be remarked, that the allegation is denied by M'Kee, and altogether unsupported by the evidence in the cause. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and the bill dismissed, and the injunction dissolved with costs; but, under an agreement made by the parties and of record in this case, no damages are to be awarded. Sharp, attorney-general, for plaintiff; Haggin, &c., for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. McKee v. Hoover 1 T.B.Mon. 32, 17 Ky. 32, 1824 WL 1472 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
