(Cite as: 4 Bibb 403,  7 Ky. 403 (Ky.),  1816 WL 793 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Miller etc. v. Hainy. Oct. 10, 1816. *1 Specific execution of a bond for the release of the elder legal title refused, because the bond was obtained by a false representation that the conflicting elder entry was correctlysurveyed, when the obligee knew the survey of that entry was made by beginning at a distance other than that called for from the object alluded to in the entry. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 38 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400I Requisites and Validity of Contract 400k38 k. Misrepresentation and Fraud by Purchaser. Most Cited Cases A. obtained a bond from B. to convey certain land claimed by both under conflicting entries, by representing that certain entries had been correctly surveyed, when he knew that they were incorrect. Held, that the bond could not be enforced. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. HAINY obtained judgments in ejectment against the appellants, by virtue of the elder grant, which issued in his own name as assignee, upon a survey made in 1784 under an entry of the 16th of December, 1783, in the name of Smith and Hainy. To enjoin these judgments, the appellants exhibited their bill in chancery, claiming the land under two entries in the name of Edward Payne and William Calk, prior in date to that of Smith and Hainy. They allege that after the surveys were made upon all of the entries, an agreement of compromise was entered into between Hainy and Edward Payne, whereby Hainy, by his written obligation, bound himself to convey to Payne the interference, and asked of the Court a specific execution of that contract. Hainy by his answer denied the validity of the appellants' claim, admitted the execution of the obligation to Payne for a conveyance of the interference, but alleged that the agreement was procured by the fraudulent misrepresentations of Payne, and insisted that it ought not to be specifically executed. On a hearing the Court below being of opinion the appellants were not entitled to relief, made a decree dismissing their bill with costs, and from that decree they have appealed to this Court. The following are the entries under which the appellants claim: "1783, March 10th--Edward Payne and William Calk enter 3000 acres of land on three treasury warrants, beginning at the southwest corner of James French's 9000 acre entry, and 2000 poles south from a white oak marked H. at a certain lick, etc. being the beginning of Stephen French's 2000 acre entry; running thence E. 536 poles, thence S. 490 poles, thence W. 980, thence N. 490 poles, thence E. 440 poles to the beginning, including the headwaters of a large creek that runs into Licking creek above the upper salt spring, and the head waters of some of the N. E. branches of Lulbegrud, excepting prior claims," etc. "1783, March 10th--Edward Payne and William Calk enter 2235 acres, on, etc. beginning at the S. W. corner of Calk and Payne's entry of 3000 acres on the waters of Licking creek and Lulbegrud, running thence W. 423 poles, thence N. 948 poles, thence E. 423 poles, thence S. 948 poles to the beginning." *2 As these entries depend upon two others, one of which is in the name of James French, and the other in the name of Stephen French, it is proper we should notice them also. They are as follows: "25th January, 1783--Stephen French enters 2000 acres of land on treasury warrants, on the waters of a creek of the Salt Spring fork of Licking that heads opposite to the eastwardly or northwestwardly branch of Lulbegrud; beginning at a white oak marked H. standing on the bank of a buffalo lick, and on the north side of the same lick, is immediately on the north side of the creek, and a branch empties into the creek on the north side of the same in the lower edge of the lick, five or six miles (more or less) down the waters from Spencer Reed's pre-emption of 400 acres, which he has assigned to William Calk; extending thence S. 800 poles, E. 400 poles, N. 800 poles, and W. 400 poles to the beginning," etc. "25th January, 1783.--James French, assignee, etc. enters 9000 acres, etc. on the waters of the Salt Spring fork of Licking, beginning 88 poles due south from the white oak and Lick, the beginning of Stephen French's entry of 2000 acres on the waters of the Salt Spring fork, etc. extending thence south 1200 poles, east 1200 poles, north 1200 poles, and west 1200 poles to the beginning." If the appellants are entitled to relief, it must be under the agreement made between Hainy and Payne: for with respect to the entries under which they claim, they are not even alleged to be valid; and in the course of argument their right to succeed was not attempted to be maintained upon the goodness of their entries. They cannot be entitled to relief upon the agreement: for considering it (as is contended for by them) in the nature of a compromise of conflicting claims, unless it had been obtained fairly, without the suggestion of falsehood or the suppression of truth, a Court of Chancery ought not to compel its specific execution. That the agreement was procured through the false suggestions of Edward Payne and his brother John, who appears to have acted for him in the management of the claims, from the record it is impossible to doubt. The proof is conclusive, that the Paynes had a connection of the conflicting claims, and when they applied to Hainy for a surrender of his interest, alleged their entries had been correctly surveyed; and relying upon the truth of that statement after viewing the connection, Hainy gave his obligation to convey the interference. That those entries were erroneously surveyed, is perfectly clear: for the first survey was made to lie altogether north of French's southwest corner; and whatever doubts may be entertained as to the place of beginning, whether at the southwest corner or at the termination of the 2000 poles called for in the entry of Payne and Calk, it is evident upon no principle should it have been made to begin north of the southwest corner of French; and that the Paynes knew the survey should not extend further north, is not only evident from the clear expressions of the entry, but it is moreover manifest from Payne having previously surveyed it differently, and by his making the certificate of survey upon which the patent issued purport to begin at the southwest corner of French. *3 But it is contended that whether the entries of Payne and Calk had been correctly surveyed, is matter of law, about which men may honestly differ; and as such a mistaken representation ought not to prevent a Court of Equity from decreeing a specific execution. To this it may be answered, that the allegation proven to have been made by the Paynes, that the entries were correctly surveyed, involved both facts and law. It involved the fact of the survey of the 3000 acre entry having been made to begin at the southwest corner of French's 9000 acre entry, and to lie north thereof, whereas in truth and fact the survey did not begin at that corner, and lies altogether south thereof. Whether, therefore, a false statement in point of law exclusively, would or would not furnish a good cause to resist the specific execution of a contract, we have no hesitation in declaring that under the circumstances of the present case the agreement between Hainy and Payne ought not to be enforced. As respects Hainy, therefore, the appellants' bill was properly dismissed. But it is contended that they should have had a decree against Payne's heirs, upon the purchase from their ancestors. We do not, however, suppose they have shown any cause for relief against the heirs. They appear to have purchased Payne's claim upon Hainy only, and there are no suggestions of any fraud having been practiced by Payne upon them in the sale. Decree affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Miller v. Hainy 4 Bibb 403, 7 Ky. 403, 1816 WL 793 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
