(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 4,  17 Ky. 4 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1460 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Commissioners of the Farmers and Mechanics' Bank of Shelbyville. v. W. & R. Jarvis. Oct. 5, 1824. *1 Private Statutes, Constitutional Law, Preamble. ERROR TO THE SHELBY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 1104(7) 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101III Incorporation and Organization 101III(A) In General 101k1102 Constitutional and Statutory Provisions 101k1104 Special Charters or  Acts 101k1104(7) k. Amendment or repeal. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k38) The charter of any corporate body may be altered, in its most essential features, by the legislature, if the alteration be agreed to either before or after the passage of the statute making the alterations. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This was a petition and summons brought in the circuit court by Mark Hardin, Fielding Winlock and Samuel Tevis, as commissioners appointed to settle and close the business of the Farmers and Mechanics' Bank of Shelbyville, upon a note executed by W. & R. Jarvis, the first of July, 1819, to Benjamin F. Gore, for six hundred dollars, payable in the said bank sixty days after date. The note was endorsed by Gore to the president and directors of the bank, and the suit was brought by Hardin, Winlock and Tevis, under the authority of an act of the legislature, approved 21st December, 1821. Sessions Acts, 1820, page 403. That act, after appointing Winlock, Hardin and Tevis commissioners for the purpose of settling and closing as soon as practicable the business of the bank, provides, that "all the estate, real and personal, and all choses in action, to which the president, directors and company of said bank are entitled, shall be and the same are hereby vested in said commissioners;" and further authorized the said commissioners to sue and be sued in the character as commissioners. The defendants demurred to the petition, which was drawn in the usual form, and the circuit court rendered judgment sustaining the demurrer. (1.) If, in the passage of the act to which we have referred, the legislature has not transcended its constitutional limits, there can be little doubt but the court erred in sustaining the demurrer; for in language not to be misunderstood, not only the right to all choses in action belonging to the bank, is vested in the plaintiffs by the act, but in their character of commissioners, they are expressly authorized to sue and be sued, and it is in that character the present suit is prosecuted. It is true the petition contains no averment either of the appointment of the plaintiffs as commissioners, or of their right to sue for the debts owing to the bank, nor would the forms of such an action allow of averments of that sort; but we apprehend no such averments are necessary to show the plaintiffs' right of suit. They were appointed commissioners and derived their right to sue by an act of the legislature, and whatever is enacted by that body, it is incumbent on the court ex officio to know, without its being specially averred in pleading. (1) It is not necessary to aver a private statute giving the authority to sue; the court is ex officio bound to know whatever is enacted by the legislature; therefore, a petition and summons may lie in such case. *2 (2.) But in argument, the power of the legislature to confer upon the plaintiffs a right of action which previously existed in the corporation, was contested, and in support of the position taken in argument, we were referred to the 12th section of the 10th article of the constitution of this state, where it is declared, that no man's property shall be taken without the consent of his representatives, and without just compensation being previously made to him. (2) A statute vesting the rights of action of a corporation in commissioners, which appears from its preamble to have been passed at the instance of the stockholders, is constitutional; for that is evidence of their consent. In deciding the present case, it is not, however, necessary that we should go into a minute examination of the import of this section of the constitution. It is sufficient to remark, that according to no fair interpretation can it be admitted to form any restriction on the power of the legislature to enact the act under which the right of the plaintiffs is derived. The act appears from its preamble, to have been procured at the special instance of the stockholders of the corporation, and of course, the consent of the stockholders must be understood to have been given to its passage. The act can not, therefore, have deprived others of any right without their consent, and is not in conflict with the section cited from the constitution. The demurrer ought not, therefore, to have been sustained, and, consequently, the judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Haggin, Logan, &c., for plaintiffs; Sharp, attorneygeneral, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Commissioners of Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank v. Jarvis 1 T.B.Mon. 4, 17 Ky. 4, 1824 WL 1460 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
