(Cite as: 4 Bibb 326,  7 Ky. 326 (Ky.),  1816 WL 747 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Dowell, executor, etc. v. Burton and wife. Apr. 19, 1816. *1 A legacy of 100 pounds given by the testator in 1781, settled according to the scale of depreciation at the date of the will. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 566 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(D) Description of Property 409k566 k. Money. Most Cited Cases A. bequeathed to B. L100. Held not a specie bequest, but a legacy of L100 in the current money of the country at the date of the will. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was a suit brought in the Court below by the appellees to recover a legacy bequeathed to Mrs. Burton by the will of Andrew Wallace, deceased. The will bears date in 1779, and appears to have been admitted to record in 1781; and contains a bequest to Mrs. Burton, who at that time was Martha Gilmore, of "one hundred pounds, good and lawful money, to be let to interest until she comes of age." Both at the date of the will and when it was admitted to probate, the current money of the State of Virginia had depreciated considerably in value, and the main points of inquiry involved in the determination of this cause grow out the construction of the bequest. Whether the one hundred pounds should be denominated a bequest for that much in specie, or the current money of the country; and if the latter, whether its value should be ascertained according to the scale of depreciation when the will was made, or at the decease of the testator, are the principal questions for considration. We are of opinion that by no fair rule of interpretation can the will be construed into a specie bequest. The current money of the country would clearly satisfy the words of the testator, and as a depreciation in the value of the current coin must be presumed to have been known to him when the will was drawn, it is fair to presume that when he used such words he must have intended the legacy to be paid in the current money. The circumstance of the legacy, if so payable, and when reduced by the sale of depreciation, amounting to but an inconsiderable sum, cannot, as seems to have been supposed by the Court below, affect the construction; for although it would be a small sum for the testator to require to be put out upon interest, his having so directed it is not at all strange, when it is perceived that in other parts of his will he has bequeathed legacies of much less value; and beside, if it be considered a specie legacy, it is moreover apparent his estate was inadequate to satisfy all of his bequests. With respect to the time when the value of the legacy should be ascertained, we suppose it should be according to the scale of depreciation at the date of the will, and not at the decease of the testator. The statute of 1781, regulating the scale by which the value in this case must be determined, seems to have gone upon the idea of regulating the sum to be paid according to the value of the currency when the contract might be entered into; and although that statute may not expressly embrace the case of a legacy, yet in furtherance of the same idea, especially as it accords with what we suppose to have most probably been the intention of the testator, we apprehend the value of the legacy should be sealed as at the date of the will. *2 With respect to interest, as the testator expressly required his executor to put the legacy out at interest, there can be no objection to the decree of the Court below in requiring it to be paid. Decree reversed, etc. Ky.App. 1816. McDowell v. Burton 4 Bibb 326, 7 Ky. 326, 1816 WL 747 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
