(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 81,  10 Ky. 81 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1164 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. J. K. Smith v. James Morrison. Dec. 4, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO RE3/8ERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 91 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(G) Surprise, Accident, Inadvertence, or Mistake 275k91 k. Inadvertence or Mistake of Party or Counsel. Most  Cited Cases A new trial ought not to be granted on account of the neglect of the agent or attorney of the party applying for it. New Trial 275 k 96 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(G) Surprise, Accident, Inadvertence, or Mistake 275k96 k. Diligence in Averting Consequences. Most Cited  Cases Surprise as to the cause of action cannot be alleged as a ground for a new trial, if the declaration and exhibits give notice. New Trial 275 k 147 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k146 Affidavits as to Surprise, Accident, or Mistake 275k147 k. Necessity and Sufficiency in General. Most Cited  Cases A party, moving for a new trial on the ground of surprise, must prove the surprise and that he was injured thereby, as well as show how he can avoid it. Trial 388 k 114 388 Trial 388V Arguments and Conduct of Counsel 388k113 Statements as to Facts, Comments, and Arguments 388k114 k. In General. Most Cited Cases Counsel should not be permitted to discuss before the jury any points upon which the court had decided. Account Stated 11 k 8 11 Account Stated 11k8 k. Conclusiveness. Most Cited Cases Where, on settlement of accounts, a note is given for a portion thereof, the merger of the accounts in the note does not extend to any portion of the accounts between the parties which was not settled by them. Contracts 95 k 245(2) 95 Contracts 95III Modification and Merger 95k245 Merger in Subsequent Contract 95k245(2) k. Subsequent Contract of Higher Nature. Most Cited  Cases A written instrument, merely recognizing a debt, providing the manner of its liquidation, and adjusting the balance, is no merger. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a judgment for forty-five thousand seven hundred and seventy-four dollars and ninety cents, rendered against John K. Smith, in an action brought by Morrison in the circuit court of Fayette. The action was brought against J. K. Smith and Alexander Smith, surviving partners of the firm, late trading and merchandizing under the name and style of Smiths and Morrison. The declaration contains various counts; but they all contain, in substance, a charge against the firm, for fifty thousand dollars owing to Morrison for money advanced, laid out and expended, money had and received, and certain bills of exchange, whisky, powder, beef, pork, yarns, cordage, soap, candles, lard and sail canvass, sold by Morrison to them, at their special instance and request. *2 The writ was executed upon J. K. Smith, and as to Alexander Smith returned by the sheriff, no inhabitant. Upon this return, the action was abated as to Alexander Smith, and the trial had against J. K. Smith on the general issue, and a verdict found against him for the amount of the judgment rendered by the court. The assignment of errors first question the propriety of proceeding to trial, and rendering judgment against J. K. Smith, after the action was abated as to Alexander Smith. On the return of no "inhabitant" as to one defendant a plaintiff may abate as to him, and proceed against another defendant who has been served with process. The propriety of this proceeding and rendering judgment, was maintained by the decision of this court, at the last term, in the case of Weister against Sneed, in all respects precisely analogous to the present case; and, upon the authority of that case, the objection now taken here can not be sustained. On the trial of the issue in the circuit court, after Morrison had introduced evidence conducing to establish his demand, the counsel for Smith produced and read a written document, purporting to be a summary of Messrs. Smiths and Morrison's accounts, and containing various items, and concluding with a balance in favor of Morrison of $7,300.01. At the bottom of this account, and attached thereto, is the following memorandum, viz: "Upon the above statement of the account of Smiths and Morrison, there appears to be due James Morrison, Esq. seven thousand three hundred dollars and one cent, which balance is disputed by J. K. Smith. It is therefore agreed, on the part of J. K. Smith and James Morrison, that after Smith's arrival at New Orleans, he will arrange and make out the account, as well as his account against James Morrison, jun., as contractor's agent, and upon those accounts being adjusted to the mutual satisfaction of the parties, that we will settle and pay the balance which may appear to be due from either. Signed the 18th April, 1814, by James Morrison and J. K. Smith." And after proving this memorandum to have been executed by the parties thereto, on the day it bears date, the counsel for Smith moved the court to instruct the jury, that as the evidence introduced by the plaintiff, Morrison, went to prove the assumpsit upon which he relied prior to the date of the memorandum, he could not maintain his action, but should proceed by action of covenant, or otherwise, upon the agreement contained in the aforesaid memorandum--the court, however, being of opinion that the original assumpsit was not merged in the written memorandum, overruled the motion, and exceptions were taken to the opinion of the court and the account and memorandum made part of the record. Whether, therefore, the court decided correctly in refusing the instrucions asked, is the next question to which the attention of this court is drawn by the assignment of errors. A sealed promise to pay a debt, merges the simple contract, and so also does a written promise, though unsealed, but the mere recognition of a debt and provision as to the mode of liquidation and adjusting the balance, (whether sealed or not) is no merger. *3 It will be perceived that the memorandum is not sealed by the parties; but as it was executed since the passage of the act placing writings not sealed upon the same footing of sealed instruments, it must be entitled to the same force and effect, and be entitled to the same consideration, in the present contest, as though it were sealed. Thus considering it, however, we entertain no doubt but the circuit court decided correctly. That a security under seal extinguishes a simple contract debt,is a proposition about which there can be no difference of opinion. It extinguishes the simple contract because, by being sealed, it is supposed to have been made with more deliberation, and assumes, in contemplation of law, a higher nature. But this effect has never been attributed to sealed instruments which merely recognizes the existence of a debt, and provides a mode to ascertain its amount and liquidation, as was held by the supreme court of the United States, 7 Cranch, 303. Much less should the memorandum in question have that effect, for it imports nothing more than an attempt at settlement, leaving the parties, thereafter, at full liberty to adjust their accounts, and when done to the mutual satisfaction of both, a settlement was again to be made, and the balance which might be found due from either, to be paid the other. But if it could be construed an extinguishment of that part of Morrison's demand, about which the settlement was attempted, it is obvious that it can not entirely defeat Morrison's action; for it is plain, as was decided by the circuit court, from the suggestions attached to part of the items contained in the account, taken in connection with the language implied in the memorandum, that the demands of Morrison against Smith, as contractor's agent, were not then taken into account; and a great part of the demand sought to be recovered in the present action, and to establish which, evidence was introduced by Morrison, consists of claims against Smith, &c., as contractor's agents. A merger extends only to that portion of the accounts of the parties which was settled by them. In the further progress of the cause, and after the evidence was gone through on both sides, and whilst the counsel for Smith, in his argument to the jury, was commenting on the settlement exhibited in evidence by Smith, he was stopped by the court, and precluded from urging any thing which might tend to contravene the opinion previously expressed by the court, as to the construction and import of the settlement. Counsel should not be permitted to discuss before the jury any points upon which the court had decided. In thus restraining the counsel, we are of opinion the court acted perfectly correct. After having obtained from the court an opinion on the legal import of the settlement, a decent regard for that opinion would seem to forbid the same matter from being again canvassed before the jury. And it was certainly a respect which the court owed to itself, and essential to the speedy administration of justice, not to permit the same matter, which had been decided by it, to be again discussed before the jury. If the decision of the court had been incorrect, the point was reserved by the exceptions taken to that opinion; and if correct, the defendant can have sustained no injury by being restrained from controverting its correctness before the jury. *4 After the jury had found their verdict against Smith, his counsel moved the court for a new trial; but his motion was overruled, and by exceptions taken to the court's refusal, the evidence given on the trial was spread upon the record. It remains, therefore, only to decide whether a new trial ought to have been awarded. In reviewing the decision of the court in overruling the motion for a new trial, the only points worthy of consideration involve an inquiry into the sufficiency of the evidence to support the verdict, and into the ground of surprise urged as a cause for setting aside the verdict. There can not be a doubt, but that the evidence introduced by Morrison fully justifies the finding of the jury, unless its operation is so far impaired by the settlement of 1814, noticed in the former part of this opinion, as to authorize a credit in favor of Smith for two items contained in that account, one for $29,785.30, and the other for $4,677.64, and for which it is urged, by the verdict of the jury he has obtained no credit. Those items are credited to Smith on that account, and it is contended should be considered to have been admitted just by the settlement then made, and as the account, introduced by Morrison on the trial, and which makes a balance against Smith for the precise amount found by the jury, contains no such items of credit; and as the witness, by whom that account was made out, proves no such credit to have been therein given, it is urged the verdict is contrary to evidence. It should be observed, however, that by the account of 1814, those credits appear to have been given on account of James Morrison, jr. one of the firm of Smith & Co.; and it is proven that since then, and in the account used on the trial, Morrison has given to the firm, on account of James Morrison, jr., a credit of $62,532.93. This latter credit, therefore, as it is for a greater amount we suppose should be construed to include the items of credit claimed by Smith--at least, it is sufficient to throw upon him, the burthen of other proof than that of the settlement of 1814, to entitle him to the additional and further credit of those items; and in the present case there is no such evidence. And with respect to the ground of surprise, no reason is perceived for dis urbing the verdict of the jury. By the affidavit of the attorney for Smith, he states, that he came into the cause as the successor of M'Kinley, who was employed by Smith to defend the cause; that M'Kinley informed him there were deposited in the Bank of Kentucky, for safe keeping, a written document evidencing a settlement or adjustment of the accounts between the parties; and left with him surdry memorandums and receipts, by which it appears, that John K. Smith had advanced to James, Morrison, jr., in his separate capacity as contractor's agent, a large sum of money, and to one Brounson, a sub-agent for said Morrison, jr., other large sums, and to one Hervey, clerk to said Morrison, in the whole amounting to $7,888 and 80 cents, but for the want of testimony to prove the liability of the plaintiff, Morrison, and the signature to the receipts, the same were not offered at the trial--and that from said statements and information, he supposed that on the trial of the cause no account could, or would, be produced, relative to transactions prior to the date of the settlement, and was altogether unprepared to contest or investigate the accounts produced at the trial, and that the cause assumed a shape totally different from what he had expected, &c. *5 It is upon this affidavit that the motion for a new trial is attempted to be sustained on the ground of surprise. We are totally at a loss to perceive, however, any foundation for the application on that ground. We are not informed by any thing contained in the affidavit, that even with the information they now possess, either the attorney or Smith could, on another trial, be prepared with any evidence calculated to produce a verdict more favorable to Smith. We are told, that owing to the want of evidence to prove the memorandums and receipts, left by M'Kinley with the attorney, &c., they were not offered in evidence on the trial; but there is no suggestion that Smith would ever be able to procure evidence to prove those memorandums and receipts. But supposing them to be susceptible of proof, it was certainly incumbent upon Smith to have exercised proper diligence in attempting to procure the evidence on the trial, and his failure to do so, must be attributed to his own laches, and forms no ground for any thing like surprise on the trial. On a motion for a new trial on account of surprise, the affidavit should not only detail the ground on which the surprise is supposed to exist, but should also state the probability that such evidence will be produced on the second trial as will effect a more favorable result. A new trial on the ground of surprise should not be granted if the surprise was produced by the laches of the party. It is true, we are informed by the affidavit, that the attorney supposed no account could or would be produced prior in date to the settlement deposited in the bank for safe keeping; whereas, on the trial, Morrison introduced an account in relation to transactions long prior in date, and, in so doing, made the cause assume a different shape to what was expected by the attorney. But that opinion of the attorney is not alleged to have been superinduced by the conduct of Morrison, but to the contrary, if the attorney had adverted to the declaration, he might readily have perceived that Morrison's action was not founded on the settlement deposited in the bank, but was brought for the purpose of recovering upon the original transaction between the parties. But if, after looking into the declaration, he could have entertained any doubt as to the demand upon which Morrison was seeking a recovery, he might, by adverting to the settlement, have known that it could neither form the foundation of an action, or preclude Morrison from suing on the original accounts. But if, after adverting to the declaration and settlement, the attorney could have still doubted as to the demand sought to be recovered by Morrison, he might, by consulting his client, Smith, have obtained ample information in relation to the transactions between the parties. After all these means of information, it is evidently inadmissible for the attorney to ask for a new trial on the grounds made out for surprise--especially, too, when the application is not ??ven accompanied with any suggestion of the ability of his client to introduce any evidence on another trial, which was not before produced. *6 Surprise as to the cause of action can not be urged if the declaration and exhibits give notice. Upon the whole we think the new trial ought not to be awarded; and that the judgment must be affirmed with costs. Bibb, for plaintiff; Crittenden, Hardin, Wickliffe and Haggin, contra. Ky.App. 1820. Smith v. Morrison 3 A.K.Marsh. 81, 10 Ky. 81, 1820 WL 1164 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
