(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 152,  17 Ky. 152 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1516 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Young v. Davis. Oct. 19, 1824. *1 Injunctions, Executions, Reinstatement of Injunctions, Restitution. APPEAL FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 72 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k71 Leave of Court 161k72 k. In general. Most Cited Cases Where the collection of a judgment at law has been enjoined in chancery, an execution may issue on such judgment as soon as the injunction is dissolved, and leave of court for its issuance is not required. Judgment 228 k 469 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(B) Jurisdiction and Proceedings 228k469 k. Operation and effect of injunction. Most Cited  Cases Where an injunction to a judgment in ejectment was dissolved, and the execution creditor proceeded under the execution, a reinstatement of the injunction does not render the proceedings at law irregular by relation back, nor entitle the party who had been dispossessed in the meantime to a writ of restitution. Ejectment 142 k 122 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k122 k. Restitution. Most Cited Cases An injunction against a judgment in ejection was dissolved, but after execution had issued thereon, the injunction was reinstated.  Held, that where it appeared that complainant obtained possession by collusion with the tenant against whom the ejectment had been brought, and obtained the reinstatement by presenting to the judge an incorrect transcript of the record, he was not entitled to restitution. Ejectment 142 k 122 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k122 k. Restitution. Most Cited Cases If an injunction against a judgment in ejectment is dissolved, and, after execution issued thereon, is afterwards reinstated by an order of the judge acting in the capacity of chancellor, it does not render the proceeding at law irregular by relation, nor require the court below to award a writ of restitution to the party who has been dispossessed in the meantime. Injunction 212 k 1639 212 Injunction 212V Actions and Proceedings 212V(I) Continuing, Modifying, or Terminating 212k1628 Motions and Proceedings 212k1639 k. Reinstatement or revival. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 212k183) The order of a judge of the court of appeals reinstating an injunction does not relate back, so as to invalidate the ad interim proceedings. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. To stay proceedings under a judgment which Davis had recovered in an action of ejectment, Young, who was possessed of the land, exhibited his bill in equity, in the Montgomery circuit court, and obtained an injunction. *2 The injunction was awarded at the September term, 1821, and at a special chancery term, held in September, 1822, an order was made discharging the injunction; and on the same day, and without any application having been made to the court, Davis caused to be issued from the clerk's office, a writ of habere facias possessionem upon his judgment, and the same having come to the hands of the sheriff was executed by expelling Young from the land, and delivering the possession thereof to Davis. After this, Davis applied to one of the judges of this court, and before the expiration of the chancery term at which the injunction was discharged, obtained his order reinstating the injunction. In this state of things, Young applied to the court at its March term, 1823, for a writ of restitution, to be restored to the possession of the land; but his application was overruled and the writ refused. Whether or not the court was correct in refusing to award the writ is the sole question to be decided in the present controversy. (1.) It is perfectly clear, that in obtaining the possession of the land, Davis acted in strict conformity to legal principles, and not in any manner repugnant to the orders of the court of equity. After an injunction had been obtained, he delayed proceeding under his judgment, until the injunction was dissolved, and then, as he had a right to do, he immediately caused the writ of habere facias possessionem to issue, and through the aid of the sheriff, to whom it was directed, obtained the possession of the land adjudged to him on the trial of the ejectment. He did not, it is true, delay until leave was obtained from the court to sue out the writ of possession, nor do we suppose it was necessary that he should have done so. If he had been about to cause an execution to issue upon the order or decree of the court of chancery before the term had elapsed, it would, no doubt, have been necessary to have obtained the permission of the court. But it was not upon any order or decree of the court, that his writ of execution issued. He had previously recovered a judgment at law, and having been enjoined by the order of the court of chancery, from proceeding upon his judgment he was unquestionably entitled to sue out a writ of possession upon that judgment, immediately after the injunction was discharged, without further application to the court for that purpose. (1) Execution may issue on a judgment at law, enjoined in chancery, the moment the injunction is discharged or dissolved, without leave of the court. (2.) But after the possession was delivered by the sheriff, under the writ of habere facias possessionem, and during the same term, the injunction appears to have been reinstated by an order of one of the judges of this court, and hence it is contended, that by relation, the order reinstating the injunction must be understood to have vitiated the proceedings had under the judgment at law, after the injunction had been discharged by the court of equity. It should, however, be recollected, that the order reinstating the injunction was an act of the judge in the capacity of chancellor, and, of course, can not have the effect of rendering the proceedings at law irregular, by relation. *3 (2) Order of a judge of this court, reinstating an injunction, does not relate back, and render an execution issued in the interim, irregular. (3.) The proceedings which were had by Davis under his judgment at law, being, therefore, in conformity to the rules of law, the order of the judge, subsequently made, reinstating the injunction, can not have imperatively required of the court below, to award restitution to Young. (3) The reinstatement of an injunction to a judgment in ejectment, by an order of a judge of this court, does not imperiously require of the court below to award a writ of restitution to the party who had been dispossessed in the mean time. (4.) If entitled to any consideration, that order, at most, could only have the effect of imposing upon the court the necessity of looking into the accompanying circumstances, and either award or withhold the writ of restitution, as might be most consistent with the principles of equity and the justice of the case. And considered in that point of view, there will be no difficulty in sustaining the decision of the court below; for it is abundantly proved, that Young not only obtained the possession of the land by collusion with the person against whom the ejectment was brought by Davis, after that suit was commenced, but, moreover, after the injunction was dissolved by the court of equity, he is proved to have obtained the order reinstating the injunction, by procuring to be incorporated in the transcript of the record presented to the judge, title papers which were not in the cause when the injunction was dissolved by the court. (4) Where it appears that the complainant had obtained possession by collusion with the tenant against whom the ejectment had been brought, and obtained the reinstatement of the in-injunction by procuring an incorrect transcript, restitution is properly refused. Under these circumstances, Young surely has no just claim upon the equity of the court, and, consequently, was correctly decided by the court below, not to be entitled to restitution. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Bibb, for appellant; Triplett & Wickliffe for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Young v. Davis 1 T.B.Mon. 152, 17 Ky. 152, 1824 WL 1516 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
