(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 236,  20 Ky. 236 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1410 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Stone, &c. v. Ramsey. Apr. 3, 1827. *1 Fraud. Mistake. Currency. Parol Evidence. Subscribing Witnesses. Confessions. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEO. SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Fraud 184 k 31 184 Fraud 184II Actions 184II(A) Rights of Action and Defenses 184k31 k. Nature and Form of Remedy. Most Cited  Cases Equity will not decree compensation to a purchaser of personal property for fraud in the sale, where he has retained possession of the property, and not offered to restore it on discovering the fraud;  the remedy is at law, equity taking cognizance of such cases merely for the purpose of cancelling the contract and placing the parties in statu quo. Evidence 157 k 433(6) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(B) Invalidating Written Instrument 157k433 Mistake 157k433(6) k. Contracts in General. Most Cited  Cases The rule that parol testimony is inadmissible to contradict a written contract does not apply, where the contract was the result of mutual mistake. Evidence 157 k 434(8) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(B) Invalidating Written Instrument 157k434 Fraud 157k434(8) k. In Contracts in General. Most Cited  Cases Parol evidence is admissible to show fraud and deceit in the inception or execution of a contract. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. On the 22d of October, 1822, Richard Ramsey and Jesse Donoho, by a writing sealed and delivered, bound themselves to pay John Broaddus four hundred dollars in current money, on or before the 25th day of December, 1823. Covenant in question for current money. The obligation was afterwards assigned by Broaddus to William and Samuel Stone, who brought suit thereon, and recovered judgment at law against Ramsey and Donoho. Assignment and judgment. Ramsey then exhibited his bill in equity, with injunction against the Stones and Broaddus, in which he charges that the obligation was executed by him, and Donoho as his security, for the price of a wagon and horses, purchased by him of Broaddus, and that the price was agreed to be paid in paper, of the Bank of the Commonwealth but through fraud or mistake, the obligation was drawn for current money. Allegation in the bill of fraud or mistake in drawing the covenant for current money instead of currency. The bill also alleges unsoundness in some of the horses, at the time of the purchase; and charges Broaddus with fraudulently concealing the unsoundness, and misrepresenting the same to Ramsey. As to the consideration. The Stones and Broaddus each answered; the former professing to know nothing of the contract between the latter and Ramsey, and putting Ramsey upon the proof of the allegations contained in his bill, and the latter expressly denying all the matters of equity set up, and requiring proof thereof. *2 Answers. The court below was not of opinion that Ramsey was entitled to relief on the ground of fraud in relation to the unsoundness of the horses, but was of opinion, that by the contract between the parties, the price of the wagon and horses was to be paid in paper of the Bank of the Commonwealth, and decreed a perpetual injunction against the judgment at law, for two hundred dollars and interest, it being proved that one dollar in silver, at the time the obligation became payable, was worth two dollars of the paper of the bank. Decree of the circuit court. The court was no doubt correct in supposing that Ramsey was not entitled to relief, upon the score of the alleged unsoundness of the horses. The evidence is by no means satisfactory to prove that any fraud was committed by Broaddus, in either concealing or misrepresenting any defect or unsoundness of either of the horses. But were the evidence upon that subject conclusive as to the commission of an actual fraud by Broaddus, still it would have been necessary, before relief could be decreed by a court of equity, that Ramsey should appear to have abandoned the contract recently after discovering the fraud, and offered to restore the property purchased and not as he seems to have done, kept the property, and applied it to his own use and benefit. Though there may have been no offer by Ramsey to restore the property, he ought, undoubtedly to have redress, if in point of fact, fraud was practiced upon him, in the sale by Broaddus, but he should in that case seek redress in the ordinary course of law and not have applied to a court of equity whose province is not to take cognizance of questions of fraud for the purpose of estimating the injury done, and decreeing a compensation, but for the purpose of cancelling the contract, and placing the parties in statu quo. Equity will not give compensation for the fraud in the sale of personal property held on to by the purchaser, where there is remedy at law____ --But in a proper case, will cancel the contract. But with respect to the ground upon which the court denied relief to Ramsey, we differ essentially from that court. By reducing their contract to writing, the parties have mutually substituted the most certain, permament and best evidence of their agreement, and they must be understood thereby to have agreed to abide by that superior evidence, in preference to the uncertain and frail recollection of witnesses. Adverting to the writing, therefore, as the true expositor of the contract, it is perfectly clear that the price which Ramsey contracted to pay for the wagon and horses, was four hundred dollars in current money, and not in paper of the Bank of the Commonwealth. In reducing a contract to writing, the parties agree to abide by that as the most certain evidence. We have not forgotten that it is charged by Ramsey in his bill, that the writing was drawn as it is, through fraud or mistake, and whether it was so drawn or not, we admit, is a question of fact, which from its nature must necessarily depend upon extraneous evidence. But we are not of opinion that the record contains sufficient evidence to establish either fraud or mistake, in the drawing of the writing. *3 Fraud or mistake in writing a contract may be proved by extraneous evidence. There is to the writing a subscribing witness, who from the circumstance of his having been selected by the parties to attest the writing, must be presumed to know more of the transaction than any other, and whose testimony would, therefore, have been more satisfactory as to the facts which attended the execution of the writing, than the evidence of a stranger; but instead of taking the deposition of the subscribing witness, and without assigning any reason for the failure, Ramsey has thought proper to rest his case upon the testimony of two other witnesses, neither of whom were present at the execution of the writing, and both of whom state that they know nothing about the contract, except what they have since learned in conversation with Broaddus. Subscribing witness--his testimony preferred. One of these witnesses states that he was in company with Broaddus, Ramsey and others, after the obligation was given by Ramsey to Broaddus, and when Adam Rogers was about executing a note to Ramsey, at which time a note calling for current money was presented to Rogers, but he refused to sign it, saying that he could write a note that would conform better to their contract. Ramsey remarked that it was the same sort of a note that he had given to Broaddus for the wagon, &c., and Broaddus replied that it was written in the same way, and said he would take no advantage of the manner the note was drawn; but the contract between him and Ramsey was Commonwealth's paper, and all he wanted was to have the money made as good as it was when they traded. The other witness states that he was present at the time mentioned, and heard Broaddus say that the note presented to Rogers for his signature, was written like that given to him by Ramsey, but that Broaddus said it should make no difference, he wanted no advantage. The witness further stated that he heard nothing said about specie in the conversation. Evidence of the party's confessions, offered to prove fraud or mistake-- This is the only testimony in the cause, conducing in the slightest degree to support the allegations of the bill, and is, in our opinion, altogether insufficient to warrant the decree of the court below. --Held insufficient. The evidence is not only presented to us under the suspicious circumstance of coming from strangers, when there is a subscribing witness to the writing, whose evidence might, from any thing contained in the record, have been obtained, but it moreover consists entirely, in what the witnesses state they have heard Broaddus say since the contract, a species of evidence, which of all others, should be weighed with the greatest caution; and not only so, but whilst the witnesses concur in stating what is sufficient to show that Ramsey must have known the contents of the writing when it was executed, there is a discrepancy in their testimony as to some of the statements which they relate to have been made by Broaddus. *4 Confessions of the party to be weighed with caution. Evidence of this sort presented under these circumstances can not be admitted sufficient, in opposition to the express denial of the answer, to fix upon the defendant Broaddus the charge of fraud in drawing the writing, and is totally insufficient to establish any thing like a mistake in the parties. The decree must, consequently, be reversed, with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and th bill dismissed with costs and damages. Turner, for appellants; Caperton, for appellees. Ky.App. 1827. Stone v. Ramsey 4 T.B.Mon. 236, 20 Ky. 236, 1827 WL 1410 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
