(Cite as: 4 Bibb 253,  7 Ky. 253 (Ky.),  1815 WL 757 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cosby v. Slaughters. Nov. 16, 1815. *1 S conveyed a tract of land to his son F; after the death of the father, two of the other sons obligated themselves to pay F for all the land that he should lose out of the tract so conveyed to him. This obligation was assigned to C, who brought his bill alleging that the father had no title; that J, in whom the title was, had by some means obtained possession of the land, wherefore the complainant is unable to show the loss of the land; and therefore prays that the obligors may be made answerable on their undertaking. Resolved, that as no loss was alleged, which would authorize a recovery at law on the obligation, a Court of Equity will not aid to charge the obligors on their collateral undertaking. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases A. conveyed to his son B. 200 acres. After the decease of A., C. and D. gave their obligation to their brother B. to pay him for all the land he might lose out of said 200 acres.  B. assigned this obligation to E., who brought his bill, alleging that one F., having the legal title to 30 acres of said land, had obtained possession of it, but that he (E.) was unable at law to show the loss thereof.  Held that, if there had been a breach of the bond, E.'s remedy was at law and that, as he had alleged no equitable grounds for relief, the bill should be dismissed. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. CADWALADER SLAUGHTER, in June, 1791, by a deed with a clause of special warranty against him and his heirs, conveyed to his son Francis two hundred acres of land in Jefferson county. Some doubt having arisen as to the goodness of the title to part of the land, after the decease of the father, by an agreement between the said Francis and his brothers, Presley and Edward Slaughter, the latter two executed an obligation binding themselves to pay the former for all the land he might lose out of the tract conveyed to him by his father as aforesaid, three pounds per acre. Subsequent to this, Francis assigned the obligation given by his brothers to the appellant, Cosby, who exhibited this bill in equity against the appellees, alleging Cad??walader, the father, when he conveyed to Francis, had no title to about thirty acres, part of the tract, and that owing to a certain James Sullivan, to whom he alleges the title to be, having by some means obtained the possession, he is unable by any legal means to evince the loss thereof, whereby to charge the appellees under their obligation in an action at law; and asks the Court to give him relief in equity. The answer of the appellees admits the execution of the obligation to their brother, but denies they were under any legal or moral obligation to do so; and contends that as they are not liable at law, they ought not to be charged in equity. *2 The application of the appellant to a Court of Equity is predicated upon the supposition that no breach of the obligation given by the appellees has taken place: for if there has been a breach, as that would form exclusively the subject of an action at law, that remedy, and not a suit in chancery, should have been resorted to for the purpose of obtaining relief. Assuming, then, that there has been no breach of the obligation, we have no hesitation in affirming that the appellant has totally failed to manifest any right to relief in equity. As the object of the appellant's bill is to charge the appellees beyond what they would be at law, if relief is given it must be on account of some equitable liability resulting from circumstances extraneous to the stipulations of the obligation given by them. No such obligation is, however, shown to arise in the present case. It cannot arise from the consideration upon which the obligation was given for the appellees deny any consideration to have been received, and none is proven by the evidence in the cause. It cannot arise from any liability which they are shown to be under as the devisees of their deceased father; because the father (although a defect of title in part of the land is admitted) is not even by the charges in the bill shown to have been accountable for the deficiency. He was certainly not accountable under his conveyance, inasmuch as it contains no warranty which can embrace such a case; and the bill contains no suggestions by which he can have been accountable on the score of fraud. As, therefore, the appellant has altogether failed to manifest any equitable right against the appellees the Court below properly dismissed his bill. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Cosby v. Slaughters 4 Bibb 253, 7 Ky. 253, 1815 WL 757 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
