(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 211,  8 Ky. 211 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1316 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Henry Dixon, v. Leander Sharp et al. Jun. 2, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE WARREN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 228 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k228 k. Persons Who May Purchase. Most Cited  Cases As the statute subjecting lands on sale under execution prohibits the sheriff selling the same from bidding for or buying the land, a sale on a bid made by a sheriff, as he then proclaimed, for a third person, on the land, was void. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The suit was brought in chancery by Dixon, for the purpose of compelling Sharp to surrender the legal title which he had obtained to the land in contest, through an assignment made by Collins, of a certificate of survey. The right of Dixon to the land before the assignment was made, is not disputed; but Sharp contests his right to relief upon the ground of his having purchased the land at a sale made by Collins, under a fieri facias, to satisfy a judgment against Dixon. Sharp is admitted not to have been present at the sale, but the land is proven to have been exposed to sale; and upon a bid made by Collins, the sheriff, as he then proclaimed for Sharp, the land was stricken off. The purchase under which Sharp holds the land, having been thus made through the agency of the sheriff who sold the land, we are of opinion ought not to be sustained. For as the act subjecting lands to sale for the payment of debt expressly interdicts the sheriff who sells, from bidding for or buying the land, according to the letter and policy of the act, the sheriff ought not, either for himself or any other be allowed to be bid for the land. A sale of lands under execution on the bid of the sheriff conducting the sale is void, even though the sheriff bid as the agent of another. Because, therefore, the purchase through which Sharp holds the land, was made through the sheriff's bid, upon his being reimbursed the purchase money and those sums which he may have expended in obtaining the grant from the commonwealth, Sharp ought to be compelled to surrender to the appellant the title. The decree of the court below must consequently be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and such decrees and orders there made as may be necessary and proper, consistent with this opinion. Bibb for appellant, Hardin for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Dixon v. Sharp 1 A.K.Marsh. 211, 8 Ky. 211, 1818 WL 1316 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
