(Cite as: 3 Bibb 481,  6 Ky. 481 (Ky.),  1814 WL 836 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Handly v. Harrison. Oct. 24, 1814. West Headnotes Trial 388 k 234(1) 388 Trial 388VII Instructions to Jury 388VII(C) Form, Requisites, and Sufficiency 388k231 Sufficiency as to Subject-Matter 388k234 Evidence and Matters of Fact in  General 388k234(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where the court instructed the jury that plaintiff was bound to prove a fact which he was not bound to prove, and the jury found against plaintiff, a new trial will be granted. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 IN the consideration of this case we shall only inquire whether a new trial should have been awarded in consequence of the Court below having erred in the instructions which they gave to the jury on the trial in that Court? It is objected that Court erred in instructing the jury that unless they were satisfied from the evidence the defendant had converted the bonds, notes, and accounts in the declaration mentioned to his own use, etc., they should find for the defendant. It is error to instruct a jury that unless they are satisfied that?? the plaintiff had established that by proof which he was not bound to prove, they should find against him, and having so found the Court should at his instance grant a new trial. The correctness of this branch of that Court's instructions turns entirely on the construction which may be given to the declaration: for it is clear that if the cause of action alleged in the declaration is for the promise of the defendant, and his failure to perform that promise, and not for the conversion of the bonds, etc., no proof of a conversion was necessary on the part of the plaintiff to maintain his action. And that the action in this case is founded on the promise, and not on the conversion, we apprehend will be abundantly manifest by a slight attention to the declaration. It states the delivery of the bonds, etc., to the defendant, and his promise to collect and pay over the amount thereof or return the same on request, etc., and alleges for breach among other things the failure to return the bonds, etc., although specially requested: but charges a conversion of the same. Now it is evident although the declaration contains a charge of the defendant having converted the bonds, etc. the gist of the action is the promise to collect or return and the failure to fulfill that promise; and that the charge of a conversion is merely surplusage, and need not have been proved on the trial in the Court below. As, therefore, the Court instructed the jury they should find against the plaintiff, unless they were satisfied he had established that by proof which according to law he was under no necessity to prove, and the jury did accordingly find against him, that Court at his instance should have awarded a new trial. The judgment must consequently be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below and a new trial there awarded, and such farther proceedings had as may be necessary to a final trial. Ky.App. 1814. Handly v. Harrison 3 Bibb 481, 6 Ky. 481, 1814 WL 836 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
