(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 63,  8 Ky. 63 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1742 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Ficklin v. Green Clay, Assee. Nov. 24, 1817. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment rendered in favor of Clay as the assignee of the jailor, upon a bond given by Kelso and Ficklin, his surety, for keeping the prison rules. In a suit brought on a prison bound bond by the assignee of the jailor, the pltf. need not aver the escape of the obligor. The only question deemed material in deciding this contest, grows out of the decision of the court below in overruling the appellant's demurrer to the appellee's declaration. It is contended, that because the declaration contains no averment of Kelso having escaped from the prison rules, judgment should have been entered against the appellee upon the demurrer. In a suit against the jailor for refusing to assign such bond, such averment is necessary, the jailer being bound to assign only in the event of escape. We are unable, however, to perceive any necessity for such an averment in the present form of action. In an action against a jailor for refusing to assign a bond taken for the prison rules, as he is not bound to make the assignment unless the prison escapes, to shew his liability, on such a case, as was decided in the case of  Barnes v. Williams, 2 Bibb, 562, the declaration should contain an allegation of the prisoner having escaped. But in an action like the present, upon the bond, a breach, as in all similar actions upon obligations, in the words of the condition, is all that is required; and consequently, as the appellee has, in this instance, so alleged the breach in his declaration, the court did right in overruling the appellant's demurrer. The judgment must be affirmed with cost and damages. In suits brought on prison bound bonds, it is enough to lay the breach in the words of the bond. Pope, for appellant; Bibb, contra. Ky.App. 1817. Ficklin v. Clay 1 A.K.Marsh. 63, 8 Ky. 63, 1817 WL 1742 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
