(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 145,  22 Ky. 145 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1653 (Ky.)) Yel Flg Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Taylor, &c. v. Bradshaw. Oct. 30, 1827. *1 Occupants. Demurrers to Bills. Evidence Discovered After Trial. Suppression of Truth. Fraud. APPEAL FROM THE GREENUP CIRCUIT; W. P. ROPER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 443(1) 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k440 Misconduct of Party or Counsel 228k443 Fraud 228k443(1) k. Procuring Judgment in General. Most  Cited Cases That an adversary in a suit at law has not communicated to the other party evidence which might defeat his claim is no ground for relief, either on the ground of newly-discovered evidence or of alleged fraud. Judgment 228 k 446 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k446 k. Newly Discovered Evidence. Most Cited  Cases Equity will not give relief against a judgment at law on testimony which, with due care and diligence, might have been produced at the trial in which such judgment was rendered. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. The present appellants brought an action of ejectment against the appellee, and finally succeeded in recovering a judgment for lands of which he was possessed. Lands recovered in ejectment. The appellee, claiming to be paid for the improvements made by him on the land, applied to the court and obtained an order appointing commissioners to value the improvements, under the act of 1812, concerning occupying claimants. Commissioners appointed to value the improvements. This order was made without opposition on the part of the appellants; but before the commissioners acted upon the subject, an order was made reserving to the appellants the privilege of contesting the right of the appellee to pay for his improvements, on the coming in of the commissioner's report; and after the report was made to court, the appellants appeared by their counsel, and urged their objections to the claim of the appellee for improvements. The occupant's right to pay for his improvements contested. Their objections were, however, overruled, and judgment entered in favor of the appellee, accord-to the report of the commissioners. Objections to the claim overruled, and judgment according to the report of the commissioners. Some time thereafter, the appellants filed their bill in equity with injunction, to be relieved against the judgment which was rendered on the commissioner's report. Bill for relief against the judgment for the value of the improvements. The bill was demurred to by the appellee, and the demurrer sustained. Demurrer to the bill. From the decision on that demurrer, this appeal was prayed; and the only question now to be considered involves the correctness of that decision. As the cause was decided upon demurrer, it is proper that we should, in revising the decision of the circuit court, assume as true, all the allegations of the bill, and inquire whether or not, as such, any sufficient cause is shown for the interposition of a court of equity. *2 Upon a demurrer, the bill is to be taken as true. The grounds of relief, as contained in the bill, are two fold. Grounds of the bill, viz: Evidence discovered since the trial, and fraud of Bradsha??v in concealing the same. 1. The discovery by the appellants, since the judgment of evidence going to show that when the appellee seated and improved the land, he had no title, either legal or equitable, to entitle him to pay for his improvements, under the act concerning occupants. And 2dly. That the discovered evidence was known to the appellee at the time of his obtaining the order appointing the commissioners, and by him fraudulently concealed from the appellants until after the adjournment of the court at which the judgment was rendered upon the commissioner's report. Before Bradshaw settled upon the land, he had obtained from Wm. Meek, an assignment of a bond which had been previously given to him for a title, by James Wynn, in whose name a survey including Bradshaw's settlement was made, in 1795, for 24,324 acres, under an entry dated in 1783; and for the purpose of bringing his case within the provisions of the occupying claimant law, and to show his right to compensation for the improvements made by him on the land, Bradshaw produced to the court before whom the report of the commissioners was pending, the bond given by Wynn to Meek, dated November, 1803, the assignment thereof to him by Meek, dated January, 1804, and a certified copy from the Register's office, of the survey which was made the 17th day of December, 1795, in the name of Wynn, for the 24,324 acres of land, together with the following endorsement on the back of the copy of the survey, to-wit: "William Johnson, assignee of J. Wynn, 24,324 acres." Upon this evidence, Bradshaw was adjudged to be entitled to the benefits of the occupying claimant law, and judgment entered in his favor, upon the report of the commissioners. The equitable title shown by Bradshaw to entitle him to pay for his improvements. The evidence which is alleged by the appellants, to have been since discovered by them, and which they contend goes to show that, at the time of his settling upon, and improving the land, Bradshaw had no title, either legal or equitable, deducible of record, consists of an assignment by Wynn to Wm. Johnson, of the plat and certificate of the 24,324 acres survey of Wynn, dated before the bond of Wynn to Meek, and that the patent which also issued from the commonwealth to Wm. Johnson, as assignee of J. Wynn, before the date of Wynn's bond to Meek, for the same 24,324 acres that was surveyed for Wynn. The evidence alleged to be newly discovered by Taylor, &c. The evidence which is thus alleged by the appellants, to have been discovered by them since the decision of the court upon the report of the commissioners, would doubtless have had an important bearing upon the opinion of the court, if it had been produced on the hearing of the objections which were taken to the right of Bradshaw to be paid for his improvements under the occupying claimant at law, when the commissioners report was under consideration. But admitting the materiality of the discovered evidence, and conceding that if it had been before the court on the hearing of the objections to the report of the commissioners, the decision should have been in favor of the appellants, and not, as it was, against them; still it will be found that the appellants have not made out such a case as will authorize a court of equity to lend its aid, and relieve them against the judgment, upon the ground of discovered evidence. For the assignment of the plat and certificate of survey, by Wynn to Johnson, and the patent to Johnson, (both of which are alleged to have been discovered) were of record in the office of the Register, to which all may have access, and if not known to the appellants before the copy of the survey was produced by Bradshaw to the court, they must, upon reading the endorsement upon that copy have perceived, that in all probability, such an assignment and patent did exist, and as vigilant suitors should have employed the appropriate means, by searching the office of the Register to find them, before the case was decided by the court. Having, however, failed to do so, the appellants under their alleged discovery, do not present themselves before the court free from fault, and it is an established rule with courts of equity, never to relieve a party against the effect of his own laches in a matter exclusively cognizable in the court by which it has been determined. *3 Equity will not relieve a party from a judgment, upon the ground of a discovery of new evidence after the trial at law, where it appears that the party was not vigilant in searching for, and procuring, the evidence, which was within his reach before the trial. With respect to the second ground relied on for relief, there is still less pretense for the interposition of a court of equity. Though Bradshaw is charged in the bill, with having committed fraud in concealing from the appellants, the facts of the assignment of the survey by Wynn, and the emanation of the patent thereafter, to his assignee Johnson, there is nothing in the facts alleged, which according to any fair inference, can be construed into such a fraud as will warrant the interference of the court. We have seen that by the endorsement which was upon the copy of the survey that was produced to the court by Bradshaw, the appellants might reasonably have inferred that the plat and certificate of survey had not only been assigned, but that a patent had also issued for the land contained in the survey to Johnson; and after having furnished evidence of that sort, it would be going farther than we have any recollection of any court ever having gone, and further than any court ought to go, to fix upon Bradshaw, the commission of fraud merely because he did not disclose to his adversary all the circumstances within his knowledge, that might tend to weaken his claim or defeat his recovery. A party litigant is not bound to disclose circumstances which go to defeat his recovery, or weaken his claim. Fraud may no doubt be, and frequently is, committed by the suppression of truth, as well as by the suggestion of falsehood, and it is equally competent for the court to relieve against the fraud, whether it be perpetrated in the one way or the other. Fraud may be committed by the suppression of truth, as well as by the suggestion of falsehood; but one from whom a party has no right to expect information commits no fraud in remaining silent. By suppressing the truth, the deception may often be as base, and the injury to others as great as by the suggestion of falsehood. But the failure to disclose to others whatever is known to us, can not with any propriety be at all times a suppression of the truth. From those who have reason to expect information from us, the truth should not be withheld; but such as look not to us for information, and expect no disclosure from us, have no cause to complain of our silence, and to reproach us for not speaking, with having suppressed the truth. By the act of Bradshaw asserting claim for improvements, the appellants were admonished not to expect from him a disclosure of any thing which would prove that he was not entitled to the benefits of the occupying claimant law, and it would be preposterous to suppose that they were deluded and deceived by any failure of his, in not disclosing to them the evidence which might defeat his claim. *4 Neither on the ground of discovered evidence, nor that of the alleged fraud, can it, therefore, be competent for a court of equity to grant relief against the judgment rendered on the commissioners' report, and the court below was consequently correct in decreeing a dismission of the appellants' bill. The grounds for relief in this case, were not made out.. The decree is therefore affirmed with costs and damages upon the damages decreed by that court. Triplett, for plaintiffs; Mayes, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Taylor v. Bradshaw 6 T.B.Mon. 145, 22 Ky. 145, 1827 WL 1653 (Ky.), 17 Am.Dec. 132 END OF DOCUMENT
