(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 570,  8 Ky. 570 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1088 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hunt & Blanton v. John F. Stephenson. Jun. 10, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE HARDIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Payment 294 k 66(1) 294 Payment 294IV Proceedings to Establish Payment 294k65.10 Burden of Proof 294k66 Lapse of Time 294k66(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A draft, though not proved to have been paid, if it remain a long time in the drawee's hands, and is not shown to have been returned, will be presumed to have been satisfied. Equity 150 k 344 150 Equity 150V Evidence 150k338 Answer as Evidence 150k344 k. For or Against Codefendant. Most Cited  Cases The answer of one defendant is not evidence against a co-defendant. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was a suit in chancery with injunction, brought by Stephenson to be relieved against a judgment at law, recovered against him by Hunt and Blanton, as the assignees of Sproule. The bill charges, that having a demand upon Ireland, and desirous of procuring its collection, Stephenson drew in favor of Sproule for the amount, and received from him one hundred dollars; but the bill having been returned with protest for non-acceptance, upon an adjustment of the accounts between them, Stephenson executed his note to Sproule for $150, and at the same time drew upon a certain James Kerns, for the like amount, which, when received by Sproule, was to be in discharge of the note; but the bill moreover charges that Sproule, although he has received the amount from Kerns, instead of restoring to Stephenson the note, assigned it to Hunt and Blanton, who having obtained judgment upon it at law, and after making them and Sproule defendants, prays for an injunction against the judgment, and general relief. The cause having come to a final hearing, the injunction obtained by Stephenson was made perpetual, and to reverse that decree, Hunt and Blanton have prosecuted this writ of error. In the consideration of this case, two questions arise--1st. As to Stephenson's right to relief against Hunt and Blanton--and 2d. If not entitled to relief against them, whether a decree should be pronounced in his favor against Sproule. With respect to the first question it should be observed, that the answer of Sproule, a co-defendant, can not, according to the settled rules of chancery practice, be used as evidence against Hunt and Blanton, and as they have admitted nothing, the right to relief against them must turn upon the effect of the evidence and exhibits contained in the record. The answer of one defendant can not be used against another. The note upon which the judgment at law was obtained, must be considered as implying a valuable consideration and the only evidence in relation to the draft upon Kerns is contained in a receipt executed by Sproule, and exhibited by Stephenson in the following words, &c. *2 Frankfort, December 19, 1812. "Received of Mr. Stephenson his note for $150, and a draft on Mr. Jas. Kerns for the like amount, which when paid will be in full for all demands against him to this date, including a draft on Ireland." This receipt is certainly competent to show, that a draft was given upon Kerns, and as it is not shown to have been returned by Sproule, although not proven to be paid, from the length of time it has been in Sproule's hands, should be presumed to be satisfied, and, consequently, if drawn for the same debt for which the note was given, forms a sufficient ground to perpetuate the injunction against Hunt and Blanton. A draft delivered to the drawee and retained for a considerable time, will be presumed as paid. But we are not of opinion that upon any fair construction, the receipt can be interpreted so as to imply the draft on Kerns was intended to satisfy the note executed by Stephenson, and there being no other circumstance (as against Hunt and Blanton) conducing to prove it was so intended, the decree against them can not be sustained. But with respect to Sproule, we are of opinion Stephenson has shown himself entitled to relief. Though not admissible against Hunt and Blanton, the answer of Sproule is clearly evidence against himself, and notwithstanding it alleges the note and draft were not intended to secure the same demand, yet from the whole of the answer taken together, it is obvious, that Stephenson was not indebted to Sproule more than the amount of one of them. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with cost, and the cause remanded to the court below, and the bill, as to Hunt and Blanton, dismissed with cost, but a decree entered against Sproule conformable to the principles of this opinion. Hardin for plaintiff, B. Hardin for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1819. Hunt v. Stephenson 1 A.K.Marsh. 570, 8 Ky. 570, 1819 WL 1088 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
