(Cite as: 3 Bibb 51,  6 Ky. 51 (Ky.),  1813 WL 599 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Combs v. Fisher. May 25, 1813. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 203 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(A) As to Each Other 400k203 k. Injuries to Property. Most Cited  Cases A sale of land was made, with cabin and other improvements thereon, possession to be given at a future day. Before that day, the cabin was burned, the rails destroyed, etc., and the vendor ordered to make compensation for the loss. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 203 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(A) As to Each Other 400k203 k. Injuries to Property. Most Cited  Cases Where A. sold to B. a tract of land, with a cabin thereon, and covenanted to deliver possession of the property in the same situation in which it then was, it was held that B. should recover, on the covenant, the value of the cabin;  the same having been burned before A. delivered possession. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 COMBS being the owner of a tract of land, with a cabin and other improvements thereon, on the 10th day of January, 1806, sold the same to Fisher, and promised to deliver possession thereof to Fisher, in the same situation it then was, against the first day of January next thereafter. To recover the amount of an obligation executed by Fisher in part pay for the land and improvements, Combs prosecuted suit and obtained judgment in the Casey Circuit Court. For the purpose of obtaining relief against that judgment, Fisher exhibited his bill in chancery, alleging the purchase of the land and improvements aforesaid, the promise o?? Combs to deliver possession in the same situation it was when the purchase was made, etc., and charges that the place was not delivered in that situation, but that the cabin was burned and a number of rails destroyed, etc. He prayed and obtained an injunction on the judgment at law, and asked for general relief. The injunction was dissolved; but on a final hearing of the cause, the Circuit Court decreed compensation for the cabin and rails, the value whereof was ascertained by the verdict of a jury. From which decree this writ of error has been prosecuted. We think the decree of the Circuit Court correct. The evidence in the cause satisfactorily proves the promise on the part of Combs to deliver possession of the place in the same situation it was when Fisher purchased, and that the cabin was burned and rails destroyed before possession was delivered. Combs' express promise, therefore, should be binding on him. The circumstance of the cabin having been burnt by accident, as is urged by Combs, cannot relieve him from his express undertaking. For wherever the covenant is express, there must be an absolute performance, nor can it be discharged by any collateral matter whatever--Esp. N. P. 270. The objection to the smallness of the amount in controversy we think not entitled to any weight. The cause was finally tried on the bill, answer, etc. No objections were taken to the jurisdiction by plea in abatement, nor does any exist on the face of the bill; upon such a state of pleadings, no objection to the jurisdiction can be maintained on the final hearing of the cause.--Decree affirmed. C sold to F a tract of land, with a cabin, etc., and contracted to deliver possession in the same situation it then was--the cabin was burned before possession was delivered; the value of the cabin and rails decreed to be set off against the judgment at law on the bond for the purchase money. Ky.App. 1813. Combs v. Fisher 3 Bibb 51, 6 Ky. 51, 1813 WL 599 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
