(Cite as: 5 Litt. 1,  15 Ky. 1 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1347 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Tutt v. Brown. Apr. 6, 1824. *1 FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. HENRY DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Principal and Agent 308 k 143(2) 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(B) Undisclosed Agency 308k143 Rights of Undisclosed Principal 308k143(2) k. Contracts in General. Most Cited  Cases Where an agent makes a contract by concealing his agency, and the principal sues on such contract, any set-off or discount which the defendant may have against the agent will be available as against the principal. Principal and Agent 308 k 145(2) 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(B) Undisclosed Agency 308k145 Liabilities of Undisclosed Principal 308k145(2) k. Agents' Contracts in General. Most Cited  Cases A contract made with an agent is a contract with the principal, whether or not the agent discloses the capacity in which he acted, and such principal is liable to the party with whom he contracted. Principal and Agent 308 k 146(2) 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(B) Undisclosed Agency 308k146 Liabilities of Agent of Undisclosed Principal 308k146(2) k. Contracts in General. Most Cited  Cases Where an agent conceals his agency in the making of a contract, he renders himself personally liable to the party with whom the contract is made. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 44(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k43 Joint and Separate Claims and Liabilities 352k44 In General 352k44(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a principal sues on a contract made by his agent, who conceals the agency, defendant may avail himself, by way of set-off, of any claim which he may have against the agent. J. J. MARSHALL for Tutt; MONROE and SHARP for Brown. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. George H. Tutt, the son of the plaintiff, Hansford Tutt whilst in the service of his father, and for his benefit, contracted with the defendant, Brown, to transport, in his father's wagon, a quantity of bagging, to Colonel Pearce, near Huntville, at a stipulated price to be paid by the said Brown; and in pursuance of his undertaking, the said George H. Tutt actually transported, in the wagon of his father, the bagging, and delivered the same on the farm of Colonel Pearce near Huntsville. Whilst contracting with Brown for the transportation of the bagging, nothing was said by George H. Tutt about his being employed in the service of his father, nor does it appear that Brown, at that time or for some time after the bagging was transported to Pearce, knew that the service was performed by the son for the benefit of his father. *2 A contract made with an agent, is a contract with the principal, whether the agent disclosed the capacity in which he acted or not. But, in such case, the agent, by concealing his agency, renders himself personally, as well as his principal, liable to the party with whom he contracted. Brown failed to pay the said George H. Tutt the price agreed to be given for transporting the bagging, and this suit was brought in the name of Hansford Tutt, the father, to recover the price. On the trial in the court below, after the preceding facts were in substance proved, the jury were instructed by that court, that the plaintiff had no cause of action; but that the right of suit was exclusively in the son, George H. Tutt. Whether or not the court was correct in so instructing the jury, is the only question presented for the decision of this court. If the principal sues on such contract any setoff or discount which the defendant may have against the agent, will be available against the principal. That, in moral justice, the plaintiff is entitled to the price agreed to be paid by Brown for the transportation of the bagging, is a proposition that none, it is presumed, will pretend to controvert. The service, though performed by George H. Tutt, the son, was not for his own benefit, but for the benefit of the plaintiff, and in justice the plaintiff is most indisputably entitled to the amount which was agreed to be paid by Brown. Being, therefore, entitled to the price, it would seem to follow as a necessary consequence, upon general principles, that the plaintiff is entitled to maintain an action to recover it; for it is well settled, that as a general rule, the right of property draws with it the right of action. The right of the plaintiff to maintain his action, would be undeniable, if, at the time of contracting for the transportation of the bagging, the son had made known to Brown his true character as agent, and the promise of Brown had been to pay the price to the plaintiff. In that case, the contract of Brown, though made with the son, would, in a legal sense, be considered a contract with the father, and of course the father's right to sue for a violation of the promise of Brown, would be unquestionable. But, at the time of making the contract with Brown, the circumstance of the son being in the employment and acting for the benefit of the father, was not made known to Brown; and the question arises, whether or not that circumstance affects the right of the father to maintain his action. The circumstance of the son's failing to disclose his true character, certainly does not affect the justice of the father's claim for the price agreed to be paid for the service. If the price had been paid by Brown to the son, the son would be responsible for the amount, and the right of the father to the price must be admitted to be the same before it is paid to the son, that it would be after received by him. By failing to disclose his true character, the son may have imposed upon himself a personal liability to Brown, which he would not otherwise have been subject to; but he can not have thereby deprived the father of the price agreed to be paid by Brown for transporting the bagging. The right of the father to the price is nevertheless the same, and for a violation of that right by Brown, the law must be admitted to afford him a remedy. The remedy which the law affords does not, however, deprive Brown of any defense which he might have against the demand, considered as belonging to the son; for having contracted with the son without a knowledge of his true character of agent, Brown should be permitted to consider him as principal, so as to allow him to avail himself of any defense to the action by the principal, that would have been admissible against the claim, if asserted by the son. Thus, in an analogous case, Lord Mansfield observed, "where a factor, dealing for a principal, but concealing that principal, delivers goods in his own name, the person contracting with him has a right to consider him, to all intents and purposes, as the principal; and though the real principal may appear, and bring an action upon that contract against the purchaser of the goods, yet that purchaser may set-off any claim he may have against the factor, in answer to the demand of the principal." Paley on Agency, 253. *3 It is, therefore, the opinion of the court, that the court below erred in its instructions to the jury, and that the judgment of that court must consequently be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and a new trial there had. Ky.App. 1824. Tutt v. Brown 5 Litt. 1, 15 Ky. 1, 1824 WL 1347 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 33 END OF DOCUMENT
