(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 41,  10 Ky. 41 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1153 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thomas Moore v. Kenaz Farrow et al. Nov 29,1820 *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM THE BOURBON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 668(3) 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k667 Parties of Record 228k668 In  General 228k668(3) k. Persons Not Served with Process. Most  Cited Cases A decree in chancery is not evidence against a party upon whom service of process is not shown. Acknowledgment 12 k 4 12 Acknowledgment 12I Nature and Necessity 12k4 k. Instruments to Be Acknowledged or Proved. Most Cited Cases Principal and Agent 308 k 10(2) 308 Principal and Agent 308I The Relation 308I(A) Creation and Existence 308k7 Appointment of Agent 308k10 Letters or Powers of Attorney Under  Seal 308k10(2) k. Acknowledgment and Record. Most Cited  Cases A power of attorney to convey lands should be proved, or acknowledged, and left to be recorded, in the same manner as the conveyance itself. Acknowledgment 12 k 19 12 Acknowledgment 12II Taking and Certificate 12k14 Authority to Take 12k19 k. Extraterritorial Authority. Most Cited Cases The clerk of a county court may take acknowledgments of deeds for land lying in another county. Acknowledgment 12 k 53 12 Acknowledgment 12III Operation and Effect 12k53 k. Admissibility of Instrument to Record. Most Cited Cases The clerk of a county court may take acknowledgments of deeds for land lying in another county, and on his certificate the deed may be recorded in the proper county. Adverse Possession 20 k 63(5) 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(F) Hostile Character of Possession 20k59 Possession Consistent with That of Another, and  Possession Becoming Adverse After Amicable Entry 20k63 By Vendor or  Purchaser 20k63(5) k. By Purchaser and His Privies in General.  Most Cited Cases Where a contract for the sale of land has been consummated by the giving of a deed, the vendee holds adversely to the vendor, and may set up another title, or in any other manner question the vendor's title. Estoppel 156 k 29 156 Estoppel 156II By Deed 156II(A) Creation and Operation in General 156k29 k. Grantees. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 156k29(1)) A grantee is not estopped from denying his grantor's title. Evidence 157 k 345(2) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k345 Requisites of Exemplification or Certificate 157k345(2) k. Judicial Acts, Records, and Proceedings.  Most Cited Cases A copy of a record, attested by a deputy clerk, subjoining the initials of his official character, is evidence. Evidence 157 k 353(11) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(C) Private Writings and Publications 157k353 Conveyances, Contracts, and Other Instruments 157k353(11) k. Record. Most Cited  Cases Where a deed was proved by the clerk of the county court of another county, but not within the time required for recording deeds, the certificate of that proof by the clerk is not competent evidence of its execution. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 This is an appeal from a judgment, for seven-eighteenth parts of a tract of land, in the county of Montgomery, recovered by the appellees in an action brought by them in the circuit court against the appellants. The appellees claim the land under sales made by sheriffs, under two executions, one of which issued on a decree of the Fleming circuit against the devisees of Jacob Myers, deceased, in favor of George Johnson; and the other issued on a judgment of the Fleming circuit court against Reuben Coffer and Ralph Morgan, in favor of Hawkins Donathan. And for the purpose of shewing that the land in contest was subject to the sale under the execution, against the devisees of Myers, the appellees, on the trial in the circuit court, offered in evidence a writing purporting to be a copy, from the Lincoln county court, of the will of Jacob Myers, deceased, and authenticated by the following certificate: "A copy teste, Bryan Y. Owsley, D. C. L. C. C." To the reading in evidence this copy, the appellants objected, on the ground of its not being properly authenticated; but their objections were overruled, and the copy used in evidence before the jury. We are of opinion the copy was properly admitted in evidence. If the certificate should be construed to have been made by a deputy clerk of the Lincoln county court, there can, we apprehend, be no reasonable objection to its admission. For as the office of clerk may be exercised by deputy, any certificate which the clerk, in the course of his official duty, might make, may be made by his deputy; and there is no doubt but that the copy of a will, duly certified by the clerk, is admissible evidence. The certificate, it is true, contains no express statement of the person by whom it is subscribed being deputy, but we suppose the initials attached to his name plainly import that he is deputy, and that which is implied from the certificate, is, to every legal purpose, equivalent to an expression of it. A copy of a record attested by a deputy clerk and with the initials of his official character, is evidence. To shew title through the purchaser, under the execution against the devisees of Myers, the plaintiffs in the court below, the appellees here, offered in evidence a deed to them from David Trimble, but its admission as evidence was objected to by the appellants, and the objection overruled by the court, and the deed read to the jury. The deed purports to bear date the first of March, 1817, and from the certificate of the clerk of Bath county court, appears to have been proven before him by the subscribing witnesses thereto, on the 12th of November, 1818, and recorded in his office, but was never recorded in the office of the county court of Montgomery, where the whole of the land lies; nor was its execution proven on the trial by either of the subscribing witnesses, or in any other way than by the certificate of the clerk of Bath county, as aforesaid. The admission of the deed was objected to on the ground of the clerk's certificate not being competent evidence of its execution. We think the deed should not have been admitted as evidence. As no part of the land lies in the county of Bath, it is perfectly clear, if the deed had been made, and the proof taken by the clerk, before the passage of the act of January, 1810, (Session acts of 1809, page 129), that the certificate of the clerk would have been incompetent to prove its execution. For, as before the passage of that act, clerks had no authority to take the proof and admit to record deeds for the conveyance of land, "unless some part thereof lay within their county," it follows, that, before that time, the clerk of Bath could not have legally taken the proof and admitted to record the deed now in question; and it would consequently follow, that the act of the clerk done without authority of law, could not be admissible evidence of the due execution of the deed. But by the second section of that act, it is provided, that if any person, making a deed of conveyance, shall acknowledge the same in any county court of this commonwealth, or if it shall therein be proved, by two credible witnesses, or if he shall acknowledge it in the office of any such court, before the clerk thereof, or if it shall be proved in such office, before the clerk, by two credible witnesses, it shall be lawful for the clerk to certify the same on such deed; and being duly certified, in any of the ways aforesaid, shall authorize the same to be recorded in the office of the county court of the county in which the land lieth, or in the office of the general court, or court of appeals, as though the acknowledgment or proof had taken place in the recording office, &c. *3 The clerks of county courts may take the proofs or acknowledgment of deeds for lands lying in another county, and on his certificate, the deed may be recorded in the proper county; but to render such proof or acknowledgment valid, it must be made, within the time limited for recording deeds. There is no question but, under this act, clerks of the county courts may, regardless of the place where the land lies, take the acknowledgment, or proof, of the execution of deeds; and if, in the case before us, the proof had been taken by the clerk within the time required for recording the deed in the proper office, it might, with some force, be contended, that the certificate of the clerk should be evidence of its execution; but even then, as the deed in fact has never been recorded, (to provide for which is the main object of the act), it might fairly be questioned, whether. without other proof of its execution, the deed would, upon the certificate of the clerk, be admissible evidence. Be that, however, as it may, we entertain no doubt, the act should not be construed so as to authorize clerks, after the time for recording deeds has elapsed, to take proof of their execution; for it is expressly for the purpose of enabling those interested, with more facility, to have deeds recorded, that the authority is given to clerks of other county courts than that of the county in which the land lies; and in giving an exposition of the act, it should not be construed to have an operation beyond the object and intention of its makers. It results, therefore, that as the deed from Trimble appears not to have been proven within the time required for recording deeds, the certificate of that proof was incompetent to prove its execution, and consequently the court should have excluded it from the jury. In the further progress of the trial, and after the plaintiffs in that court had given in evidence the execution against the devisees of Myers, and a transcript of the decree upon which the execution issued, and other proceedings had in that cause, the defendants, there, moved the court to instruct the jury, that, as there was no service of process, either actual or constructive, upon two of the persons named as defendants in that cause and as the decree purports to have been taken upon default, and without appearance of any of the defendants, the decree, as to those upon whom there was no service of process, was inoperative, and that as to them, the purchaser under the execution acquired no title by the sale and conveyance of the sheriff, but the motion was overruled and the instructions refused. To render a decree obligatory on defendant there must be service of process, actual or constructive, or an appearance. Assuming the facts to exist, upon which the defendants' motion was hypothecated, we should be of opinion the instructions ought to have been given. We have been unable to find any case where the effect of either a judgment or decree, rendered without appearance or service of process, has been decided; but the absence of authority, in such a case, is, in itself, sufficient to maintain the invalidity of such a decree. We subscribe to the doctrine, in its fullest extent, that where the parties have either contested, or had an opportunity of contesting, any matter decided by a court of competent jurisdiction, they should not be again permitted to question the same matter, in any subsequent controversy between the same parties; but it would not only be contrary to the spirit and genius of our law, but palpably unjust, to conclude any by a decree of judgment to which he is neither party or privy, and which he has had no opportunity of controverting. And how can a person have had an opportunity of contesting either a decree or judgment, unless he be a party? and how can he be a party, unless he be notified of the pendency of the suit, either by actual or constructive service of process? It may, however, be proper to remark, that as to one of the persons, the facts, upon which the motion of the defendants was hypothecated, do not exist; for, by the return of the sheriff on the subpoena, which issued in the chancery cause against the devisees of Myers, it appears to have been served in due time on David Myers, one of the persons as to whom the instructions were asked. *4 It also appears, that after the plaintiffs in the circuit court, had introduced a transcript of the judgment of the Fleming circuit court against Ralph Morgan, and the execution which issued thereon, together with the sheriff's deed evidencing the sale of Morgan's interest thereunder, the defendants offered in evidence, for the purpose of shewing that Morgan's interest was not liable to be sold under the execution, a letter of attorney from Ralph Morgan to Joseph Young, sealed by Morgan, and bearing date the first of September, 1815, and purporting to have been recorded by the clerk of the Montgomery county court, upon the acknowledgment of Morgan, in his office, on the 25th of September, 1815, prior to the date of the execution against Morgan; but the court being of opinion that the letter of attorney was not duly and legally recorded, would not permit it to be read in evidence, without other proof of its execution. The execution of the letter of attorney was then proven by parol evidence; and the defendants produced and read in evidence deeds of conveyance from Ralph Morgan by said Young, executed in pursuance of the letter of attorney aforesaid, and acknowledged and recorded in the clerk's office of the Montgomery county court, where the land lies, in due time, and before the date of the execution against Morgan: Whereupon, the plaintiffs moved the court, and it accordingly instructed the jury, that because the letter of attorney was not duly and legally recorded, the deeds of conveyance, made by Young, the agent, were void against the creditor in the execution and the purchaser thereunder. A power of attorney to convey lands, should be proved or acknowledged and left to be recorded, in the same manner as a conveyance itself, and the clerk to take such proof or acknowledgment. In excluding the letter of attorney, as well as in deciding on the validity of the deed of conveyance, the court appears to have gone on the idea, that, to be valid against creditors and purchasers, the deed of conveyance should not only be recorded within due time, but the power of attorney, under which it was made, should also be recorded within the same time, and that the clerk, by whom proof may be taken of the execution of the deed of conveyance, possesses no power to take the acknowledgment of the execution of the power. That to be valid against creditors, or a purchaser for a valuable consideration, not having notice thereof, the deed must be either proven, or acknowledged, and lodged with the clerk of the proper court to be recorded within the time prescribed by law, is a proposition not to be controverted by any who may take the trouble of adverting to the statute on that subject. By the first section of the act regulating conveyances,  (1 Littell, 569), it is provided, that no conveyance shall be good against a purchaser for a valuable consideration, not having notice thereof, or any creditor, unless the same writing be acknowledged by the party or parties who shall have sealed and delivered it, or be proved by three witnesses to be his, her, or their act, in the office of the clerk of the court of appeals, or of a district court, or in a court of quarter sessions, or county court, in the manner prescribed by law, or in the manner herein after directed, within eight months after the sealing and delivering and be lodged with the clerk of such court to be there recorded. *5 But this section contains no express requisition for recording, or lodging to be recorded, powers of attorney under which the conveyance may be made. The power must, however, be by deed, and this court, in furtherance of the design of the legislature to protect creditors and purchasers, have heretofore, upon a liberality of construction, held that the requisitions of the act should not only be observed in the recording of deeds of conveyance, but they should be moreover regarded in the execution and recording powers by which the conveyance is made. See  2 Bibb, 420. But admitting the act applies to, and requires powers of attorney to be proven and lodged to be recorded, the question arises as to the power of clerks of county courts to take the acknowledgment of such powers; for if they possess such power, as that under which the deed in question was made appears to have been acknowledged before the clerk of the county court of the county where the land lies, and admitted to record within the time required by law, the court ought not to have excluded it from the jury; nor ought the court to have held the deed, which was made in pursuance thereof, and also recorded in proper time, in valid as to the creditors and purchasers of Morgan. That the clerks possess such power, we apprehend, will readily be perceived by adverting to the act of 1798,  (2 Littell, 262), and that of 1795, ( 1 Littell, 320.) The act of 1798, provides, "That it shall be lawful for the clerks of the county courts, and courts of quarter sessions, to receive the acknowledgment and proof of deeds out of court, in like manner as the clerk of the court of appeals, or district court clerks, are authorized to do by law." And the act of 1795, provides, that all deeds and other writings, may be recorded in the office of the district court, provided if the same be for the conveyance of land; that the lands conveyed be within the said district. And if the lands conveyed by one deed, shall be in part of two districts, the said deed may be recorded in the office of the court of appeals. And it shall be the duty of the clerks of the district courts, and court of appeals, in the cases before mentioned, to receive the said deeds in their offices out of court, and record the same, taking the acknowledgment and proof of execution as is directed by law. According to the act of 1798, there can be no doubt but the county court clerks now possess as ample power in relation to the taking the acknowledgment and proof of deeds, as was conferred upon either the clerk of the district courts, or the clerk of the court of appeals, by the act of 1795. And by the act of 1795, we apprehend, there is as little room to doubt, but the clerks of the district courts and court of appeals, were authorized to take the acknowledgment of powers of attorney authorizing the conveyance. For, as we have already seen, powers to convey partake so far of the nature of a conveyance, as under the law requiring conveyances to be recorded, the power under which it is made must also be recorded, it would seem to follow, that under the expressions of the act of 1795, "all deeds and other writings for the conveyance of lands," powers to convey must be included. But, more especially, when it is recollected that the legislature were, by the act of 1795, providing for the recording of those writings in relation to the conveyance of land, which were necessary to be recorded by the statute of conveyancing, there can not be a doubt, but it was intended to authorize the clerks to take the acknowledgment of all writings necessary to the validity of a conveyance. *6 Upon the whole, we think the clerk of the county court of Montgomery had authority to take the acknowledgment of the power; and that upon his certificate of his having done so, the power should have been admitted in evidence; and as both the power, and deeds made thereunder, were recorded in due time, the deeds ought not to have been held invalid as against Morgan's creditors, and the purchaser under the execution. Other questions were made as to the regularity of the sale under the execution against Morgan; but as the judgment must, for other causes, be reversed, and as we suppose, from the principles of this opinion, those questions will not again occur in the circuit court, we have thought it unnecessary to notice them. In the further progress of the cause, the defendants, for the purpose of shewing that the land was not subject to sale under the execution against the devisees of Jacob Myers, introduced a deed of conveyance from the children of Jost, alias Joel Myers, devisees of Jacob Myers, to John Myers, one of the devisees, and a deed from said John to Frederick W. Grayson, together with the certificates on said deeds, all dated prior to the emanation of the execution against the said devisees; but the court being of opinion that the deed from the children of Joel Myers, had not been proven and lodged in the proper office to be recorded within due time, instructed the jury that it was void as to the purchaser under the execution against the devisees. For a conveyance to be valid against creditors or purchasers without notice, it must be proved or acknowledged and left to be recorded within 8 months of its date. The deed purports to include lands lying in the county of Bullitt, as well as that now in contest in the county of Montgomery, and appears to have been acknowledged by the several grantors, therein named, before the clerks of different county courts, at different times, and certified by the respective clerks prior to, and on the 3d day of, February, 1814, and upon those certificates, recorded by the clerk of the county court of Bullitt, on the 26th of May, 1814, and thereafter, on the 24th of October, 1814, upon those certificates admitted to record by the clerk of the court of appeals. Thus it appears, that more than eight months elapsed between the dates of the certificate of acknowledgment before the clerks of the county court, and the admission to record by the clerk of the court of appeals; but, as there is not twelve months between the dates of the certificates of acknowledgment before the county court clerks, and that of the deed being recorded in the office of the clerk of the court of appeals, it is contended, that under a sound construction of the sixth section of the act of 1796, regulating conveyancing,  (1 Littell, 269), the deed was recorded in due time. It is obvious, however, that the statute alluded to, has no bearing upon the deed in question. The parties to the deed have not taken a solitary step in compliance with the requisitions of that section; but have proceeded under the act of 1810, (Session acts, 122), and, according to that act, we apprehend, there can be no reasonable doubt, but the deed was not recorded in due time. That act, after authorizing the county court clerks, of counties in which the land does not lie, to take the acknowledgment or proof, of deeds, provides, "that when so taken and certified, it shall authorize the deed to be recorded in the office of the county court of the county in which the land lieth, or in the office of the general court, or court of appeals, as though the acknowledgment or proof had taken place in the recording office." And to be valid against purchasers, according to the law regulating conveyancing, the proof or acknowledgment of the deed must be made before the clerk of the court of appeals, and lodged with him to be recorded, within eight months from its date. *7 A vendee taking possession of lands under an executory contract, and expecting the title to be consummated by vendee can not question vendor's title, secus, if the title has been completed by deed, vendee then holds adversely to vendor, and may set up another title, or in any other way question vendor's title. It also appears, that the defendant, Moore, in the progress of the trial, gave in evidence a regular patent from the commonwealth of Virginia to John Edwards for the land in contest, dated the 10th of December, 1785, and produced deeds of conveyance from Edwards to him, dated the 6th of February, 1807; and it being admitted that the patent and conveyances cover the land in his possession, and that he had some twenty years ago entered on said land, claiming by deed from Ralph Morgan, and that he was living on the land when he obtained the conveyance from Edwards, and continued thereon ever since; the court instructed the jury, that as Moore originally entered on the land under Morgan, who claimed under Jacob Myers, he could not avail himself of the bar of seven years' possession, although he had acquired Edward's title, and had continued to claim under it for more than seven years. These instructions can not be admitted to be correct. For, whilst it is admitted, that, where possession is taken under another, it would be incompetent for the possessor, so long as he holds under an executory contract, looking to the person from whom he obtained the possession to protect the title, to controvert the title of his vendor, it is denied that after entering under a deed of conveyance, the possessor is precluded from protecting his possession by any title which he may subsequently acquire. After entering under an executed deed of conveyance, or after obtaining a deed from the person under whom the entry is made, the possessor must be considered as holding adverse to his vendor as well as to others; and, in such a case, he should be allowed every privilege, and permitted to urge every defence to protect his possession, that could be availing, if the possession had been originally obtained, in any other way. If, therefore, the defendant, Moore, is not estopped to controvert the title of Myers, and is admitted to have held adversely to him when he acquired the conveyance from Edwards, it follows, that, under the act of 1809, (Session act, 85,) to compel the speedy adjustment of land claims, the court erred in instructing the jury, that Moore could not avail himself of his possession for seven years in bar of the plaintiff's action. For that act expressly interdicts the commencement of any action, by those claiming under an adverse interfering entry, survey or patent, to recover from others a possession held for seven years, under a connected title in law or equity, deducible of record from the commonwealth. And the title of Moore, derived through Edwards, is not only adverse and interfering with that of Myers' but it is moreover deducible of record from the commonwealth. *8 The adverse possession of seven years is a good bar to an action brought since 1st Jan., 1816, for lands. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Bibb, for appellant; Haggin, for appellees. Ky.App. 1820. Moore v. Farrow 3 A.K.Marsh. 41, 10 Ky. 41, 1820 WL 1153 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
