(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 26,  10 Ky. 26 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1148 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Peter G. Voorhies v. James Bridgeford. Nov. 28, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 103 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k99 Possession Under Color of Title 20k103 k. Mixed Possession Under Hostile Titles,  or Conflicting Grants or Surveys. Most Cited Cases The right of entry in an elder outstanding patentee is not affected by an adverse possession of a part of the land covered by such elder patent, except so far as the adverse possession extended. Ejectment 142 k 25(2) 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k22 Defenses 142k25 Title or Right of Possession of Third  Person 142k25(2) k. Right to Show Outstanding Title. Most Cited  Cases When defendant in ejectment is in possession under color of title or right, he can avail himself of an outstanding title as a defense. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is prosecuted to a judgment rendered against Voorhies in an action of ejectment brought by him in the circuit court against Bridgeford. Voorhies serted as claim to the land in contest under a patent which issued from the commonwealth to Uriah Mallory, and after exhibiting a regular chain of title from the patentee to himself, and proving the patent to Mallory included the land in contest, and that he, and those through whom he claims, have been in the possession and continued occupancy of part of the land granted to Mallory for more than twenty years before the commencement of the ejectment: The defendant, Bridgeford, introduced as evidence the grant of the commonwealth to Stewart and Morgan for forty thousand acres of elder date than the grant to Mallory, which was admitted to include the whole of the land contained in Mallory's grant, but neither Stewart or Morgan, nor any one claiming under them, have ever had possession of any part of the land included within the grant to Mallory; nor did the defendant, Bridgeford, show any title under Stewart or Morgan, or in any manner connect his possession with the elder grant, or show any privity of estate or possession under it. The right of entry in an elder outstanding patentee, is not tolled by an adverse possession of more than 20 years of a part of the land covered by such elder patent, except so far as the adverse possession extended--nor need the tenant in possession shew any privity between himself and such outstanding patentee. To the giving in evidence the patent to Stewart and Morgan, Voorhies objected; but his objections were overruled, and the patent read in evidence; and upon the motion of the defendant, the court instructed the jury that the patent to Stewart and Morgan was such a subsisting title out of the plaintiff as would bar his action; and further instructed them to find as in case of a nonsuit. Exceptions were taken to the opinions of the court, and the evidence spread upon the record. *2 This court perceives no solid objection to the opinions of that court. The patent to Stewart and Morgan, being the first that issued from the commonwealth for the land in contest must of necessity have vested in them a right of entry in the land; and unless that right of entry has either from length of time or in some other way, been tolled or defeated, it must be supposed still to reside in them, and if so, as has been repeatedly held by this court, it was competent for the defendant to introduce the patent as evidence, for the purpose of showing that the plaintiff, under the patent of Mallory, gained no right of entry. Nor can the possession, which the plaintiff, and those under whom he claims, is proven to have held, be construed to effect Stewart and Morgan's right of entry in the land now in contest. That possession, as it appears to have been continued for upwards of twenty years, may, to its full extent, have tolled Stewart and Morgan's right of entry; but that possession appears to have been only of part of the land included in the patent of Mallory, and is not shown to extend over any part of the land now in contest; and from the circumstance of this suit having been brought to recover the possession from the defendant, for so much as the defendant is possessed the possession of those claiming under Mallory, cannot be supposed to include. The possession of those claiming under Mallory, therefore, although continued for twenty years, cannot have tolled Stewart and Morgan's right of entry in the land in contest, and consequently their title must, as was held by the court below, be considered such a subsisting title as to bar the plaintiff from recovering the possession of the land. It results, therefore, that the court not only decided correctly in admitting the patent to be given in evidence, and in instructing the jury that the title of Stewart and Morgan was such a subsisting title as would bar the plaintiff's recovery, but decided correctly, also in instructing the jury to find as in the case of a nonsuit. The judgment must affirmed with costs. Bibb and Crittenden for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1820. Voorhies v. Bridgeford 3 A.K.Marsh. 26, 10 Ky. 26, 1820 WL 1148 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
