(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 98,  17 Ky. 98 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1497 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Allen, &c. v. Gray, &c. Oct. 13, 1824. *1 Action, Confusion of Parties, Abatement. ERROR TO THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT; JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Parties 287 k 75(1) 287 Parties 287VI Defects, Objections, and Amendment 287k75 Defects and Grounds of Objection as to Parties in General 287k75(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases The death of a person, who was both plaintiff and defendant, after the action was brought does not cure the defect as to parties. Action 13 k 15 13 Action 13I Grounds and Conditions Precedent 13k15 k. Same Person Plaintiff and Defendant. Most Cited Cases The same person cannot be both plaintiff and defendant in a common-law action. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. The cases of Clarissa Thomas v. Clarissa Thoma?? and Edward  Thomas, 3 Litt. Rep. 8, and  Saunder?? heirs v. Saunders' executors, 2 Litt. Rep. 321, are d?? cisive in support of the judgment rendered in th?? case by the court below. The same person can not be plaintiff and defendant in a common law action. Each of those cases recognizes and adopts the principle, that the same person can not be both plaintiff and defendant in a common law action, whether the action be brought by and against the same person, singly or in conjunction with others. The present action was brought in the names af Archibald Allen, Cuthbert Bullitt, Daniel Fetter, John Sutton and Paul Skidmore, against John T. Gray, John Gwathmey, Paul Skidmore and George Greatsinger, upon a covenant executed by the latter to the former. The action being, therefore, both in the name of Skidmore as plaintiff and defendant, comes emphatically within the principle settled in the cases to which we have referred. That the action is by or against the same person in conjunction with others, does not vary the case. It is true, the replication of the plaintiffs, to which the defendants demurred, and which was adjudged insufficient by the court below, alleges, that after the action was commenced, and before the defendants appeared and pleaded, Skidmore departed this life, and the action, as to him, was abated; but, if the principle of law be as we have supposed, the action was irregularly commenced, and being erroneous in the origin, the error can not have been cured by the subsequent abatement. That the person who was both plaintiff and defendant died after action brought, and the suit was abated, as to him, before the other defendants appeared, does not cure the error; for it was in the origin of the suit. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Bibb, for plaintiffs; Denny, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Allen v. Gray 1 T.B.Mon. 98, 17 Ky. 98, 1824 WL 1497 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
