(Cite as: 4 Bibb 207,  7 Ky. 207 (Ky.),  1815 WL 726 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Dougherty, etc. v. Dorsey. Oct. 31, 1815. *1 In a joint action of trespass against several who sever in their defense, they cannot demand separate trials for the purpose of using a codefendant as a witness. If no evidence is given against a defendant he may be introduced as a witness. The original warrant issued by a justice upon a charge of felony, with the acquittal of the person charged thereon indorsedand signed by the justices who sat on the trial is evidence of the acquittal, in an action for a malicious prosecution. If the defendant moves the Court to decide whether there was or was not probable cause, and the Court overrule the motion and the defendant excepts, he must state the evidence, otherwise the Appellate Courtwill not regard the exception. In a joint action against several, if the jury sever the damages, the plaintiff may take judgment against all for the higher damages; and the severance of damages by the jury does not affect a judgment thus taken. Nor is the verdictand judgment vitiated because the several damages added together exceed the damages laid in the writ, the plaintiff taking judgment for the damages not exceeding those laid in the writ. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 256(5) 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(C) Conformity to Process, Pleadings, Proofs, and Verdict or Findings 228k256 Conformity to Verdict and Findings 228k256(5) k. Parties for or Against Whom Judgment May  Be Rendered. Most Cited Cases In a joint action against several, if the jury sever the damages, the plaintiff may take judgment against all jointly for the higher damages. Malicious Prosecution 249 k 61 249 Malicious Prosecution 249V Actions 249k57 Admissibility of Evidence 249k61 k. Termination of Prosecution. Most Cited  Cases In an action for a malicious prosecution, the original warrant issued by a justice on a charge of felony, with the acquittal of the person charged thereon, indorsed and signed by the justices who sat on the trial, is evidence of the acquittal. Trial 388 k 3 388 Trial 388I Notice of Trial and Preliminary Proceedings 388k3 k. Separate Trials in Same Cause. Most Cited Cases In a joint action of trespass against several, who sever in their defense, they cannot demand separate trials, for the purpose of using a codefendant as a witness. Appeal and Error 30 k 704.2 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(M) Questions Presented for Review 30k704.2 k. Findings and Decision. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 30k704(2)) Where it is assigned for error that the court below erred in not deciding whether there was or was not probable cause for an alleged malicious prosecution, when called upon for that purpose, and as the evidence is not made a part of the record, the court of appeals will be unable to decide the question. Damages 115 k 228 115 Damages 115XIII Remission of Excess 115k228 k. In General. Most Cited Cases In a joint action against several, if the amount of the several damages allowed exceeds the damages laid in the writ, it will not vitiate the judgment, if plaintiff take judgment only for damages not exceeding those laid in the writ. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *2 THIS action was brought in the Court below by Dorsey against Robert Dougherty, Daniel Culbert, Michael Dougherty and John Dickens, for a malicious prosecution. The plea of not guilty was separately pleaded by the latter defendant in that Court, and jointly by the three former; and upon calling the cause for trial, the former three moved the Court for a separate trial of the issue made up by them on the grounds that their co-defendant Dickens was a material witness for them to prove a probable cause for the prosecution; but their motion was overruled, and a joint trial had against all the defendants on both issues. Whether, therefore, that Court should have directed separate trials, is the first question presented for the determination of this Court. We are aware of no cause where it has been held that defendants, because they may have severed in their pleas, have at their election a right to separate trials; nor can we perceive on principle why they should have such a privilege. Cases no doubt may occur, where the Court would act strictly correct in permitting separate trials; but those cases must of necessity depend much on their particular circumstances; and the Court in either permitting or refusing a severance, must, as in almost every instance in the course of the preparation of a cause they do, exercise a considerable latitude of discretion. This discretion, it is admitted should not be abused to the prejudice of either party, but exercised in reasonable and proper limits. As respects the present case, we are however unable to perceive any possible injury which can have been sustained by the defendants in the Court below in consequence of the refusal of the Court to direct separate trials. If on a separate trial Dickens would have been a competent witness for the other defendants, so he would be on a joint trial. In the case of a separate trial, the jury who might try the first issue should regularly assess damages against all of the defendants; and those who should be found guilty thereafter, as well as those on the trial of whose issue the damages were assessed, should be made contributory to those damages--11 Coke 5--2 Tidd's Prac. 84. If then on the trial of the issue as to the other defendants, any evidence should be produced as to the guilt of Dickens, it is plain according to the authorities just cited he would be interested in the assessment of the damages, and consequently an inadmissible witness. Dickens then on a separate trial, could only have been used as a witness in the absence of all proof as to his guilt in the transaction complained of in the declaration; and in the absence of such proof, even on a joint trial there is no doubt but he would according to the settled rules of evidence, be a competent witness. The circumstance, therefore, of the Court having refused separate trials cannot warrant the interposition of this Court in setting aside the judgment. It is also made a question whether that Court should not have rejected the evidence introduced by the plaintiff there to prove a prosecution and acquittal. That evidence purports to be the original warrant which issued against the plaintiff in that Court, subscribed with the name of one of the justices of Henry county, together with an entry made thereon of the plaintiff having been acquitted of the charge therein mentioned, and signed by the names of two persons with the initials of their office of justice of the peace. The exceptions which were taken to the opinion of the Court do not suggest the grounds upon which the evidence was opposed in the Court below, but as there appears to have been no evidence before the Court of those persons whose names are subscribed to the acquittal being justices of the peace, the evidence, it is contended, should have been rejected. *3 The position contended for cannot, according to any rule of evidence, be admitted to prevail. For a breach of the penal laws, justices, upon proper information, are required to issue their warrant and cause to be apprehended the supposed offender; and when apprehended some two of them are bound to inquire into the charge, and either acquit or commit, according as the circumstances of the case may warrant. As, therefore, justices are thus required to proceed, it would be strange, if after having discharged the duty imposed on them by the law, their record of the proceedings so had did not prima facie imply that degree of verity necessary to elevate it to the grade of legitimate evidence. Indeed a case can scarcely be imagined, where the act of an officer, done under the authority of law in apt form, does not obtain that credit which constitutes competent evidence. In the common case of an original writ, the return of the officer to whom directed is always received as evidence of what has been done; and upon that return the Court before whom the cause depends either causes other process to issue or disposes of the cause as the return itself authorizes. So likewise with respect to office copies, although where there is no person authorized by law to give out copies, unless they are authenticated under the seal of the Court, proof will be required of their genuineness; yet when the person giving out the copy has authority by law to do so, his attestation is all that is required to give it authenticity. If then this be the rule as respects the acts of mere ministerial officers, a fortiori should the rule prevail with respect to the acts of justices of the peace, who combine in their official duty acts both of a ministerial and judicial character. It is assigned for error that the Court below erred in not deciding whether there was or was not probable cause for the prosecution, when called on for that purpose. The defendants in that Court (the plaintiffs here) certainly cannot have sustained an injury by the failure of the Court to decide on the question, unless the evidence went clearly to prove a probable cause; but as the evidence is not made part of the record, we are unble to say what should have been the decision of that Court; and consequently we cannot say the present plaintiffs have any just cause of complaint. It is also assigned for error that the verdict of the jury is erroneous in finding several damages against different defendants. The verdict found all of the defendants guilty, and as to Dickens assessed $500 damages, and as to the other defendants assessed $591 damages. Strictly speaking, the jury, after finding all of the defendants guilty, ought not to assess several damages; yet if they do so, according to the settled doctrine of the law, the irregularity may be cured by the plaintiff either entering a nolle prosequi as to one of the defendants, and taking judgment against the others, or by entering a remittitur as to the lesser damages, or even without entering a remittitur, by taking judgment for the greater damages.--2 Tidd's prac. 805. As, therefore, judgment was taken in this case for the greater damages only, the circumstance of the severance by the jury cannot vitiate it. *4 Nor do we suppose the judgment can in anywise be affected by the several damages assessed by the jury amounting to more than those laid in the declaration. It is true a plaintiff cannot regularly recover more damages than he lays in his declaration; and hence the jury in strictness ought not to assess greater damages; but as the irregularity in severing the damages, is cured by taking judgment for the greater damages, so we apprehend when the damages for which judgment is taken does not exceed those laid in the declaration, the irregularity resulting from the aggregate amount of damages exceeding that sum is also cured. And as that appears to be the case in the present instance, the judgment of the Court below is correct, and must be affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Dougherty v. Dorsey 4 Bibb 207, 7 Ky. 207, 1815 WL 726 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
