(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 632,  22 Ky. 632 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1194 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Groves v. Kennon and Wife. Apr. 11, 1828. *1 Gifts. Slaves. Wills. Devises. Estoppel. APPEAL FROM THE MASON CIRCUIT; S. W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 719 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(A) Nature of Title and Rights in General 409k719 k. Abandonment or Forfeiture of Devise or Legacy.  Most Cited Cases Where a legatee (in whose hands the testator had put certain slaves, but reclaimed the slaves, and bequeathed them by his will) had sold the slaves between the making of the will and the testator's death, being ignorant of the will, it was held that he should account for the value of the property at the time of the sale, and be allowed to claim under the will. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Thomas and William Berry both lived and died in the state of Virginia, the former having, previous to his death, made and published his last will and testament in writing, and the latter intestate. The executor who took upon himself the execution of the will of Thomas Berry, having also died, administration de bonis non. with the will annexed, was, by the court of Virginia, granted to Groves, and by the proper authority, in the same State, administraton of the estate of William Berry was also granted to Groves. At a sale by Groves of slaves comprised in the residuary bequest of Thomas Berry's will, Kenyon purchased two, and gave his bond to Groves for three hundred and fifty dollars, the price thereof. The bond was not paid by Kennon when it became payable, and suit was brought against him thereon by Groves, and judgment recovered for the amount, with interest and cost. Statement of the case, and the recovery of the judgment at law. This suit in equity was then brought by Kennon and wife, for the purpose of being relieved against the judgment and to compel Groves, as the administrator of both the Berrys, to account for the administration of both estates, Mrs. Kennon being one of the residuary legatees in the will of Thomas Berry, deceased, and one of the distributees of the estate of William Berry, deceased. The bill asked for and obtained an injunction against the judgment at law, prayed for so much of the estate as was coming to Mrs. Kennon and as might be necessary for that purpose, to be applied in satisfaction of the judgment, and the residue of her interest to be paid to the complainants. Bill for injunction and for distribution. Groves admits Mrs. Kennon to be one of the residuary legatees named in the will of Thomas Berry, does not deny her being one of the distributees of the estate of William Berry, and acknowledges that he administered on both estates. He exhibits settlements with the courts of Virginia, of both estates, professes a willingness to credit the judgment with the amount coming to Mrs. Kennon, if it be correct and equitable to do so, but he insists that before Kennon and his wife are entitled to anything under the residuary bequest contained in the will of Thomas Berry, they should account for two slaves, the children of a negro woman received by them from the testator, and which slaves, though possessed by them, were considered by the testator as part of his estate, and directed by him to form a part of his estate mentioned in the residuary bequest under which Kennon and his wife claim. *2 Answer of Groves, insisting on the residuary legatee's accounting for property in his possession, claimed by the testator in the devise as a part of the residum, as a condition to his claim under the will. Thomas Berry the testator, made his will in 1806, and did not die until 1819. So much of the will as relates to the matter in contest, is in the following words: "Whereas I put into the hands of my daughter Sally, wife of William Kennon, a negro girl named Lucy, which negro girl it is my will and desire shall be set free at the age of twenty-five years, but I reserve to myself all the children she may have previous to her arriving at the age of twenty-five years, all of which is to be considered part of my individual estate until the death of my wife, who is to have the direction of it during her life or widowhood, except the first she has, which I hereby give and bequeath to my grand daughter, Fanny Kennon." Thomas Berry's will. By another clause in the will, the testator directs that all the estate not otherwise disposed of and which he left to his wife during her life, should be divided equally in eight parts, one of which should belong to Mrs. Kennon. The girl Lucy mentioned in the clause of the will referrred to, had three children, the two youngest of which are the slaves which the administrator, Groves, contends should be accounted for by Kennon and wife. Kennon appears to have married his wife, the daughter of the testator, in 1794, and in that year brought her and the girl Lucy to this country, and has resided in this state ever since. From the proof it does not appear that any formal gift of Lucy was made by the testator to his daughter, when she left him, but it is evident from the evidence, that the girl was brought by his consent, and from the ownership exercised over her ever since, by Kennon, it is fairly to be inferred that he understood the girl to have been given by the father to his daughter, and that from all the circumstances we have no hesitation in saying that the girl Lucy ought, at the date of the will, to be considered the property of Kennon and not the property of the testator; so that it was not within the power of the testator against the consent of Kennon to dispose of the girl to others, either by will or any other way. But it is evident, however, that the testator intended that the two children now the subject of contest, should form part of his estate mentioned in this residuary clause of his will, and though not in his power to dispose of them against the consent of Kennon, it is contended that Kennon and his wife cannot, at the same time claim under and against the will, and that they should be compelled to waive all right under the will, or to be made account for the slaves in question, before they can be entitled to any thing under the residuary bequest. Gift of the slave to the wife of Kennon, from her father, Thos. Berry, presumed from the circumstances and lapse of time --and yet Berry devised the offspring of this slave: and must he not acquiesce or abandon all claim under the will? *3 The circuit court was of a different opinion and made a decree giving to the complainants the relief prayed, without making them account for the two slaves. Decree of the circuit court. The principle, as a general one, is undeniable, that a devisee cannot claim under and adverse to a will at the same time. Acting upon this principle, courts of equity not unusually compel a devisee, if he will take advantage of a will, to take entirely, but not partially, under it. "A man, (Lord Chief Justice de Grey remarks,) may give by a mean and indirectly, what is not his either by express condition, or equity accruing from an implied condition. Where the testator has neglected, probably from ignorance, possibly from inattention to the nature of the estate, to insert such a condition, then a court of equity interposes;" 2 Fonblanque Eq. 225, note 1. In that note the annotator remarks, and refers to many adjudged cases, in support of his statements, "that whenever a testator has, by his will, disposed of the estate of another, to whom he has also, by his will, given other property, whether immediately, or remotely, or contingently, whether of value, or not of value, real or personal; the party shall not be permitted to enjoy any benefit under the will, without relinquishing his claim against it, but shall be put to his election." No one shall hold property against the devises in a will, and take under the will, but shall elect. We should, therefore, have no difficulty in saying that before the complainant could be entitled under the will, to any part of the estate mentioned in the residuary bequest, they should account for the slaves, if now in their possession, though those slaves of right, may have belonged to them at the date of the will; but it is in proof that in 1813, several years before the death of the testator and whilst Kennon believed himself the rightful owner of the slaves, he sold them to others, and having, therefore, bona fide disposed of them before the will, by the death of the testator could have any operation, it is contended that he should be permitted to claim under the will, without accounting for the slaves, which he has not, and which are not within his power to procure. Where the legatee whose property had been claimed by the testator and bequeathed in his will, had sold the property between the making of the will and testator's death, not knowing of the will, he shall account for but the value of the property, when sold, as the condition of his claim under the will. Owing to the sale of the slaves by Kennon, it is obvious that there cannot be a literal fulfilment of the testator's bequest, and as from any thing contained in the record, the sale does not appear to have been designed to defeat or thwart the intention of the testator, it would neither be right or equitable to suffer the sale of the slaves and the consequent inability of Kennon to produce them to the administrator, to work a forfeiture of the complainants right under the will. But the value of the slaves may be accounted for by the complainants, and it seems nothing more than equitable that they should be compelled so to account before they are permitted to take under the will, for by the sale Kennon has received a benefit from the slaves, which, if he had not sold he would be bound to surrender before he could take under the will, and that benefit, though in good faith received, should not be retained to the prejudice of others who, jointly with him, would be entitled to the slaves, if in his possession, upon his coming in and taking under the will. The value to be accounted for should, however, we think, be governed by the price for which the slaves were actually sold by Kennon, and not by what they might now be estimated to be worth. It is the sum for which the slaves were sold, and not their present value, that the complainants can, with any propriety be said to hold in opposition to the will. It is not the slaves but the price for which they were sold that is held by the complainants, and it is therefore the price, and not the present value, that should be charged against the complainants, in the account to be taken in the settlement and decree as to the residuary bequest. *4 The result is, that the decree must be reversed. But as the cause must return to the court below, it is proper to notice another error into which that court has fallen. It is this, that in taking an account of the value of the slaves, the value of the negro girl Lucy is made to form an item in the account, and Kennon is charged with her value in estimating his proportion, whereas Lucy is directed by the will to be, and has been emancipated, and was not one of the negroes intended to be divided among the legatees under the residuary bequest. An emancipated slave directed to be excluded from the account. With the exceptions adverted to, the decree is substantially correct. It must, however, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and a decree entered, not inconsistent with the principles of this opinion. Depew and Barry, for appellants; Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1828. Groves v. Kennon 6 T.B.Mon. 632, 22 Ky. 632, 1828 WL 1194 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
