(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 371,  9 Ky. 371 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1061 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Jouitt v. Samuel Simpson. Jun. 12, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BATH CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 237(2) 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(B) Parties 228k236 Judgment Against One or More Coparties 228k237 In  General 228k237(2) k. Judgment Against Defendant  Where Codefendant Is Not Served with Process. Most Cited Cases Where a joint action is brought on a joint obligation, and process is served on one defendant and returned not found as to the other, the return as to the defendant not found is not such as to authorize a separate judgment against the other defendant. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was a joint action brought upon a joint obligation by Simpson against Jouitt and Coleman. The process was served upon Jouitt, and as to Coleman, returned not found. Jouitt failing to appear, judgment by default was taken against him only, and no entry made either continuing or otherwise disposing of the cause as to Coleman. Jouitt brought the cause to this court, and the judgment of the circuit court was reversed on the grounds of the action being joint, and the return of the officer upon the process as to Coleman not being such as authorized a separate judgment against Jouitt. The cause being remanded it was again placed upon the docket of the circuit court, and an alias having issued, the sheriff returned as to Coleman, no inhabitant. Whereupon, the action as to him was abated; and Jouitt still failing to plead, judgment was again taken against him by default; and from that judgment Jouitt has appealed to this court. We have no doubt the proceedings and judgment are strictly correct. Until an entry, made in court, discontinuing the cause as to Coleman, in legal contemplation the action must be considered depending as to him and upon the cause being returned from this to the circuit court, it was strictly correct to cause an alias to issue for the purpose of having it either executed or returned by the sheriff in a manner which would authorize a judgment against Jouitt. It was not, however, necessary for the alias to be served upon Jouitt; for as he had been served with the original process, that service was as effectual to every legal purpose as if the alias had been served upon him. In a joint action against two, capias served on one and "no inhab??tant" returned as to the other, it is correct to dismiss as to one and take judgment v. the other:--Vide ante, Sneed against Wiester and al. acc. The judgment must be affirmed with cost and damages. Bibb, for appellant; Anderson, contra. Ky.App. 1820. Jouitt v. Simpson 2 A.K.Marsh. 371, 9 Ky. 371, 1820 WL 1061 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
