(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 568,  8 Ky. 568 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1086 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robert Tilford et al. v. Elijah Creel. Jun. 10, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE ADAIR COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 159 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k159 k. Summary Remedies. Most Cited Cases On a motion against a sheriff and his sureties to charge him for failure to pay a county creditor, a judgment for plaintiff cannot be sustained, where there is no evidence either that the sheriff was indebted to the county or of the persons named being in fact his sureties. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This court is of the opinion, as was decided in the case of Hobbs against the commonwealth, 3 Bibb, 322, that no person becoming a county creditor after the levy is laid can sustain a motion in his own name, against the delinquent collector and his securities, upon a bond given in pursuance of the act of March, 1797, concerning tithables, &c.  1 Littell, 678. But, it is also of opinion, that all county creditors, whether they become such either before or after the collection may be bound to pay the duties directed by law to be collected, may, according to the act of 1792, concerning sheriffs,  (1 Littell, 85,) sustain a motion in their own name against the sheriff and his sureties, upon their bond given in pursuance to that act. But on the trial of such a motion an ex parte order directing the sheriff to pay the creditor, though conclusive of the person named being a county creditor, it is insufficient to prove that the sheriff, at the time of the making the order, was indebted to the county. And to charge the persons named in the notice as sureties of the sheriff, evidence of their being such should, moreover, if contested, be introduced. On a bond given by a sheriff &c., under the act of '97  (1 Litt. 678), a county creditor becoming so after the date of the bond can not maintain a motion in his own name v. the sheriff, &c. Such motion may be maintained under the act of '92  (1 Litt. 85). The order directing the sheriff to pay the county creditor, is no evidence that the sheriff is indebted to the county. But there having been no evidence produced in this case. on the trial in the county court, either of the sheriff being indebted to the county, or the persons named being in fact his sureties, the judgment must be reversed with cost, and the cause remanded to that court, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. To charge the persons denominated securities, they must be proved to be so, if that fact be contested. Bibb for appellant, B. Hardin for appellee. Ky.App. 1819. Tilford v. Creel 1 A.K.Marsh. 568, 8 Ky. 568, 1819 WL 1086 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
