(Cite as: 4 Bibb 451,  7 Ky. 451 (Ky.),  1816 WL 821 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Blanchard, etc. v. Kenton. Nov. 25, 1816. *1 A Court of Equity will not sustain a bill for relief, if from the allegations it appears that the complainant has a remedy at law. After the debt for which a mortgage on a negro was given is paid, the mortgagor may maintain an action at law to recover the negro. It is competent to prove by parol evidence that a bill of sale absolute on its face, was only to operate as a mortgage. West Headnotes Mortgages 266 k 187.1 266 Mortgages 266IV Rights and Liabilities of Parties 266k187 Possession or Control of Property 266k187.1 k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 266k187) A mortgagor may recover his property at law after paying the mortgage. Chattel Mortgages 76 k 38 76 Chattel Mortgages 76I Requisites and Validity 76I(A) Nature and Essentials of Transfers of Chattels as Security 76k35 Evidence as to Character of Transaction or  Instrument 76k38 k. Parol Evidence. Most Cited  Cases A bill of sale absolute on its face may be shown by parol evidence to have been intended as a mortgage. Chattel Mortgages 76 k 172(1) 76 Chattel Mortgages 76IV Rights and Liabilities of Parties 76k171 Actions for Possession of Property 76k172 Between Parties to Mortgage 76k172(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A mortgagor may maintain an action at law to recover the chattel after he has paid the mortgage. Chattel Mortgages 76 k 293 76 Chattel Mortgages 76X Redemption 76k293 k. Right to Redeem in General. Most Cited Cases A chattel mortgage, after default of the mortgagor, is defeasible only when equity will permit him to redeem notwithstanding the default. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases A mortgagor, after the payment of a debt for which a mortgage was given, cannot maintain a bill in equity to recover the property from a person to whose possession it has been transferred, as complainant has an adequate remedy at law. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was an appeal from a decree of the Court below entered in favor of the appellee in a suit brought by him in that Court against the appellant. The bill in substance charges, that William Kenton, the appellee, being indebted to Simon Kenton, the appellant, in 1785 executed to him an absolute bill of sale for a negro woman named Priss; but that it was at the time understood and agreed between them that William should continue to hold the possession of the negro, and that the bill of sale, though absolute upon its face, should have the force of a mortgage only, to secure the payment of the debt due to Simon, and subject at any time to a redemption upon the payment of the debt: that William accordingly held the possession of the negro for a number of years thereafter, and while he was so possessed, in 1798 paid the debt to Simon; and supposing the bill of sale no longer operative, failed to have it canceled; that sometime thereafter Simon Kenton executed a deed of trust for the negro to John Kenton who, without the assent of William, obtained the possession of her, and thereafter in virtue of the trust sold her and her children to the appellant Blanchard for a valuable consideration, but who the bill charges had full knowledge of the payment by William to Simon before his purchase. The bill, moreover, after stating various interrogatories for the appellants to answer, asks for a restoration of the negroes, a compensation for their services, and for a cancelment of the bill of sale. *2 Assuming as true every allegation contained in the bill, no reason can be perceived for the interposition of a Court of Equity. Although the appellants are called upon to answer various interrogatories, yet as the bill contains no suggestion of an inability in the appellee to prove by other evidence the facts charged, it cannot be denominated a bill of discovery, but must be considered as an original bill filed for relief. As a bill of that character, we are clearly of opinion it cannot be maintained. If it be true the negro woman was mortgaged by William to Simon Kenton, and that William has since paid the money for which the mortgage was given, it is perfectly clear that William, upon making the payment, became vested with the legal right to the negroes, and as such had a perfect and adequate remedy at law to recover them from any person in whose possession they might be.--5 Com. Dig. 99. The circumstance of the bill of sale, which is charged in the bill to have been understood by the parties to have the operation of a mortgage only, being absolute upon its face, cannot, we apprehend, in any wise tend to translate the contest from a Court of Law to a Court of Equity. The rules of evidence are certainly the same in both Courts; and if it would be competent in a Court of Equity by the introduction of parol evidence to prove the bill of sale a mortgage, it would be equally so in a Court of Law; and if competent in a Court of Law, the mortgage, when proven, must of necessity be subject to all the legal consequences of other mortgages, and consequently liable to be defeated by proof of the payment of the money for which it was given Nor can it have been necessary to resort to a Court of Equity for the purpose of obtaining a cancelment of the writing: for if, as is charged, it be considered a mortgage, and if, as we have shown, by so considering it the payment of the money gave the appellee a legal right to the negroes, that right most indubitably might be asserted in a Court of Law without an actual canceiment of the writing. The decree of the Court below giving relief to the appellee must, therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and the bill dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Blanchard v. Kenton 4 Bibb 451, 7 Ky. 451, 1816 WL 821 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
