(Cite as: 4 Litt. 286,  14 Ky. 286 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1284 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Roberts, &c. v. Tennell. Nov. 27, 1823. *1 FROM THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JAMES CLARK SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 339 302 Pleading 302XIV Withdrawal 302k339 k. In General. Most Cited Cases After issue joined on special pleas at one term, the party cannot claim a right to plead the general issue at a subsequent term. Replevin 335 k 64 335 Replevin 335VII Pleading 335k64 k. Avowry or Cognizance and Plea Thereto. Most Cited Cases The plaintiff in replevin may plead several pleas to the cognizance of the defendant. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 98(1) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k98 Process, Judgment, or Order of Court as Protection from Liability 353k98(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases An officer, executing a distress warrant from a justice of the peace, is justified by the warrant, whether any rent was due or not. TALBOT for appellant; HARDIN and SHARP for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action of replevin, brought in the circuit court by Tennell against Roberts and Hain, for the taking of a horse beast. The plaintiff in replevin may plead several pleas to the cognizance of the defendant. Hain made cognizance, by acknowledging the taking of the horse, but insisting that the taking was lawful, as he acted under a warrant of distress which issued from a justice of the peace for rent which was in arrear and owing by Tennell to his co-defendant, Robert, &c. To the cognizance made by Hain, Tennell pleaded, 1st, that he did not enjoy or hold as tenant, the tenement and appurtenances in the cognizance of Hain mentioned, under any demise from the defendant Roberts, as in the cognizance set forth, &c.; and 2d, that no part of the supposed rent in the said cognizance mentioned, was in arrear from him the said Tennell, &c. to the said Roberts, in manner and form as in the cognizance is alleged, &c. After issue has been joined on special pleas in bar at one term, the party has no right to plead the general issue at a subsequent term; the court may permit him to do so, in their discretion, but he can not claim it as a right. To the filing of these pleas the defendants objected, but their objections were overruled, and issues were taken to the country on each plea. At the time of making up the issues, an agreement was entered of record by the parties, allowing Roberts to give in evidence any thing which he could avow in his own right, by the facts stated in the cognizance of Hain; and allowing Tennell to repel by evidence any thing which could be replied to such an avowry. A constable executing a distress warrant from a justice of the peace, is justified by the warrant, whether any rent was due or not. *2 Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the court, in overruling the objections of the defendants to the pleas of the plaintiff Tennell; and the first question proper for this court to notice, involves the correctness of the decision of the court overruling the objections to the pleas. The objection was taken to those pleas exclusively, on the ground that the plaintiff could not, consistently with the principles of law, file but one plea to the matter contained in the cognizance made by Hain. The objection no doubt ought to have been availing, were it not for a provision contained in the act of the legislature of this country; but the act to which we allude, expressly authorizes the plaintiff in replevin, to plead as many several matters, either of law or fact, as he may think proper, and it is impossible to give any operation to that provision of the act, unless the court below was correct in overruling the objections of the defendants to the filing of both pleas. At a subsequent term, after the issues were made up to each of those pleas, the defendants, Hain and Roberts, each offered to plead the general issue, together with other pleas; but the court refused to allow any additional pleas to be filed; and the next question presented for the consideration of this court, involves the correctness of that refusal. It was unquestionably not a matter of strict legal right, for the defendant to file any additional pleas, at a term subsequent to that at which the issues were joined, and the agreement entered of record for other matter to be given in evidence. After the issues were made up, the filing of other pleas, was a matter in the sound discretion of the court, and there is nothing contained in the bill of exceptions taken to the court's refusal to permit other pleas to be filed, conducing in the slightest measure to shew the discretion of the court has been abused. In refusing to give the defendants permission to file the additional pleas, therefore, this court can not say the court below erred. At a subsequent term, however, the defendant Hain, was permitted to plead the general issue, and by agreement, was allowed to give in evidence any matter which could be specifically pleaded; and the trial was had in the court below on that issue, as well as the issues previously made up by the parties. In the progress of the trial, a motion was made by the counsel of the defendants, for various instructions to the jury, all of which were refused by the court. It appears that a distress warrant, which was issued by a justice of the peace, on the application of the defendant, Roberts, and directed to the defendant, Hain, commanding him, as constable, to distrain the property of Tennell, and in virtue of which the horse beast of Tennell was taken by Hain, was given in evidence, and the court was asked to instruct the jury that the warrant was a justification for Hain, though they might be of opinion that no rent was due from Tennell when Roberts obtained the warrant from the justice. *3 The instruction, we think, ought to have been given to the jury. The act of the legislature of this country, (2 Dig. L. K. 1059), after making it the duty of justices of the peace to issue a warrant, on the application of a landlord, directing the sheriff or constable to distrain the property of the tenant, expressly provides, that by virtue of such warrant the sheriff or constable shall be authorized, and is required to distrain on the goods, chattels and slaves of the tenant, &c. Now, as the act has not only declared the warrant to be the officer's authority to take the property of the person against whom it issues, but has moreover required the officer, in obedience to the mandate of the warrant, to distrain the property, it would seem necessarily to follow, that the officer must be justified by the warrant, though the landlord may have caused it to issue when there was in fact no rent due to him. It would, indeed, be contrary to all the analogies of the law, to make an officer acting in obedience to the injunctions of the law, under a process emanating from competent authority, responsible for the improper act of the person at whose instance the process issued. If, at the time of causing the warrant to issue, Tennell was not in arrear any rent to Roberts, he is, no doubt, entitled to recover for the injury sustained by the irregular distress; but, as the wrong was done by Roberts, and not by Hain, the recovery should be had against Roberts; and, for that purpose, it was strictly correct for Tennell to unite Roberts in his action. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Roberts v. Tennell 4 Litt. 286, 14 Ky. 286, 1823 WL 1284 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
