(Cite as: 3 Bibb 93,  6 Ky. 93 (Ky.),  1813 WL 612 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Carlyle and Offut v. Patterson. Jun. 27, 1813. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 226(1) 343 Sales 343V Operation and Effect 343V(C) Rights and Liabilities of Buyer as to Third Persons 343k226 Title and Rights in General 343k226(1) k. Requisites and Validity of Contract of  Sale. Most Cited Cases Possession of slaves should be received as prima facie evidence of the right to sell. Tenancy in Common 373 k 38(1) 373 Tenancy in Common 373II Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities of Cotenants 373k38 Actions Between Cotenants 373k38(1) k. Right of Action in General. Most Cited  Cases One tenant in common cannot maintain detinue against the other, since neither is entitled to exclusive possession. Detinue 126 k 8 126 Detinue 126k8 k. Defenses. Most Cited Cases In detinue for negroes, where both parties claim title from the same person, the defendant cannot question the title of that person. Joint Tenancy 226 k 8 226 Joint Tenancy 226k7 Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities of Joint Tenants 226k8 k. In General. Most Cited Cases The circumstance of one joint tenant's taking bills of sale in his own name for property purchased for the joint use of himself and his cotenant cannot affect the right of the latter. Joint Tenancy 226 k 13 226 Joint Tenancy 226k11 Rights and Liabilities of Joint Tenants as to Third Persons 226k13 k. Sale and Conveyance of Joint Property. Most Cited Cases A sale made by one joint tenant cannot devest his cotenant of his interest in the property. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. The Chief Justice absent. *1 THIS appeal is prosecuted by the appellants from a judgment recovered against them in an action of detinue, which they prosecuted in the Court below to recover six negroes, which the appellee held in his possession. Both parties derive title from the same origin. The appellee claims an interest in them as tenant in common with the appellants, under a contract or agreement with Warren Offut, from whom they derive title by purchase. A trial was had on the general issue, and verdict and judgment obtained by the appellee. To prove title to two of the negroes the appellants produced a bill of sale from William Lee, administrator of the estate of Henry Lee, deceased, and having produced no evidence of William Lee being the administrator, but his own deposition, the Court, on the motion of the appellee, instructed the jury that the appellants could not recover the two negroes purchased from Lee. In detinue for negroes both parties claiming title from the same person, the defendant cannot question the title of that person. Possession of slave should be received as prima facie evidence of the right of the person possessed to sell. One joint tenant or tenant in common cannot maintain detinue against his cotenant for property to which both have title. A sale made by one joint tenant cannot divest his co-tenant of his interest in the property. The circumstance of one joint tenant's taking bills of sale in his own name for property purchased for their joint use, cannot affect the right of the partner. Whether that instruction of the Court was erroneous, is, therefore, in the first place, necessary to inquire. We are of opinion that it is. In a contest between those deducing title under the purchase from William Lee, an inquiry into his authority to sell cannot be indispensable: but if it were his having possession of the negroes should be received as prima facie evidence of his right to sell, and from which the jury might have inferred title. For the Court, under such circumstances, to instruct the jury the appellants could not recover, was assuming the trial of facts as well as the law, which was certainly inadmissible and erroneous. But it is urged this error is cured by the Court in the further progress of the cause instructing the jury that if they were of opinion, from the evidence, that Warren Offut, from whom the appellants purchased, was in possession of the slaves in the declaration mentioned, at the time of the appellants' purchase, that it was prima facie evidence of his title to the slaves, and that it was not necessary for them to support their title by proof of title in those from whom Warren Offut purchased, unless the appellee set up a conflicting title, or unless Warren Offut's possession was obtained by fraud. We think these instructions did not cure the error first committed by the Court. They contain no expressions correcting the opinion which was given by the Court in their first instructions. Both instructions, under a certain state of facts which were to be ascertained by the jury, are reconcilable and will stand together. The latter instructions could have no effect with the jury, unless they were of opinion Warren Offut has obtained a fair possession, unaccompanied by fraud. But what if the jury should be of opinion he did not hold such a possession? The answer is obvious, from the instructions, that the possession of Warren Offut must be supported by proof of title in those from whom he purchased: and if the jury, in their examination of the facts, should be of opinion such proof of title was necessary, the instruction first given by the Court would properly apply, and influence their decision against the right of the appellants, as to the two negroes purchased from Lee. Hence it results the error committed by the Court in the instructions first given to the jury, is not cured. *2 Other questions were made by the assignment of errors, none of which are deemed necessary to be decided in determining this cause. But as some of them may again occur on the trial which will be had in the Court below, it may not be improper to remark, that should the evidence prove the appellants and appellee to be joint tenants or tenants in common in the negroes in question, the appellants' action cannot be maintained: for the rule is settled, that one tenant in common or joint tenant cannot maintain detinue against his co-tenant, for property to which both have title. And if, as seems to be contended by the appellee, he was a joint partner with Warren Offut in the purchase of the negroes, and not in their sales, it results that he thereby acquired a joint estate with him in the negroes, not liable to be divested by the sale of Offut. Nor can the circumstance of Offut's taking the bills of sale in his own name from the persons of whom he purchased, affect the right of the appellee to an interest in the negroes, if he establishes satisfactorily an agreement with Offut to have a joint interest therein: for the bills of sale form no evidence of an agreement between Offut and the appellee, but are admissible only to show Warren Offut purchased the negroes; and whether the appellee is entitled to, or has any interest in them, must depend on extrinsic evidence of an agreement with Offut. The argument of the appellants' counsel, that the bills of sale vested the legal title of the negroes in Warren Offut, and that the right of the appellee, if any, is in equity, and not at law, cannot avail, if the appellee proves an agreement of partnership with Offut in the purchase of the negroes: for a writing is not essential to transfer the right of a slave under a contract; and a parol contract between the appellee and Warren Offut, would as effectually vest in the appellee a legal right in the negroes, as the bill of sale taken by Offut would vest in him the right of those from whom he purchased. But if a partnership existed between Warren Offut and the appellee, as well in the sale as the purchase of the negroes, it is evident that a sale by Offut, as a partner, made without fraud, would vest in the appellants a good title to the negroes. But if the sale was fraudulent, the right of the appellee cannot be divested, although a partnership may be proven to exist between Warren Offut and the appellee, as well in the sale as purchase of the negroes. We are, however, of opinion the judgment of the Circuit Court on the first ground mentioned, was erroneous and must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded for a new trial to be had according to the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1813. Carlyle v. Patterson 3 Bibb 93, 6 Ky. 93, 1813 WL 612 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
