(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 16,  17 Ky. 16 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1467 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Speed's Executors v. Hann. Oct. 6, 1824. *1 Executors, &c., Amendments, Error, Merger. ERROR TO THE MERCER CIRCUIT; WILLIAM L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 310 228 Judgment 228VIII Amendment, Correction, and Review in Same Court 228k310 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases Where a judgment against executors, upon a covenant of the testator, is, by clerical error, entered de bonis propriis, instead of de bonis testatoris, the error may be corrected by the court at any time. Appeal and Error 30 k 653(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(J) Defects, Objections, Amendments, and Corrections 30k652 Amendment in Appellate Court 30k653 Authority 30k653(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A court of error may amend an error apparent on the record if there is anything to amend by. Appeal and Error 30 k 1162 30 Appeal and Error 30XVII Determination and Disposition of Cause 30XVII(D) Reversal 30k1157 On Hearing in General 30k1162 k. Error Corrected in Lower Court or Before Hearing  on Appeal. Most Cited Cases If, pending a writ of error, a judgment be properly amended in the court below, the error so corrected will not afterwards be considered in the appellate court. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. On the 25th of February, 1805, the testator, James Speed, and John Hann, exchanged tracts of land, whereby, in consideration of a tract in Mercer county, received from Hann, the testator, Speed delivered to Hann a tract in Garrard, and by an article of agreement, signed and sealed by the parties, of that date, and containing the terms of exchange more at large, the tract of Speed in the county of Garrard is described to contain two hundred and seven acres, and by a stipulation contained in the articles of agreement, Speed on his part covenanted that if the Garrard tract should contain less than two hundred and seven acres, he would pay said Hann at the rate of fifty shilling per acre, for the deficiency. After this, on the 22d of May, 1805, the testator, James Speed, executed to Hann a deed of conveyance for the Garrard tract, therein describing it to contain two hundred and nine acres, more or less, and setting out the metes and bounds at large; but in this deed there is no covenant or warranty as to the quantity of acres. Subsequent to the execution of this deed, Speed departed this life, and Hann brought an action of covenant upon the articles of agreement, against his executors. The declaration sets out as much of the covenant as is necessary for the purpose of the action, and contains an allegation averring the Garrard tract which Speed gave in exchange, to contain but one hundred and ninety-three acres, instead of two hundred and seven acres, the quantity stipulated for by Speed in the articles of agreement. *2 Covenants performed, was pleaded by one of the executors, and by an agreement of the parties, he was allowed to avail himself, in defense, of any matter which might be regularly pleaded. Upon the trial, the articles of agreement were read in evidence to the jury by Hann; and after he had proved the deficiency in the quantity of acres, as charged in his declaration, the executor read in evidence the deed of conveyance which was executed by the testator for the Garrard tract, and to which reference has been already made, and moved the court to instruct the jury, that if they were satisfied from the evidence, that the deed of conveyance was for the same land in the original article of agreement mentioned, and the plaintiff (Hann) received said deed, that the original contract was merged in said deed of conveyance, and that the plaintiff's right of action, if any, would grow out of the deed of conveyance, and that he could not recover upon the original contract; and also, to instruct the jury, that the deed from James Speed, the testator, for two hundred and nine acres of land, before referred to, supported the plea of covenants performed; and, moreover, to instruct the jury, that if they gave interest, they should not go further back in their calculations, than the date of the writ; but the motion was overruled, and each of the instructions as asked, refused by the court. A verdict was found by the jury in favor of Hann, and judgment de bonis propiis entered against the executors. To reverse that judgment, the executors have prosecuted this writ of error with supersedeas. (1.) The judgment was, no doubt, incorrectly entered against the executors. The suit was brought against them upon the covenant of their testator, and in strict propriety the judgment ought to have been entered de bonis testatoris, and not de bonis propiis. If, therefore, the judgment now stood as it was originally entered, we should have no hesitation in reversing it. (1) Judgment against executors on the covenants of their testator must be de bonis testatoris, and if de bonis propriis it will for that error be reversed-- Arg. (2.) But the judgment does not remain as it was originally entered. Since the writ of error was sued out in this case, Hann applied to the court below, and obtained an order correcting the error, and the judgment now stands correctly in that court, against the executors de bonis testatoris. So that unless, as was contended in argument, it was incompetent for the court to amend the judgment, the irregularity in the entry first made must be adjudged unavailing in this court. (2) If, pending a writ of error, a judgment be properly amended in the court below, the error so corrected will not afterwards avail in the appellate court. (3.) Were the irregularity in entering the first judgment admitted to be an error in the judgment of the court, it would follow as a necessary consequence, that the court below possessed no competent authority to make the amendment; for that amendment was made at a term subsequent to that at which the original judgment was entered; and no principle is better settled, and none more amply supported by authority, than that which forbids courts amending or correcting errors in their own judgments, after the lapse of the term in which they were rendered. *3 (3) A court can not rectify an error in rendering judgment, after the end of the term. (4.) But if, instead of being error in the judgment of the court, the irregularity in entering the first judgment be a clerical misprison, the principle is equally well settled, that it is amendable by the court of original jurisdiction, though a writ of error be sued ou?? to the judgment in this court. (4) A clerical misprision in entering a judgment, may be amended after writ of error sued out. (5.) And that the error in entering the judgment must be ascribed to the mistake of the clerk, and as such amendable, is fully established by the case of Short v. Coffin's executor, 5 Burrow, 2730. That was a case in which the judgment had been entered against the executor de bonis propiis. and after a writ of error had been brought, and in nullo est erratum pleaded, and argument, the judgment was amended by making it de bonis testatoris. (5) The entry of a judgment de bonis propriis, which ought to be de bonis testatoris, is a clerical misprision, and amendable. Whilst delivering the opinion of the court, Lord Mansfield observed, that "this is not an error in the judgment of the court in point of law, but a mere mistake of the clerk;" and in support of that opinion, referred to a case in 2 Levi. 22, where the same principle had been adopted. Having disposed of the objections taken to the manner in which the judgment was entered, we shall notice the questions which were made in the court below, on the motion of the executor for instructions to the jury. (6.) That the court was correct in refusing to give the first branch of the instructions asked, is too obvious to require elucidation by argument. The deed of conveyance is an instrument of no greater dignity, in contemplation of law, than the articles of agreement which were signed, sealed and delivered by the parties; and it is utterly incompatible with the established doctrine of the law, to suppose that one instrument of writing could be merged in another of the same dignity, or that by receiving the deed of conveyance, which contains no covenant or warranty as to the quantity of acres, any right of action which may have accrued to Hann upon the stipulation for quantity, in the articles or agreement, could be made to grow out of the deed of conveyance. (6) The deed conveying land is of no greater dignity than the articles to convey; therefore, they do not merge in it. (7.) Nor can we admit that the court erred in refusing to instruct the jury that the execution of the deed of conveyance by Speed, was such a compliance with the stipulations of the articles of agreement, as to support the plea of covenants performed. The execution of that deed was, no doubt, a performance of the stipulation of Speed, contained in the articles of agreement, to convey the Garrard tract; but the quantity of acres conveyed, is proved to be less than the quantity sold, and it is impossible to perceive how the execution of a deed for a less quantity, can have performed the covenant contained in the article, to pay for the deficiency in the quantity. *4 (7) A covenant contained in an agreement for the conveyance of a tract of land, to pay for what it may lack of a certain quantity, is not performed by conveying the land, describing it to contain that quantity, if it do not in fact contain it. (8.) And with respect to the refusal of the court to instruct the jury as to the calculation of interest, we have been incapable of discerning the principle upon which the counsel of the executors can have predicated his hopes of success. If, in point of fact, the quantity of acres in the Garrard tract is less than two hundred and seven, there was such a breach of the covenant of Speed for quantity, as would have authorized a recovery long before the date of the writ, and of course, the time of suing out the writ can not fix the date to which the jury should have been confined in making their calculation. (8) Interest, from what date to be computed. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs and damages. Haggin, for plaintiffs; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Speed's Ex'rs v. Hann 1 T.B.Mon. 16, 17 Ky. 16, 1824 WL 1467 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 78 END OF DOCUMENT
