(Cite as: 4 Bibb 321,  7 Ky. 321 (Ky.),  1816 WL 743 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Key v. Moore. Apr. 18, 1816. *1 Amendment permitted at a subsequent term, in judgment as to the interest, by reference to the note filed. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 315 228 Judgment 228VIII Amendment, Correction, and Review in Same Court 228k315 k. Source of Amendment or Correction. Most Cited Cases The court at a subsequent term may amend a recital in the judgment as to interest, where it appears to have been merely a clerical misprision and it can be made by reference to the note filed. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. M'KEY brought a petition and summons against Moore, to recover the amount of an obligation which from the copy in the petition purports to bear interest from the date in 1806; and upon calling the suit for trial, Moore, as appears from the entry in the minute book, confessed judgment per specialty, but in entering the judgment upon on the order book the interest is not made to commence until 1810. At a subsequent term to that wherein judgment was entered, M'Key moved the Court to correct the judgment so as to accord with the minutes, by making the interest commence from the date of the obligation; but the Court supposing they had no power to allow such an amendment, overruled the motion, and M'Key having excepted to that opinion, has brought the case before this Court by writ of error. The great difficulty that often occurs in determining between what properly speaking are clerical misprisions and the judgment of a Court, frequently produces much perplexity in deciding whether amendments are or are not allowable. But whenever the error complained of is ascertained to consist in the misprision of the clerk, and not in the judgment of the Court, and there exists anything in the record by which it can be corrected, according to a current of decisions both in this country and England, the amendment should be made. In the present case there certainly exists enough in the record to amend by, and as we suppose the error to be merely a clerical misprision, the Court below should have permitted the amendment. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and the amendment made. Ky.App. 1816. McKey v. Moore 4 Bibb 321, 7 Ky. 321, 1816 WL 743 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
