(Cite as: 5 Litt. 305,  15 Ky. 305 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1437 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Frame v. Smith. Jun. 7, 1824. *1 FROM THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 120(1) 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k118 Execution and Enforcement of Judgment 142k120 Writ of Possession 142k120(1) k. Right to Writ in General. Most Cited  Cases Where an occupant, against whom judgment of eviction has been rendered, has a crop growing on the land at the time the successful claimant elects to pay the sum adjudged due for improvements, he cannot be evicted until he has had opportunity to gather it;  but the crop must be growing on lands improved by himself. Ejectment 142 k 120(1) 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k118 Execution and Enforcement of Judgment 142k120 Writ of Possession 142k120(1) k. Right to Writ in General. Most Cited  Cases Where a successful claimant pays into court the amount reported against him, under the occupying claimant law, he is entitled to a writ of possession. HANSON and SHARP for Frame; HAGGIN, HUSTON and WICKLIFFE for Smith. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Smith having recovered judgment against Frame, for a tract of land in the county of Clarke, commissioners were appointed to assess the value of improvements, &c. under the law concerning occupying claimants to land. A successful claimant under the occupying claimant law, electing to pay the amount reported against him, and paying it into court, has a right to his writ of possession. The commissioners performed the duties assigned them, and reported to court. Frame excepted to the report, but his exceptions were overruled. Smith then elected to pay the amount reported against him by the commissioners, and judgment would have been thereupon rendered by the court, had Frame not refused to accept a judgment. After the refusal of Frame to accept a judgment, Smith paid the amount reported against him into court, and moved the court for a writ of habere facias possessionem upon the judgment. The motion of Smith was opposed by Frame, but the writ was awarded by the court. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the court, and the evidence produced on the motion, made part of the record. Whether or not the writ of possession ought to have been awarded, is the sole question presented for determination. Against awarding the writ of possession, it was objected in the court below: 1st. That as no judgment was rendered upon the report of the commissioners, Frame could not be regularly dispossessed of the land for which Smith recovered judgment. Where an occupant has a crop growing on the land recovered, at the time the successful claimant elects to pay for the improvements, he can not be turned out of possession, until he has had time to gather it; but not where the crop is growing on a part improved by a person claiming under the successful claimant. *2 2d. That Frame had a growing crop upon the land, and time to gather and remove the crop, ought to be given him, before the writ could regularly be awarded. The first objection was taken under the twelfth section of the act of January, 1812, 2 Dig. L. K. 960. According to that section, it would no doubt have been irregular in the court to award the writ before entering judgment in favor of Frame upon the report of the commissioners, if the amount reported in his favor, had not been paid into court by Smith, and Frame had not refused to accept a judgment for the amount. But after the refusal of Frame to accept of judgment, surely the payment of the amount into court by Smith, should be considered equivalent to any bond which he could have given for the payment, and it is only until bond is executed by the successful claimant, for the amount reported by the commissioners in favor of the occupant, that the occupant is protected by the section referred to, against being dispossessed or evicted by a writ of possession. The first objection was, therefore, properly overruled. The second objection was taken under the first section of the act of February, 1819, 2 Dig. L. K. 963. If, at the time Smith elected to pay for the improvements, there had been a crop growing upon any part of the land improved by Frame, it would have been in direct opposition to this section of the act, to award a writ of possession for that part of the land upon which the crop was so growing, without giving Frame time to gather and remove the crop; but such is not the present case. There was, it is true, a crop growing upon part of the land for which Smith recovered judgment at the time he elected to pay for the improvements; but instead of being improved by Frame, it is in proof, that the land upon which the crop was growing, was cleared and put into a state of cultivation by a person who entered upon the land claiming under Smith, after the judgment was recovered by Smith. The value of the improvements which were thus made upon the land, by a person claiming under Smith, could not, therefore, have been charged by the commissioners in account against Smith, and we understand the section of the act of 1819, as containing no protection to Frame against an eviction from the land which was so improved, though he may have had a crop growing thereon when Smith made his election to pay for the improvements. The order awarding the writ of possession, affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1824. Frame v. Smith 5 Litt. 305, 15 Ky. 305, 1824 WL 1437 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
