(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 449,  20 Ky. 449 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1457 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Majors v. Gunnell. Apr. 23, 1827. *1 Jurisdiction. Parties to Actions at Law. Process. Statutes. New Trial. Costs. ERROR TO THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT; BENJ. SHACKLEFORD, JUDGE. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 161(2) 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k161 Conditions on Granting or Refusing New Trial 275k161(2) k. Payment of Costs, Expenses, and Attorney Fees  in General. Most Cited Cases Where the court should ex officio have dismissed an action against nonresidents of the county in which the action was brought, on the finding of a verdict in favor of the defendants residing in the county, it was error to charge the nonresident defendants with the payment of costs on granting them a new trial on their own motion. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Gunnell brought an action of detinue in the Christian circuit court, against William T. Major, Joseph Major, Thomas Major and Olive T. Major; the two latter, at the commencement of the action, residing in the county of Franklin, and the two former residing in the county of Christian. Action by Gunnell v. the Majors, resident part in Christian and balance in Franklin. Writs were directed to the sheriff of each county, and executed upon all the defendants in the county in which they respectively reside. The defendants all appeared to the action and pleaded the general issue severally. The jury found both the defendants who reside in Christian not guilty, and returned a verdict in favor of Gunnell, against the two defendants who reside in Franklin. Verdict for the Christian, and against the Franklin defendants. The Franklin defendants then moved the court for a new trial; to the granting of which Gunnell consented; and the counsel for the defendants thereupon asked leave of the court to withdraw their motion; but the court refused to permit them to do so, and awarded a new trial, and rendered judgment against the defendants for costs. Motion of the defendants found against, for a new trial--consented to by plaintiff-leave asked to withdraw motion for new trial, refused, and new trial granted, and judgment for costs. Gunnell then moved the court for a new trial as to the Christian defendants, in favor of whom the jury had found a verdict; but his motion was overruled. After this, upon the motion of the Franklin defendants, the court, in pursuance of the provisions of the act of Assembly upon that subject, 1 Dig. L. K. 264, rendered judgment, dismissing the action as to them. But there was no entry made upon the record, setting aside the judgment for cost, which was awarded against the defendants upon granting the new trial. Motion by plaintiff for a new trial as to the defendants acquitted, overruled. To reverse that judgment for cost, this writ of error is prosecuted. Judgment dismissing the action. It was unquestionably wrong, after the jury had found for the Christian defendants, for the court to enter any judgment against the Franklin defendants. The action having been brought in the county of Christian, the court was imperatively bound, after the jury found a verdict in favor of the defendants residing in that county, not to enter judgment against the defendants residing in another county, and should, ex officio, have dismissed the action as to them, without subjecting them to cost. It was the duty of the court to do so without setting aside the verdict of the jury against the Franklin defendants; and of course, when the new trial was awarded, those defendants ought not to have been subjected to the payment of cost, though the application to set aside the verdict was made by them. *2 Where in an action against residents of different counties, all on whom process was served where suit was commenced are acquitted, the court ought, ex officio, to dismiss the action-- --Costs should not be adjudged against defendant in such case who unnecessarily moves for a new trial. The judgment for cost must, therefore, be reversed with cost. Crittenden, for plaintiffs; Mayes, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Majors v. Gunnell 4 T.B.Mon. 449, 20 Ky. 449, 1827 WL 1457 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
