(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 229,  9 Ky. 229 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1001 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lindsay's Heirs v. M'Cormack et al. Apr. 19, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE SCOTT CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 303(4) 409 Wills 409V Probate or Contest of Will 409V(M) Evidence 409k299 Weight and Sufficiency 409k303 Testimony of Attesting  Witnesses 409k303(4) k. Necessity of proof by all of the  attesting witnesses. Most Cited Cases Wills 409 k 421 409 Wills 409V Probate or Contest of Will 409V(R) Operation and Effect 409k421 k. Collateral attack on probate or judgment. Most  Cited Cases Though the statute of wills requires two subscribing witnesses, unless wholly written by the testator, a will may be admitted to record on the oath of one; and, if so admitted, he will be presumed to have testified to every fact necessary to legalize the record. Wills 409 k 598 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(E) Nature of Estates and Interests Created 409k596 Fee Simple 409k598 k. Devise without words of limitation. Most  Cited Cases If a testator manifest, in his will, an expectation that the devisee of land is to receive a title from the government in his own name, a fee passes without words of inheritance. Wills 409 k 599 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(E) Nature of Estates and Interests Created 409k596 Fee Simple 409k599 k. Implication in general. Most Cited  Cases Where a devise imposes a personal charge on the devisee, a fee passes without words of inheritance. Courts 106 k 30 106 Courts 106I Nature, Extent, and Exercise of Jurisdiction in General 106I(A) In General 106k30 k. Loss or divestiture of jurisdiction. Most Cited  Cases A jurisdiction to grant probate of a will, having once attached, will not be defeated by a subsequent division of the county. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment rendered in favor of the appellees in an action of ejectment, brought against them in the circuit court by the appellants. On the trial in that court, the appellants attempted to derive title to land in contest, as heirs at law to Joseph Lindsay, deceased, but for the purpose of showing the heirs had no title, and that the appellees, claiming under Ann M'Ginty, formerly Ann Lindsay, widow of the said Joseph were invested with the title, they introduced as evidence a copy of the will of said Joseph, taken from the record of the county court of Lincoln, together with the certificates of probate thereto annexed. *2 The admission of the copy was opposed by the appellants, on the ground of the will not being regularly proven, but the objection was overruled and the copy used in evidence. After the evidence was all gone through, it was agreed by the parties, that if the jury should be of opinion that the will of Joseph Lindsay was duly executed, they should find a verdict for the appellees, subject, however, to the opinion of the court on the legal import of the will, and if the court should be of opinion that Ann Lindsay was entitled to but a life estate under the will, judgment should be entered for the appellants, but if the court should be of opinion she was entitled to an estate of inheritance, judgment should be entered for the appellees. A verdict was accordingly found for the appellees, and the court being of opinion the will gave to Ann Lindsay an estate in fee, rendered judgment upon the verdict in favor of the appellees. In deciding this contest, two questions are presented--1. Did the court err in admitting the will in evidence?--And, if not, 2. What is the nature of the estate devised therein to Ann Lindsay? The following are the certificates of probate annexed to the transcript of the will, made out by the clerk of the Lincoln county court. "At a court holden for Lincoln county, the 21st of January, 1783, this instrument of writing was exhibited in court as the last will and testament of Joseph Lindsay, deceased and proved by the oath of John Ray, the only surviving witness, and ordered to be recorded.--Teste, William May, C. C." At a county court held for Lincoln county, on Monday, the 10th day of April, 1815, the last will and testament of Joseph Lindsay, deceased, which was heretofore proven by John Ray, one of the subscribing witnesses, was this day again exhibited in court, and John M'Kee and James M'Cullough and Samuel Dennis were sworn, who declared on oath, that they believe the will to be entirely in the hand writing of said Joseph, deceased, and it was also proven to the court that John Kennedy, the other subscribing witness to the said will, was killed at the battle of the Blue Licks; whereupon it was ordered that the said will be admitted to record, &c.--Test, Thos. Helm, c. l. c. c. It was admitted that at the time of the testator's decease, he resided in the county of Lincoln; but it is contended the probate taken in 1783, as it was upon the oath of but one witness, is insufficient to prove the will, and as the testator resided in that part of Lincoln which was thereafter taken into the county of Mercer, the court of Lincoln had no authority in 1815, to receive farther proof of the execution of the will. A jurisdiction to grant probate of a will having once attached, will not be defeated by a subsequent division of the county. Considered in relation to either probate, we have no doubt the will was properly admitted as evidence. Upon the death of the testator, the jurisdiction of the Lincoln court attached, and being possessed of competent authority to take probate of the will, the circumstance of the place of residence being thereafter taken into the county of Mercer, can not have either prevented the exercise of it, or translated an authority in the court of Mercer to take the probate. But if it could, yet as by the certificate of probate taken before the formation of Mercer, the will appears to have been admitted to record, although upon the oath of one witness, it was clearly proper evidence. *3 The statute of wills requires two subscribing witnesses, unless wholly written by the testator, but may be admitted to record on the oath of one witness, who will be presumed to have testified to every fact necessary to legalize the record. The statute of wills in relation to the devising of lands, it is true, requires the will to be in writing, signed by the testator or testatrix, or by some other person in his or her presence and by his or her directions, and if not wholly written by him or herself, attested by two or more competent witnesses, subscribing their names in his or her presence. This statute, as to the making an attestation of the will, is substantially the same as that of England, except by the latter, three witnesses are required, whereas by the former but two are required: And it has been invariably held by the court of that country, that one witness is sufficient to prove the will. The will must be proven to have been executed according to the requisitions of the statute, but as by the certificate of probate, the will of Lindsay is shown to have been proven and admitted to record upon the oath of one of the subscribing witnesses, he must be presumed to have sworn to every essential fact to its due execution. The will of Lindsay, therefore, having been properly admitted in evidence, the question occurs as to the nature of the estate given to Ann Lindsay by the will. The provision in relation to the land in contest is as follows:--"I give to my loving wife, Ann Lindsay, one thousand acres of land, lying in the fork of Elkhorn, obtained by certificate from the commissioners of the district of Kentucky, granted to Fulton Lindsay, and conveyed to me by bill of sale from said Lindsay, bearing date the 12th April, 1781. The said Ann is to pay Fulton Lindsay, Jr., at the time he arrives at the age of twenty-one, two hundred pounds, provided she obtains a legal title for the same, also to pay off the heir of William Pogue, deceased." It is contended on the part of the appellants, that as the devise to Ann Lindsay is in general terms to her, without containing any words descriptive of the nature of the estate intended to be devised, it should be construed to pass an estate for life and not of inheritance. As Lindsay, the testator, died before the passage of the act of the Virginia legislature, dispensing with words otherwise necessary in a deed or will to transfer an estate of inheritance, the legal import of the devise must be deduced upon the common law principles, applicable to the construction of wills before the passage of the act. Testing the decree by those principles, there can, however, be little doubt but Ann Lindsay acquired an estate of inheritance and not barely an estate for life. In questions of the construction of a will, if the testator evidences an expectation that the devisee is to receive a title from government in his own name a fee passes without words of inheritance. It is apparent from the devise, that no grant had been obtained for the land from the commonwealth when the will was made, and that it was intended by the testator to authorize a perfection of the title in the name of the devisee. It could not, therefore, have been deemed material by him in the devise to Ann to describe specifically the nature of the estate intended to be given, for as by obtaining a grant from the commonwealth, she would be invested with an estate in fee, he must have supposed that his intention to dispose of such an interest would be sufficiently clear by providing for her procurement of the title. As a question of intention, therefore, depending upon a construction of the will, we would have no hesitation in deciding that an estate of inheritance passed to Ann. *4 Where a devise imposes a personal charge on the devisee, a fee passes without words of inheritance. But admitting, if no provision had been made requiring the devisee to pay Fulton Lindsay l 200, &c., the devise might have been differently construed, yet as that provision clearly imposes a personal charge and not a charge upon the estate devised, the devisee must be held to have taken an estate in fee; for it is well settled that a devise which would otherwise pass but a life estate, by creating a personal charge upon the devisee, passes an estate of inheritance. The judgment of the circuit court must, therefore, be affirmed with cost. Haggin for appellant, Pope for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Lindsay's Heirs v. McCormack 2 A.K.Marsh. 229, 9 Ky. 229, 1820 WL 1001 (Ky.), 12 Am.Dec. 387 END OF DOCUMENT
