(Cite as: 3 Bibb 527,  6 Ky. 527 (Ky.),  1814 WL 855 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Fisher v. Mershon. Dec. 15, 1814. West Headnotes Lost Instruments 246 k 14 246 Lost Instruments 246k13 Actions on Lost Instruments 246k14 k. Nature and Form. Most Cited Cases A court of equity has jurisdiction to enforce payment of a note on proof of its destruction. Lost Instruments 246 k 24 246 Lost Instruments 246k13 Actions on Lost Instruments 246k24 k. Trial, Judgment, and Review. Most Cited Cases On a bill for the amount of a note destroyed without fault of the holder, plaintiff is entitled to a decree for the amount of the note, with interest from the time it became due. Interest 219 k 49 219 Interest 219III Time and Computation 219k48 Suspension 219k49 k. In General. Most Cited Cases The loss of a bond does not relieve the obligor from the payment of interest. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS suit was brought by Mershon in chancery to recover the amount of a note destroyed. The bill charges the note to have been destroyed by a neighbor's child, who by some means got the possession of it; and there having been no answer, the bill was taken for confessed, and a decree for relief pronounced. A bill in equity lies to recover the amount of a note destroyed without fault in the holder. We are of opinion the bill contains sufficient allegations to authorize a decree. It is abundantly evident the note was not destroyed by Mershon or through his procurement; and we apprehend it was not incumbent on him, as seems to be supposed by Fisher's counsel, to show a destruction of the note unaccompanied on his part with any possible negligence, before equity can give relief. Had Mershon by his own voluntary act destroyed the note, it would be admitted equity ought not to grant him relief; but to require of him to show he was clear of all possible negligence in permitting the child to gain the possession of the note, would be recognizing the existence of a rule unfounded in principle and not supported by precedent, and which would in its consequence defeat the jurisdiction of Courts of Chancery in almost every case relating to lost writings; for the most circumspect of men do not at all times act with the utmost possible attention to their concerns, and in nearly every case where writings are lost, negligence, in a greater or less degree, is imputable to the owner. We are of opinion therefore the circumstances of the destruction of the note as stated in the bill are sufficient to authorize a Court of Chancery to take jurisdiction of the cause, and that Mershon has shown himself entitled to a decree for the amount of his debt stated in the bill, with interest from the time the note became due until it is paid; but we are of opinion the Court erred in decreeing interest before the note became due, there being nothing in the cause to show an undertaking on the part of Fisher to that effect; and for that cause the decree must be reversed, each party paying his own costs, and the cause remanded for a decree to be entered conformable to this opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Fisher v. Mershon 3 Bibb 527, 6 Ky. 527, 1814 WL 855 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
