(Cite as: 4 Bibb 26,  7 Ky. 26 (Ky.),  1815 WL 639 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Beeler v. Pope. Apr. 18, 1815. *1 Who ought to be parties to a bill to set aside a mortgage as fraudulent. West Headnotes Cancellation of Instruments 69 k 35(3) 69 Cancellation of Instruments 69II Proceedings and Relief 69k35 Parties 69k35(3) k. Parties Defendant. Most Cited Cases Where a purchaser of property on sale under a warrant brings a bill to set aside a fraudulent mortgage on said property, he must make all the mortgagors and joint owners parties defendant. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. CHARLES BEELER and Charles Jones having leased of Pope his salt works, executed their deed of covenant to pay the rent therefor; but failing to pay, Pope issued his distress warrant, and caused sales to be made of their property, and became himself the purchaser of several negroes, etc. Previous, however, to the sales and purchase, Charles Beeler and Jones executed a deed of mortgage for the same property to J. C. Beeler; and to extinguish his claim, and obtain a cancelment of the mortgage, Pope exhibited his bill in chancery, against John C. Beeler only; and the Court below being of opinion the mortgage was fraudulent, decreed it to be canceled. To reverse this decree, Beeler has prosecuted this writ of error. We are of opinion that Court should not have heard the cause and made a decree on the merits, before Charles Beeler and Jones were brought before the Court. They are certainly materially interested in the matter in contest, and according to the uniform course of decision, are necessary parties. The decree must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Court below, with leave for Pope to amend his bill, by making both Jones and Charles Beeler parties, and such other proceedings there had as may be necessary to a final hearing of the cause on the merits. The plaintiff in error must recover his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Beeler v. Pope 4 Bibb 26, 7 Ky. 26, 1815 WL 639 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
