(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 42,  8 Ky. 42 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1137 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John White v. Masterson Ogden. Oct. 17, 1817. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 149 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k149 k. Verdict and Findings as to Improvements or Taxes. Most Cited Cases A report, under the occupying claimant law, should not be quashed for error in the valuation merely for a difference of opinion between the witnesses and the commissioners. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This case turns upon the propriety of the decision of the court below, in quashing the report of commissioners made under the occupying claimant law. The report upon its face is, in every respect, conformable to the law, but was excepted to on the grounds of the commissioners having estimated the improvements made by White too high, and on the ground of their valuation of the rent being too low. A report under the occupying claimant law (otherwise unexceptionable,) should not be quashed for an error in valuation, unless the testimony is very conclusive. We have not thought it material to go into a critical examination of the evidence introduced before the court, for the purpose of proving the value of the rents and improvements, because we are satisfied it is not of that clear and conclusive character, calculated to warrant the decision of the court in quashing the report. It, at most, tends to shew a difference of opinion between some of the witnesses and the commissioners, as to the value of the improvements, but as that difference may be the result of an honest exercise of the understanding, it can not, unconnected with other circumstances, authorize the setting aside of the report. A difference of opinion between the witnesses and the comm'rs which may be an honest difference, will not justify such measure. The decree of the court, therefore, must be reversed, the cause remanded, and such proceedings had as may be consistent with this opinion. The plaintiff must recover his cost in this suit. Hardin for plaintiff, Talbot for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1817. White v. Ogden 1 A.K.Marsh. 42, 8 Ky. 42, 1817 WL 1137 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
