(Cite as: 3 Bibb 202,  6 Ky. 202 (Ky.),  1813 WL 648 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Barnett v. Crutcher. Oct. 20, 1813. West Headnotes Covenants 108 k 118 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k117 Evidence 108k118 k. Presumptions and Burden of Proof. Most Cited  Cases The plea of covenants performed admits the execution of the instrument, and supersedes the necessity of other proof. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a judgment of the Nelson Circuit Court awarded against Barnett, who was plaintiff in that Court. The declaration alleges the plaintiff and Abraham Henderson, on the first day of March, 1786, by a certain writing signed by them and to the Court shown, promised they or either of them would pay Hesper Mensher a likely negro man, between 15 and 25 years of age, without blemish, at or upon the first day of March, 1787; and that the defendants, on the 21st of March, 1787, by their writing obligatory, sealed with their seals, etc., covenanted that they would pay the said Mensher a negro, agreeable to the contract between said Barnett and Mensher, to-wit, the contract first aforesaid, by the first day of October then next ensuing; and alleges for breach the failure of the defendants to pay the negro, etc. The defendants pleaded covenants performed, whereupon issue was joined. On the trial the plaintiff offered in evidence a writing to prove the promise of Barnett and Henderson alleged in the declaration, but failing to prove its execution the Court rejected the writing. The Court then, on the motion of the defendant, instructed the jury that the plaintiff having failed to support his case, they should find as in case of a nonsuit. Whether this instruction was correct is the main point in this cause. The plea of covenants performed admits the covenants declared on, and the plaintiff is entitled to a verdict without any evidence on his part, unless the defendant proves performance. Whether the Court erred in rejecting the writing as evidence, is unimportant in this cause, as it is clear under the pleadings as made up the production of the writing or proof of its execution was unnecessary. The only fact in issue is whether the defendant had performed his covenant? On the trial of such an issue, the onus probandi lies upon the defendant; and without the production of any evidence by the plaintiff, a verdict should be found for him. Such a plea admits the defendant made the covenant alleged in the declaration, and the only inquiry for the jury on the trial of the issue, is whether the covenant has been performed? And if not, the quantum of damages sustained? The record in this cause exhibits no evidence of a performance of the covenant by the defendant; the Court, therefore, evidently erred in instructing the jury to find as in case of a nonsuit. The judgment of the Court must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for a new trial to be had on the issue joined. Ky.App. 1813. Barnett v. Crutcher 3 Bibb 202, 6 Ky. 202, 1813 WL 648 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
