(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 194,  10 Ky. 194 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1196 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Pope v. Benj. Garret et al. Oct. 9, 1820. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases Where a call was "to begin up a branch emptying into B. creek, about four miles from the mouth," there being no evidence to identify which of several branches emptying into B. creek was intended, the entry was held invalid. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court dismissing a bill exhibited by the appellant in that court against the appellees. The object of the bill is to obtain from the appellees a surrender of their legal title to land held under adverse claims, and derived from grants of elder dates to that under which the appellant claims. The appellant asserts the superior equity under the latter of the following entries: Jan. 9, 1783.--James Patton, Benjamin Pope, and Mark Thomas, ass'ees. of Benjamin Thomas, enters 30,000 acres on part of six treasury warrants, No., & c.--on the waters of Brashier's creek, beginning up a branch emptying into the said creek about 4 miles from the mouth, on the upper side, running parallel with the creek, the same distance therefrom, eight miles, then off at right angles eastwardly for quantity. Jan. 23, 1784.--Thomas Hartly enters 6,000 acres on two treasury warrants, No., &c. and 3,655 acres on the waters of Brashier's creek, beginning at Patton's, Pope's, and Thomas' south-west corner of a 30,000 acre entry on the east side of said creek, running northwardly with their lines three miles and a half, then at right angles westwardly for quantity. In order to fix the position of this latter entry, we are necessarily led first, to ascertain the position of the former. But upon adverting to the record, we are totally unable to discover any thing from which the land contained in the entry of Patton, &c. can be ascertained. That entry, it will be perceived, calls to begin up a branch emptying into Brashier's creek about four miles from the mouth, and by the connected plat, various branches are represented as emptying into Brashier's creek; but there is not a vestige of evidence contained in the record conducing in the slightest degree to prove the distance from the mouth of either branch to that of Brashier's creek. If, therefore, the entry of Patton were liable to no other objections, the failure to identify the branch up which it calls to begin, must be fatal to it, and consequently the entry of Hartly, under which the appellant claims, being dependent upon it can not be sustained. An entry calling "to begin on a branch emptying into a creek 4 miles from the mouth," and failing to identify the branch by shewing its distance from the mouth of the creek, is invalid. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Littel, for appellant, Hardin for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Pope v. Garret 3 A.K.Marsh. 194, 10 Ky. 194, 1820 WL 1196 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
