(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 217,  17 Ky. 217 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1537 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Shepherd v. Snell, Snell v. Shepherd. Dec. 13, 1824. *1 Entries, Alienor and Alienee, Purchasers, Equity. CROSS APPEALS FROM THE GENERAL COURT; JOHN P. OLDHAM AND JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGES. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 353 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(B) Actions for Breach of Contract 400k353 k. Judgment and Execution. Most Cited  Cases It is no ground for relief of a vendor against a judgment on his covenant of warranty that his vendee, after a judgment in ejectment, but before actual eviction, purchased of the plaintiff and conveyed to others, unless he shows a superior title. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. On the 23d of December, 1782, there was made with the surveyor, an entry in the name of Thomas Underwood, for 6,587 1-2 acres of land, on the waters of Floyd's fork, on the east side of and adjoining Greenville Smith's 6,750 acre entry, to begin on the road mentioned in said Smith's entry, where his line crosses the same, and to run eastwardly along the said road, on both sides, for quantity, to extend along the road for length twice its breadth. This entry was afterwards surveyed in the name of Underwood, and by him assigned to Charles Lynch, in whose name a patent subsequently issued. Fifty-two acres of the land were thereafter conveyed by Lynch to Snell, and by Snell sold and conveyed by deed of general warranty to John Shepherd, who thereupon received the possession, and against whom, Thomas Deye Owings, claiming under an adverse conflicting patent, brought an action of ejectment, and finally succeeded in recovering a judgment for the land. After this, but before he was actually dispossessed of the land, Shepherd, for the consideration of one hundred dollars actually paid, purchased the land from Owings and received a conveyance therefor, and then sold and conveyed the same to others. To obtain indemnity for the judgment of eviction, however, Shepherd brought an action upon covenant of warranty, contained in the deed of Snell to him, and succeeded in recovering judgment at law. That the alienee had, after judgment in ejectment, but before actual eviction, purchased of the plaintiff and conveyed to others, is no ground for relief of the alienor, against a judgment on his covenant of warranty, unless he shows a superior entry; if his entry be established paramount, he would be entitled to the relief. And as he could not obtain the land if the purchasers had not notice of his equity, he might be entitled to injunction against the judgment at law to some extent. To be relieved from this judgment, Snell then exhibited this bill in equity with injunction. In connection with the preceding facts, Snell charges in his bill, that the entry of Underwood contains the requisite certainty and precision of a valid location, and that it has been correctly surveyed and carried into grant; that the entry under which the adverse claim of Owings originated, is vague, uncertain and void; and that in a court of equity, Shepherd ought not to be permitted to coerce the payment of the judgment recovered upon the covenant of warranty, after having purchased the adverse claim of Owings for the inconsiderable sum of one hundred dollars, and after having sold and conveyed the land to others. *2 Shepherd was made defendant to the bill, and on a final hearing, the court below pronounced a decree perpetuating the injunction as to all the judgment at law except one hundred dollars,and the amount of the costs of the suit of Owings against Shepherd, and the costs of the suit at law against Snell. From that decree, each party appealed. In the state of preparation which the present record exhibits, we apprehend it was incompetent for the court below, consistently with any principle by which courts of equity are governed, to pronounce any decree favorable to Snell. Before he could, upon any principle, be entitled to the aid of the court, it is essential that the validity of Underwood's entry, under which he held the land when he conveyed to Shepherd, should be established. Were that entry admitted to be paramount to the entry under which Owings claimed, it would, no doubt, be incompetent for Shepherd, if he had not conveyed the land to others since he purchased from Owings, to hold the land and enjoy the benefit of his judgment against Snell, consistently with the principles recognized by this court, in the case of M'Kinney against Watts, 3 Marsh. 268; and as he appears to have sold to others, who may have been ignorant of Snell's equity when they obtained the title from Shepherd, who at the time had united in himself both titles, it might have been correct to have relieved, to some extent, against the judgment at law recovered by Shepherd, if the entry of Underwood had been sustained by the proof in the cause. Where there is an agreement that if the circuit court deems proof of certain allegations of the bill essential, time should be allowed to prove them, and that court erroneously deeming it immaterial, decrees for the complainant, this court, in reversing the decree, will direct the time to be given. But the entry is altogether unsupported by any evidence, and for that cause, the decree must be reversed. But as, when the cause was submitted to the court below for a decree, it was agreed between the parties, that time should be given to introduce evidence in support of Underwood's entry, if the court should think such proof essential to Snell's right to relief, it is proper to remark, that when the cause returns to that court, permission must be given the parties to take evidence on that point, before a final decree is pronounced. Snell must pay the costs of both appeals. Ky.App. 1824. Shepherd v. Snell 1 T.B.Mon. 217, 17 Ky. 217, 1824 WL 1537 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
