(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 369,  19 Ky. 369 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1317 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. James' Adm'r v. Neal's Adm'r. Oct. 5, 1826. *1 Fraud. Bailment. Bar by Former Decision. Equity. Certiorari. Amendments. Practice. Re-hearing. Error. APPEAL FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 445 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k445 k. Questions Presented in Original Action. Most Cited  Cases Where fraud in the plaintiff is pleaded at law in defense to an action, and the plea is overruled, the defendant cannot on that account resort to a court of equity for relief. His remedy is in the appellate court. Slaves 356 k 8 356 Slaves 356k8 k. Hiring of Slaves. Most Cited Cases If the bailor of a slave for hire fraudulently conceals his unsoundness, the bailee may return him. Appeal and Error 30 k 659(2) 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(J) Defects, Objections, Amendments, and Corrections 30k658 Certiorari or Other Proceedings to Bring Up  Record 30k659 Authority and  Grounds 30k659(2) k. To Bring Up Amendments Made Below.  Most Cited Cases A certiorari was awarded in order that an amendment might be certified, which had been made after the transcript was sent up. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Neal hired of James, for the term of one year, a negro man, at the price of two hundred and fifty dollars, and executed two notes, one for fifty dollars, and the other for two hundred dollars. The fifty dollar note was afterwards paid by Neal, and suit was brought upon the other note, and judgment recovered at law. Contract of hiring a slave, and judgment at law for the hire. Neal then brought a bill in equity, with injunction, to be relieved against the judgment at law, alleging the unsoundness of the negro at the time he was hired, and charging James with fraudulently concealing the unsoundness, &c. On a final hearing, the injunction was made perpetual by the decree of the circuit court, from which James appealed. Bill of injunction on the ground of unsoundness of the slave. We have not deemed it necessary to give a minute statement of the case as it is set out in the bill, because, in whatever point of view it is considered, the principle upon which a court of equity can interpose and grant relief, is not discerned. No attempt is made in the bill, to draw any extraneous matter in aid of the alleged fraud of James in hiring the negro, for the purpose of maintaining the jurisdiction of the court of equity; and we readily admit, that without such an attempt, a court of equity might take jurisdiction of the case, and decree relief, if it be true that the negro was unsound, and that unsoundness fraudulently concealed by James, and if it be also true, that recently after discovering the unsoundness, Neal offered to return the negro to James, as is alleged in the bill. *2 Where the bailor, in hiring a slave, fraudulently conceals its unsoundness, if the bailee, recently after discovering it, offer to return the slave, he may enjoin the judgment that may be recovered on the obligation for the hire-- Were it not also true, that in the action at law brought against Neal, those matters were pleaded and relied upon as a defence to James' right to recover. Unless he defend at law, and then he shall not-- For, after being induced to hire the negro, through the fraudulent conduct of James, it was unquestionably competent for Neal to refuse to abide by the contract, treat it as a nullity, offer to return the negro, and either plead the matter in defence to the action at law, or waive such defence and apply to a court of equity for relief. But having the privilege of either defending the action at law, or resorting to a court of equity, it is plain, that after adopting either course, Neal can not, according to well settled principles, avail himself of the other. For-- The matter being cognizable in both courts, the decision of either is conclusive. The matter being cognizable, both in equity and law, a decision in either court is conclusive upon the other. And upon adverting to the record of the action at law, it will be discovered that Neal, in defence to that action, in appropriate form pleaded every fact necessary in point of law to avoid the contract, and the same facts which he now relies upon in his bill, to be relieved against the judgment. It is true, the two hundred dollar note which was drawn in question in the action at law, formed but a part of the consideration or price which Neal was to pay for the hire of the negro; but that circumstance does not, we apprehend, affect the case. If, for the fraud of James, the contract might be treated as a nullity, Neal undoubtedly, after offering to restore the negro, was at liberty to plead the fraud in defence of any action which James might bring, either for the whole or part of the price. We know, that from the record of the proceedings at law, the plea of Neal was demurred to by James, and the demurrer sustained by the court. But that does not prove that Neal may now be relieved in a court of equity--it proves that a good plea was erroneously adjudged bad by the court at law; but it is not the province of a court of equity to revise the errors of courts of law, or to relieve the litigant parties from the effects of such errors. If the fraud as to the consideration be pleaded at law, and the plaintiff demur, and the court overrule the plea, the decision will bar a bill in equity. That the plea in such case was pleaded in an action on but one of several obligations for the consideration, does not vary the case. The court of appellate jurisdiction is the proper tribunal to correct errors of that sort, and to that tribunal, and not to a court of equity, Neal ought to have applied, to be relieved from the effect of the erroneous decision of the court of law, upon the demurrer to his plea.FNa1 FNa1. See  Lamb v. Sanders, 1 Monroe, 267. *3 Courts of equity can not revise errors at law. It results, therefore, that the decree must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, the bill dismissed, and the injunction dissolved, with cost and damages. Damages. OCTOBER 13, 1826. PETITION FOR A RE HEARING BY R. H. CHINN, ESQ. The defendant in error petitions the court for a reconsideration of this case. Motion for rehearing on the allegation, that the error had been removed by an amendment lately made to the record of the judgment enjoined, for which a certiorari is now first moved--Overruled. It is readily conceded, that the opinion predicated upon the record before the court, is in every particular correct. The record, however, is deficient. The pleas that had been filed in the suit at law, after the demurrer was sustained, were withdrawn; and as it was a case in which the party might elect to defend at law, or seek relief in a court of equity, it is presumed that a withdrawal of his pleas in the suit at law, placed his case in precisely the same attitude it would have occupied had they never been filed. It is true, as the record was first extended by the clerk, it did not appear that the pleas were withdrawn. At the last term of the court, a nunc pro tunc amendment of the orders and judgment at law was made, and the record, as now truly made out, shews a case in which the party did not defend at law. If the defendant should not get relief in this case, it will be peculiarly oppressive. A clearer case of fraud, it is believed, could not be made out in a court of justice. The defendant respectfully petitions the court to award a certiorari to the clerk of the Fayette circuit court, to certify the amendment in the record in the suit at law, to suspend the opinion, and finally to affirm the decision of the court below. CHINN. OCTOBER 28, 1826. The court did award the certiorari, and the amendment stated, appeared by the return, but on consideration, overruled the motion for the re-hearing, and so the decree stands unaltered. Payne, for plaintiff; Chinn, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. James' Adm'r v. Neal's Adm'r 3 T.B.Mon. 369, 19 Ky. 369, 1826 WL 1317 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
