(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 191,  17 Ky. 191 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1527 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robbins, &c. v. Holley. Dec. 15, 1824. *1 Equity Jurisdiction, Evidence, Set-off in Equity. ERROR TO THE CLARK CIRCUIT; JAMES CLARK, JUDGE. West Headnotes Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 33(2) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k30 Causes of Action on Other and Distinct Contracts or Transactions 352k33 Set-Off 352k33(2) k. Equitable Set-Off. Most Cited  Cases Courts of equity do not act upon the subject of set-off in respect to distinct and unconnected debts, unless some other peculiar equity has intervened. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 33(2) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k30 Causes of Action on Other and Distinct Contracts or Transactions 352k33 Set-Off 352k33(2) k. Equitable Set-Off. Most Cited  Cases Insolvency or nonresidence of a party against whom a set-off is prayed will, in general, authorize equity to set off demands which, in consequence of their lack of connection, could not otherwise be set off. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 49(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k48 Set-Offs and Counterclaims Against Assigned Causes of Action 352k49 In General 352k49(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a demand against which a set-off is pleaded, on the ground of the debtor's insolvency or nonresidence, has been assigned, it must appear that the insolvency or removal from the state occurred before the assignment, or equity cannot set off the demands. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. By the consent of Dodge, who had conveyed various articles of personal property to Robbins, in trust, the property was exposed to public sale, by Robbins, and Holley became the purchaser of part thereof, amounting to the sum of seven hundred and eighty dollars and fifty cents. The whole of this sum, except one hundred dollars, part of the price of a piano forte purchased by Holley, by an agreement between Holley and Robbins, was applied as a credit upon an obligation for twenty-two shares of stock in the Winchester Commercial Bank, which Holley held on Dodgeand Robbins, and for the one hundred dollars Robbins brought an action of assumpsit against Holley, and recovered judgment at law for fifty dollars, the one hundred dollars being reduced to that sum on the trial, by setting off the price of a barrel of sugar which had been furnished Robbins by Holley. The judgment was afterwards assigned by Robbins to John Ward, for the purpose, as Robbins alleges, of indemnifying Ward for having been compelled to pay a note which was given by Robbins to the Winchester Bank, and endorsed by Ward. This bill in equity, with an injunction against the judgment at law, was then exhibited by Holley, in which he states that the one hundred dollars, part of the price of the piano forte, as well as the amount of the other purchases made by him at the sale, was credited by him on the bond for stock in the Winchester Commercial Bank, which he held upon Dodge and Robbins, together with fifty per centum advance upon the amount of his purchases, in pursuance to an agreement betwen him and Robbins to that effect, made at the time he purchased the property; that after he had credited the bond, the balance which remained unpaid was assigned by him to Ninian and Rezin Ridgeway, who thereupon brought suit against Dodge and Robbins, and after deducting his credit upon the bond, recovered judgment for the residue. Holley, moreover, alleges, that owing to the rigid and technical rules of law, he was not allowed to avail himself, in defense to the action at law, of the credit which he had given for the amount of the property purchased by him, or to setoff any portion of the bond for the stock, upon Dodge and Robbins, though he had barely assigned to the Ridgeways the residue of the bond, after giving credit thereon for the entire amount of the property which he purchased at the sale made by Robbins, and fifty per centum advanced thereon. The Ridgeways, Ward, to ??hom Robbins had asigned the judgment, and Dodge ??nd Robbins, were all made defendants to the bill; and, ??n the conclusion, Holley prayed for an injunction ??gainst the judgment, and that, on a final hearing, the ??terest which Holley held in the bond for stock, should ??e set-off against the judgment, Dodge and Robbins ?? oth being, as the bill states, insolvent, and Dodge re??iding out of the state, &c. *2 Allegations of the bill. Robbins is admitted by the defendants, who answer??d in the court below, to be insolvent; but nothing is ??aid in the answers as to the insolvency of Dodge, and ??roof is required to be made by Holley, of every allega??ion contained in his bill and not admitted. Answer. Robbins denies the agreement between him and Hol??ey, as to the one hundred dollars, to be as alleged in ??e bill, and states that the sale was made of the prop??rty by him, for the purpose, in part, of discharging a ??ote for one thousand dollars, which he had given to ??e Winchester Commercial Bank, and which was en??orsed by his co-defendant, Ward, and that it was ??greed between him and Holley, that if a sufficient ??m should not be otherwise obtained from the sale of ??e property to pay the demand of the Winchester ??ommercial Bank, the one hundred dollars, part of the ??rice of the piano forte, should be paid by Holley, and ??t credited on the bond which he held on Robbins and ??odge for stock; and he alleges a sufficient sum has ??t been obtained for that purpose, and that he has as??gned the judgment to Ward, to enable him to make ??e payment, &c. Ward professes to know nothing of the agreement al??ged to have been made between Holley and Robbins, ??d puts Holley on the proof of the allegations of his ??ll, &c. An order of publication was obtained against Dodge, ?? a non-resident defendant; and upon proof of the ??blication being made, the bill, as to him, was taken ??r confessed; and, at the instance of Holley, the suit ??as discontinued as to the Ridgeways. Publication against Dodge. On a final hearing the court below decreed the in??nction perpetual against the judgment at law, and or??red Robbins and Ward to pay costs. To reverse that ??cree, this writ of error is prosecuted by Ward and ??bbins. Decree of the circuit court. (1.) The principle is not discerned, upon which th?? decree of the court below can be sustained. If the agree??ment in relation to the one hundred dollars was in trut?? what Holley alleges it to be in his bill, he should un?? questionably have employed the matter which he no?? sets up in defense, to the action brought by Robbins a?? law, and cannot be permitted to assert it in a court o?? equity. He alleges in his bill, not only that the on?? hundred dollars, by an agreement between him an?? Robbins, made at the time of the purchase by him o?? the property, was to have been discharged by a cred?? of that much upon the bond which he held upon Dodg?? and Robbins for twenty-two shares of stock; but h?? moreover, in pursuance to the agreement, has in fa?? given the credit upon that bond; so that if in point ?? dred dollars must have been discharged before the a?? tion at law was commenced by Robbins, and, cons?? quently, Holley might have defeated the recovery i?? that action, by proving the facts alleged on the trial a?? law. (1) It is no ground for the injunction of a judgment in assumpsit, that the promise recovered upon, had been performed before the action at law was commenced, but the defense was excluded by technical rules. *3 (2.) But supposing that we are mistaken as to th?? construction we have put upon the allegations of th?? bill, and admitting that the allegations ought to be u?? derstood to contain a charge against Dodge and Ro?? bins, of their being indebted to Holley the amount ?? the one hundred dollars and fifty per centum advan?? thereon, for that much, through mistake, credited up?? the bond held by Holley on Dodge and Robbins, f?? stock and afterwards assigned by him to the Ridg?? ways; and admitting, also, that the application of H?? ley to a court of equity should be construed to be a?? dressed to the chancellor to obtain so much of th?? charge to be set-off against the judgment, as might ?? equal to the amount of the judgment; still the prin?? ple would not be perceived upon which the decr?? making the set-off could be sustained. (2) There must be a connection between the demands, or some extraneous circumstance, to authorize a setoff in equity. Considered in that point of view there would exi?? no such connection between the two demands, as wou?? authorize a court of equity to make the set-off, witho?? drawing in aid extraneous circumstances, which a?? not shown to exist in the present case. (3.) It is true, Robbins is admitted to be insolve?? and Dodge must from the publication which was ma?? against him in the court below, be understood to be o?? of the country; and it will not be denied, but what those facts are sufficient in the general, to warrant a court of equity in taking cognizance of a cause, for the purpose of setting off demands which, in consequence of their lack of connection, could not otherwise be decreed in a court of equity. (3) Publication against one defendant, is evidence against the others that he is out of the country. Insolvency or non-residence of the parties against whom the set-off is prayed, is, in the general, sufficient to authorize it. But it should be recollected, that the judgment had been assigned by Robbins to Ward, before the commencement of this suit by Holley; and to affect the equity so derived by Ward, the facts which gave Hol??ley a right to go into equity, ought to be proved to have existed before Ward acquired his right; and, in this case, there is nothing to show when Dodge left the state, or when Robbins became insolvent. But where the demand against which the set-off is prayed, has been assigned, it must appear the insolvency or removal from the state, occurred before the assignment. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and the bill of Holley dismissed with costs and damages. Monroe and Wickliffe, for plaintiffs; Hanson, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Robbins v. Holley 1 T.B.Mon. 191, 17 Ky. 191, 1824 WL 1527 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
