(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 43,  17 Ky. 43 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1476 (Ky.)) Yel Flg Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Clanahan, Field & Co. v. Chambers, &c. Oct. 8, 1824. *1 Assignor and Assignee, Trustees, Trusts, Apportionment. APPEAL FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT; JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Mortgages 266 k 244(1) 266 Mortgages 266V Assignment of Mortgage or Debt 266k244 Priorities 266k244(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases A. conveyed to B. a lot of land, and took back a conveyance in trust to secure the payment of two notes, part of the consideration, A. being authorized to sell the land, or so much as might be necessary to pay whatever part of the two notes might be unpaid at the respective times of payment. The first note was assigned to C., and by him to D., who sued B., but obtained nothing, owing to B.'s insolvency. By an agreement between D. and C., a suit was brought in the name of the latter, for the use of the former, against A., but failed, owing to the laches of D. in not prosecuting the suit on the note against B. with due diligence. Before this A. had sold the land, and caused it to be bought for his benefit, at a very inadequate price, by E., to whom it was conveyed by A., and reconveyed by E. to A. Held, on a bill by D. for relief in equity, that so much of the land as was necessary to pay the two notes should be sold;  and if the sum produced from the sale of the whole of the land should be insufficient to satisfy both debts, that the proceeds should be divided proportionately between A. and D. Trusts 390 k 198 390 Trusts 390IV Management and Disposal of Trust Property 390k188 Sale and Conveyance 390k198 k. Purchase by Trustee. Most Cited  Cases A sale by a trustee to another for the trustee's benefit being an attempt to sell to himself, on the estate being reconveyed by the ostensible purchaser to the trustee, he would still hold it in trust. Equity 150 k 67 150 Equity 150II Laches and Stale Demands 150k67 k. Nature and Elements in General. Most Cited Cases A. conveyed to B. a lot of land, and took a conveyance back in trust to secure the payment of two notes, part of the consideration, A. being authorized to sell the land, or so much as might be necessary to pay whatever part of the two notes might be unpaid at the respective times of payment. The first note was assigned to C., and by him to D., who sued B., but obtained nothing, owing to B.'s insolvency. By an agreement between D. and C., a suit was brought in the name of the latter, for the use of the former, against A., but failed, owing to the laches of D. in not prosecuting the suit on the note against B. with due diligence. Before this, A. had sold the land, and caused it to be bought, for his benefit, at a very inadequate price, by E., to whom it was conveyed by A., and reconveyed by E. to A. Held, on a bill by D. for relief in equity, that his lien was not affected by his laches in prosecuting the suit at law, as without such suit he might have asserted his lien in equity. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. *2 Statement of the case. On the 25th of March, 1818, Chambers sold and conveyed to Waterfield, a parcel of ground in the town of Louisville, for the consideration of fifteen hundred dollars, and at the same time received from Waterfield a conveyance of the land in trust, to secure the payment of two notes, part of the consideration. One of these notes was for three hundred and seventy-five dollars, payable the 25th of September, 1818, and the other was for six hundred and seventy-five dollars, payable the 25th March, 1819; and by the terms of the trust conveyance, Chambers was authorized to sell and convey the land or so much thereof as might be necessary to pay whatever part of the two notes might be unpaid and in arrear at the respective times of payment. The first of these notes was assigned by Chambers to Hinkle, and by Hinkle to M'Clanahan, Field & Co. Suit was brought upon this note by M'Clanahan, Field & Co., against Waterfield; but owing to his insolvency, the amount thereof could not be made. By an agreement between M'Clanahan, Field & Co., and Hinkkle, an action was afterwards brought in the name of the latter, for the use and benefit of the former, against Chambers, upon his assignment of the note; but owing to the laches of M'Clanahan, Field & Co., in not prosecuting the suit upon the note against Waterfield with due diligence, the suit against Chambers was decided Previous, however, to this, Chambers had exposed to sale the land conveyed to him in trust by Waterfield, and procured the same to be purchased at the inadequate price of three hundred and seventy-seven dollars, by a certain Isaac Stewart, for his (Chamber's) benefit. A conveyance of the land was afterwards made by Chambers to Stewart, and the same was again reconveyed by Stewart to Chambers. In this state of case, M'Clanahan, Field & Co., exhibited their bill in equity, for the purpose of subjecting the land conveyed in trust to Chambers, to the satisfaction of the three hundred and seventy-five dollar note, or to obtain payment thereof from Chambers. On a final hearing, the court below pronounced a decree dismissing the bill with costs. From that decree M'Clanahan, Field & Co. appealed. We do not concur with the court below in the opinion that M'Clanahan, Field & Co., have shown no right to be relieved in a court of equity. (1.) In coming to this conclusion, we have considered the decision in favor of Chambers in the action which was brought against him at law, upon his assignment, deserving no influence. That decision ought, perhaps, to be considered decisive against the personal liability of Chambers, upon his assignment to Hinkle. The suit in which it was rendered, though commenced in the name of Hinkle, was prosecuted for the benefit of M'Clanahan, Field & Co.; and it would be incompetent for a court of equity to relieve them from its legal effect, unless under extraordinary circumstances, which are not shown to exist in the present case. *3 (1) Judgment against the assignee of a note, in an action against the assignor, on the assignment, is no bar to a bill by assignee, to subject estate which had been conveyed to the assignor, to secure the payment. But admitting that, as assignor, Chambers is absolved from liability, as was decided in the action at law, it does not thence follow, that M'Clanahan, Field & Co. have not shown themselves entitled to relief. (2.) The note which was assigned by Chambers upon Waterfield, is still unpaid; and though by failing to use due diligence in prosecuting suit against Waterfield, the recourse which might have been otherwise had against Chambers, upon his assignment, may be lost, M'Clanahan, Field & Co. must, we apprehend, be admitted to retain an equitable lien upon the land which was conveyed by Waterfield to Chambers, in trust for the payment of the note. Through the different assignments made upon the note, they unquestionably acquired such a lien; and it is impossible to discern, how any lack of diligence in prosecuting the suit against Waterfield, can preclude them from asserting it in a court of equity. No suit at law against Waterfield, was necessary to authorize M'Clanahan, Field & Co. to assert their lien in equity, and no neglect in suing can prejudice their right. (2) The assignment of a note gives the assignee a lien on estate conveyed in trust to secure the payment which can not be affected by negligence in prosecuting an action at law, for none is necessary. (3.) Nor are we of opinion, their right has been, in any degree, impaired by the sale which was made of the land by Chambers. Though at that sale, Stewart was the ostensible purchaser, as he made the purchase for the benefit of Chambers, the effect of the sale must be the same as if Chambers had been both seller and purchaser; and the doctrine is well settled, that by no contract for the trust estate, can a trustee prejudice the rights of the cestui que trust. It is, in fact, incompatible with the nature of the trust, that Chambers should have purchased, and in equity, he must be considered as still holding the land in his character of trustee. (3) A sale by a trustee to another, for the benefit of the trustee, is, in effect, an attempt to sell to himself, which he can not do; and the estate being reconveyed by the ostensible purchaser to the trustee, he still holds in trust. (4.) Instead, therefore, of dismissing the bill, the court should have decreed the land to be sold, or so much thereof as might be necessary to pay the two notes for which the land was conveyed in trust; and in case a sum equal to both debts should be obtained for the land, the proceeds of sale should be divided between M'Clanahan, Field & Co., and Chambers, in proportion to the amount of their respective debts. (4) The proceeds of estate conveyed in trust to secure the payment of several notes, some of which are afterwards assigned, are to be divided between the parties in proportion to the amount of the notes. *4 The decree must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and such orders and decrees there made, as may not be inconsistent with this opinion. Crittenden, for appellants; Bibb, for appellees. Ky.App. 1824. McClanahan v. Chambers 1 T.B.Mon. 43, 17 Ky. 43, 1824 WL 1476 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
