(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 542,  8 Ky. 542 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1073 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Armistead Morehead v. Prather and Smiley. Jun. 2, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE BULLITT CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bonds 58 k 87 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k87 k. Rights and Liabilities on Assignment or Sale. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k90) Though the sale of a bond for less than the nominal amount may not be usurious, in a proceeding against the assignor he is answerable only for the amount of the consideration paid for the bond, with interest and cost. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Rowan. Prather and Smiley and Morehead having purchased of Crist 300 acres of land, and obtained from him an obligation for a conveyance, the two former sold to Morehead their interest in the land, and assigned to him the bond on Crist. Morehead thereafter sold the bond to Bibb, and obtained from him two bonds, each for the payment of l250. These bonds were subsequently assigned by Morehead to Prather and Smiley, in satisfaction of the debt due to them for the purchase of the land; and suits having been brought thereon against Bibb, he exhibited his bill in equity, for the purpose of being relieved, on the grounds, among other things, of Crist having no title, and being unable to convey the land; and the cause having come on to a final hearing, a decree was pronounced, discharging Bibb from any liability upon the bonds. Before the final decision, however, in favor of Bibb, but whilst the suit was depending in his favor against Prather and Smiley and Morehead, viz., on the 2d day of September, 1805, Morehead executed to the said Prather and Smiley, a writing, wherein it was recited "that I stood indebted to them considerable sums, for securing the payment whereof I transferred by assignment to them obligations given by Crist and Fry and Shepherd to him, for the conveyance of between 4 and 500 acres of land, which bonds were afterwards delivered to Richard Bibb, who gave his bonds to me (Morehead) for l500, which bonds were assigned to Prather and Smiley by me, for value received, on which they brought suits and recovered judgments, one of which was enjoined by Bibb, and which injunction is now depending in the Nelson circuit court; and it seems to be the wish of Bibb, and it is acceded to by Prather and Smiley and myself that the contract with Bibb be rescinded, upon such grounds as that court shall deem equitable. In case the said contract with Bibb shall be set aside by the court. I do hereby, for myself and my heirs, agree, that at the same time that court shall and may make such decree as they shall judge expedient, so as to make the said land subject to the said claim of Prather and Smiley, and for the payment of all costs which they may expend in said suits." And the agreement further recites, "that whereas, said Prather and Smiley have received from said Bibb the amount of one of the bonds, say l250, with interest, &c., and if the contract with Bibb shall be set aside, they will be decreed to refund that sum to Bibb, I do agree to refund that sum to Bibb, and pay whatever sum Prather and Smiley may be decreed to pay him in virtue of the promises, &c." And further proceeds, "that if Morehead should fail to pay, &c., Prather and Smiley might sell the lands, &c. so as to indemnify themselves." *2 After the decree in favor of Bibb was pronounced, this suit was brought by Prather and Smiley, upon the writing just recited, as well to obtain indemnity for the bonds assigned by Morehead upon Bibb, as to subject the lands to the lien created by the writing, &c. Morehead admits the assignment of the bonds upon Bibb but alleges they were usuriously obtained for less than their real amount; and by his answer, which he exhibits in the nature of a cross bill, charges, that the debt, for the payment whereof the bonds were assigned, was created by the purchase from Prather and Smiley of their moiety of the 300 acres of land, which had been previously purchased from Crist, and as Bibb has been absolved from the payment of the bonds, in consequence of Crist's inability to convey, he insists that the contract of purchase by him from Prather and Smiley, should also be set aside, &c. The bill of Morehead, and the cross bill of Prather and Smiley, having come on to hearing, a decree was entered in favor of the latter against the former, for l 518 3s. 7d. and commissioners appointed to sell the land designated in the writing given by Morehead. And the commissioners having, at a subsequent term, reported the sale and conveyance of the land, their report was confirmed by the court, and a decree finally entered against Morehead for the residue of the l 518 3s. 7d. not satisfied by the sale of the land. From that decree Morehead has prosecuted this writ of error. The first objection taken to the decree, involves an enquiry into the sufficiency of the matter charged in the answer by way of cross bill, to set aside the sale by Prather and Smiley, of their moiety of the land previously purchased of Crist. If that sale had been superinduced by the fraud of Prather and Smiley, or if both parties were, at the time of making the contract, ignorant of the defect of Crist's title, and Morehead thereafter prevented by the inability of Crist from obtaining indemnity for his failure to convey, there could be no doubt, but Morehead ought to be relieved. But we are relieved from inquiring into facts which otherwise might have had an important bearing in this case by the circumstance of Morehead having, in 1805, given the writing, already cited, to Prather and Smiley. By that instrument he expressly undertakes to indemnify Prather and Smiley against the equity asserted by Bibb; and as the defect of Crist's title formed the basis of Bibb's right to relief, Morehead, who was a party to that contest, must be presumed to have known it, and consequently, by his undertaking to Prather and Smiley, must have intended to abandon all objections resulting from a defect in Crist's title. The defect in Crist's title, therefore, can not have raised any solid objection to the right of Prather and Smiley to relief. But upon the supposition of their being entitled to relief, it is objected, that inasmuch as Bibb's bonds are shewn to have been given by Morehead at a discount greater than the rate of legal interest, the assignment of them was usurious, and hence it is urged, that the decree in not so considering it, is erroneous. *3 We have no doubt, however, that the assignment of those bonds was not usurious. There are no circumstances in the cause conducing to prove, that either a loan of money, or forbearance of its payment, was the inducement to the transfer of those bonds; but the case is the naked one, of a sale of bonds by one man to another, at a discount greater than the legal rate of interest, and as such, we apprehend, does not come within the laws against usury. But although not within those laws, we are of opinion in a proceeding against the assignor, more can not be recovered than the actual consideration of the assignment, and interest and cost. For as the assignor's liability results from an undertaking implied by law, the consideration paid with interest and cost must be the extent of liability implied. Although the sale of a bond for less than the nominal amount may not be usurious, yet the assignor in the event of a recoil, is answerable only for the amount of the consideration paid for the bond with interest and cost. Testing the present case, therefore, by this rule, no error is perceived in the decree of the court below. For giving Morehead every credit to which he has shewn any pretext of claim, there will remain upon the consideration interest and cost, a sum due Prather and Smiley equal to that decreed. But it is moreover objected, that on account of the inadequacy of the sum for which the land was sold by the commissioners; the court should have quashed their report and set aside the sale. This objection, however, appears not to have been made in the court below, and as it involves questions of fact not to be ascertained here, if otherwise sustainable, certainly can not now be availing. The decree must therefore be affirmed with cost. Bibb, for plaintiff; Littell and Hardin, for defendants in error. Ky.App. 1819. Morehead v. Prather 1 A.K.Marsh. 542, 8 Ky. 542, 1819 WL 1073 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
