(Cite as: 4 Litt. 140,  14 Ky. 140 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1239 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Marshall and Wife v. Lewis, &c. Oct. 14, 1823. *1 FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. H. DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Fraud 184 k 11(2) 184 Fraud 184I Deception Constituting Fraud, and Liability Therefor 184k8 Fraudulent Representations 184k11 Matters of Fact or of Opinion 184k11(2) k. Value. Most Cited  Cases Where land is incumbered with a claim to dower, if a party, intending to purchase, represents to the owner that the land is worth much less than witnesses afterwards estimate it to be worth, such representation is no evidence of fraud; the value of land being mere matter of opinion. Mortgages 266 k 33(2) 266 Mortgages 266I Requisites and Validity 266I(A) Nature and Essentials of Conveyances as Security 266k31 Absolute Deed as Mortgage 266k33 Defeasance or Written  Agreement 266k33(2) k. Form and Sufficiency of Defeasance  in General. Most Cited Cases An instrument executed by a vendee of land, providing that the land shall remain subject to the payment of the unpaid price and that the vendor, on default in payment thereof by the vendee, may recover and repossess the land in the former title as though the conveyance to the vendee had never been made, is a mortgage. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 38 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400I Requisites and Validity of Contract 400k38 k. Misrepresentation and Fraud by Purchaser. Most Cited Cases Misrepresentations to a vendor before the sale by a vendee who is interested in the management of the vendor's lands, as to the number of acres in the tract, the purchase being made by the acre, will be presumed to have been mistakenly rather than fraudulently made, where it appears that the vendor knew that they contained a larger number of acres, and that the number of acres recited in the contract was not intended to be conclusive, but rather as a description of the land sold. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 38 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400I Requisites and Validity of Contract 400k38 k. Misrepresentation and Fraud by Purchaser. Most Cited Cases A misrepresentation by a prospective purchaser as to the number of acres of land to be sold and paid for by the acre is not of itself evidence of fraud for which the seller can set aside the conveyance, when the misrepresentation was prompted by an honest mistake of opinion on the part of the purchaser. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 38 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400I Requisites and Validity of Contract 400k38 k. Misrepresentation and Fraud by Purchaser. Most Cited Cases Since the value of land is a matter of opinion, a representation by a prospective purchaser to the vendor that the land was of less value than estimated by others is not evidence of fraud upon the vendor for which the conveyance will be set aside, when the land was incumbered by a dower claim which justified the difference in estimates. Husband and Wife 205 k 25(2) 205 Husband and Wife 205I Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities 205k25 Agency of Husband for Wife 205k25(2) k. Scope of Agency. Most Cited  Cases A husband may release a mortgage, executed to his wife while a feme sole, to secure the purchase price of land sold by her. BIBB and CRITTENDEN for appellants; HARDIN and HAGGIN for appellees. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. *2 The appellant, Mrs. Marshall, is the daughter of John Lewis, deceased, by whose will the land which is the subject of this contest, was devised to her and her brothers Charles Lewis, Andrew Lewis and Samuel Lewis. She first intermarried with a certain ______ Luke, and after his decease married Spencer Ball, and again, after the death of Ball, and during the pendency of this suit in this court, she married the appellant, Alexander Marshall. The suit was brought by her whilst she was the widow of Ball, and after her marriage with Marshall it was revived in his name. A misrepresentation of the number of acres contained in a tract, made by the intended purchaser to the owner, where the land is to be sold and paid for by the acre, will not be evidence of fraud; it will be presumed an innocent mistake. Whilst she was the widow of Luke, and on the 11th of January, 1812, she contracted with Andrew Lewis, who acted for himself and as agent for his brother, Samuel Lewis,, to sell to them her undivided fourth part of a tract of one thousand acres of land lying in the county of Jessamine, and a tract of two thousand five hundred acres lying in the counties of Franklin and Woodford, at the price of eight dollars per acre. At the same time, a deed of conveyance was executed by her to her brothers, Andrew and Samuel, for the two tracts of land, and which purports to have been made for the consideration of seven thousand dollars, the aggregate amount of one fourth of three thousand five hundred acres at eight dollars per acre. One thousand dollars of the purchase money was paid in hand, by Andrew Lewis, and bonds executed by him for himself and as agent for Samuel Lewis, to secure the payment of the residue of the price. Andrew Lewis, at the same time, executed a separate writing, in which, after reciting that the said Andrew and Samnel, in expectation of purchasing the interest of their sister Luke, had sold more than their proportion of the lands, and after suggesting eight dollars per acre to be a fair price, he set out the terms of the purchase to be eight dollars per acre; but at the same time stipulating, that if the said Andrew and Samuel shall sell that part of the said one fourth of said lands, which was then unsold, for more than eight dollars per acre, either of them so selling should pay the amount exceeding eight dollars per acre, to their said sister Luke. The writing contains various other recitals, not now necessary to be noticed, and finally concludes by an agreement, "that the lands therein mentioned and conveyed by the said Luke, shall remain and be subject to the payment of that part of the purchase money then unpaid; and in case the said Eliza Luke and her heirs are not able to recover the said sums of money agreed to be given for said land, she or they shall and may recover and re-possess said land in her former title, as if the deed aforesaid had never been made." The value of land being matter of opinion, it seems that if the intended purchaser should, in his communications with the owner, represent it to be worth one-fifth less than any other person should, it would not be evidence of fraud. *3 But, be that as it may, if the land was incumbered with a claim of dower, notwithstanding the doweress was an aged woman, that circumstance would completely justify the difference of estimates. Subsequent to this, and after Mrs. Luke had intermarried with Spencer Ball, and on the 10th of January, 1815, a further agreement was entered into between said Spencer Ball and Samuel Lewis, in which, after reciting the contract between Andrew Lewis and Mrs. Luke, and suggesting that Samuel Lewis did not intend to authorize Andrew Lewis to contract in the manner so recited, as to the said land, and stating the desire of the parties that the contract should not remain in the uncertainty in which it was placed by the contract of Andrew, it was agreed that the said Spencer Ball and Eliza, his wife, should, on or before the first of September next thereafter, dissent or finally agree to the sale of the land for the consideration expressed in the con??ttract with Andrew Lewis, and in case of their agreeing to the contract, the said Samuel was to make the payments, according to the terms thereof, on the said first day of September, or as soon thereafter as required. Ball at the same time received from Samuel Lewis a drove of hogs, the price of which was to be retained by him in part payment of the price of the land, in case he should finally confirm the sale; but it was further agreed, if Ball should dissent to the contract, against the said first day of September, deliver up the obligations which Andrew had executed for the purchase moeny, pay the proceeds of the drove of hogs, and refund the money actually advanced in payment of the land, that the contract of sale should be vacated and held for nought, and the deed of conveyance cancelled, &c. Where the wife's interest in land is in the nature of a mortgage intended to secure the payment of money, and nothing more, the husband may re??lease it. On the first of September, 1815, Ball executed a receipt, setting out the various payments made by Lewis for the land, amounting in the aggregate to ten thousand dollars, and acknowledging the receipt of the same in full satisfaction for the land. And in January, 1818, the said Spencer Ball gave a further writing, certifying that he was informed by the administrator of Andrew Lewis, that the said Anderw died insolvent, and acknowledging full payment from Samuel Lewis, of the price agreed to be given by Andrew Lewis for the land, in his contract with Mrs. Luke, &c. After this, Spencer Ball departed this life, and his widow, Eliza Ball, exhibited this bill against Samuel Lewis and various others. She charges, that under the will of her deceased father, John Lewis, she became entitled to the one undivided fourth part of two military tracts of land in the state of Kentucky, one a tract estimated at 1,000 acres, and the other estimated at 2,000 acres; that she authorized her brother, Samuel Lewis, who then resided in this state, to transact her business and make sale of her lands; that she was a destitute widow, living in the state of Virginia, without the necessary means of support, and totally ignorant of the value of her lands in Kentucky; that whilst in this situation, she was applied to by her brother, Andrew Lewis, to purchase her lands in Kentucky, for himself and her brother Samuel, and being assured by Andrew, as well as by a letter from Samuel, that seven dollars per acre was an adequate price for her lands, and being in great need of money, she agreed to sell the lands for eight dollars per acre, and actually executed a conveyance therefor, to her two brothers, the said Andrew at the same time executing to her an instrument of writing, providing for a rescission of the contract, upon his and his brother Samuel's failing to make prompt payment. She also charges, that at the time of making the contract, she possessed great confidence in the integrity of her brothers and their affection for her, and that she was then entirely ignorant of her brother Samuel's having previously, under his power from her, sold any part of her land, or that either tract contained any surplus land; but that she has since discovered that each tract contains a large surplus, and that her brother Samuel had in fact sold part of her land at the price of ten dollars per acre, the greater part whereof he received in hand. She, moreover, charges her brothers with having fraudulently concealed from her the sale which Samuel had made of her land, and having falsely represented the land not to be worth more than eight dollars per acre, when part had been sold for ten dollars per acre, and all was at that time worth about fifteen dollars per acre. She also states that she was informed by her brothers, that the land was involved in litigation, when in truth there was no conflicting claims interfering with it, and no other pretended claim upon it. She charges that both Samuel and Andrew failed to comply with their part of the contract so fraudulently procured, and insists that before the subsequent agreement made between Samuel Lewis and her husband, Ball the contract made by her with Andrew Lewis, was forfeited. She alleges that she was no party to the contract between her husband and her brother Samuel, and insist that it is not obligatory on her, and that it ought not to be made to defeat her from recovering her iand. But she further states, that the agreement so made by her husband, was procured by Samuel Lewis through the same false and delusive representations of the value of the land and its being involved in litigation, that had been made by Andrew to her. She denies that either the contract made with her by Andrew, or that made with her husband Ball, by Samuel, has been fulfilled by her brothers. She prays that the contracts may be either set aside or specifically enforced and that her proportion of the surplus of each tract may be decreed to her, except so far as her first husband, Luke, had sold the surplus of the Jessamine tract, and received payment. *4 Samuel Lewis admits the contract which was made by his brother Andrew, with his sister Luke, for the land; but he states, that in stipulating to pay more than eight dollars, he considers his brother had exceeded the power which he intended to confer on him, to make the contract. He alleges that the land was incumbered with his mother's right of dower, and avers that he considered eight dollars, per acre was a fair price for his sister's interest, at the time Andrew made the purchase. He denies making any false statements by letter to his sister, or having concealed the fact of his having sold part of her land; but, to the contrary, he alleges that he had previously written to her, informing her of the sale, and that the letter was before her when she concluded the contract with Andrew. He alleges, that not being satisfied with the manner in which the contract was made with Andrew, and being desirous of having the business amicably and finally closed, he entered into the subsequent agreement, fairly and in good faith, with his sister's husband, Ball, and, as he then supposed, to her entire satisfaction and with her approbation. He alleges that, instead of dissenting from the agreement, as he was permitted to do by the last agreement, Ball finally received from him about ten thousand dollars, in full satisfaction for the land, a sum amply sufficient to cover the value of the land, according to any fair estimate, at the time it was sold, including surplus. He insists that the husband of his sister, Ball, was entitled to receive the price of the land. He denies that the Jessamine tract contains more surplus than will be adequate to compensate him for the money advanced under his contract with Luke, his sister's first husband. He denies that his sister was ignorant of the tracts' containing surplus, when she sold to Andrew. He denies that the contract with Andrew has been forfeited, and insists that his sister is entitled to no relief. The court below, on a final hearing, pronounced a decree dismissing the complainant's bill with costs. There is evidently no foundation for the charge contained in the complainant's bill, that she was ignorant of the tract's containing surplus, at the time she contracted with Andrew Lewis. Prior to that time, her first husband, Luke, made an agreement in relation to the surplus of the Jessamine tract, with Samuel Lewis; and it is clear, from other statements in her bill, that she was apprised of that contract. And with respect to the other tract, which, according to the original survey, is denominated 2,000 acres, it is equally clear that she must have known that it contained surplus; for, in her contract with Andrew Lewis, that tract is described as containing 2,500 acres, and that description appears to have been taken from a letter which had previously been written to her by Samuel Lewis, and which was then before her. It is true, that instead of the quantity of 2,500 acres, which that tract is described to contain, it appears now, from the evidence in this cause, to contain about 2,600 acres; but that mistake in the quantity is not of a character which ought to induce a cancelment of the contract. It resulted, most probably, from an honest, though mistaken opinion entertained by Samuel Lewis, as to the true quantity of acres, and was mentioned in the contract, not for the purpose of either concluding the seller or purchaser, as to the quantity, but as a description of the tract, which was sold by the acre, and which ought to be paid for by the acre, be the quantity more or less. *5 And if possible, there is less pretext for the suggestion contained in the bill, that the complainant was ignorant of any sale having been made of any part of her land, by Samuel Lewis, before she sold to Andrew. The writings which were executed at the time of the sale, expressly refer to a letter which had been previously received by her from Samuel Lewis; and from that letter, now contained in the record, she appears to have been informed of a sale to the amount of eighteen hundred dollars having been made of her land, and one thousand dollars thereof sent to her by Andrew Lewis. The main charge of fraud, and that alone which the proof in the cause seems to conduce most strongly to support, relates to the representations alleged to have been made by Andrew, at the time of the contract, as to the value of the land. It can not be denied, but that eight dollars per acre was alleged by Andrew to be a fair price. The writings themselves show that such were his statements, and the parol proof tends to establish the fact. It is, moreover, satisfactorily proved, that the land, at that time, was of value greater than eight dollars per acre. The lowest estimate upon the land by any witness, is ten dollars, and between that and twelve dollars there is some difference of opinion. The weight of evidence, we think, is in favor of ten dollars. But it should not be forgotten, that value is mere matter of opinion, and the representations should be grossly and palpably false, to authorize from thence the inference of fraud. In this case, however, there are other circumstances, which in our opinion, are entitled to weight, in testing the motives which induced those representations. By the will of John Lewis, deceased, his wife was entitled to one-third of those lands, during her life; that interest had been purchased from her by Samuel and Andrew Lewis, before the complainant sold the land, and at the time of the sale their mother was still living. In fixing a value upon the complainant's interest in the land, therefore, Andrew Lewis may have taken into the estimate the incumbrance of his mother's right; and, admitting the land to have been otherwise worth ten dollars, that incumbrance, according to any fair calculation, would reduce it to something like the amount of eight dollars. Under such circumstances, it would be indulging too rigid a presumption, to infer from the representations as to the value, a fraudulent intention to impose upon the complainant. Such an intention would, in fact, be incompatible with the stipulation made by Andrew, to pay the complainant whatever sum, above eight dollars, the land should thereafter be sold for, and is forbidden by the subsequent conduct of Samuel Lewis, in placing, by his agreement with the complainant's husband, Ball, the execution or cancelment of the contract at the election of Ball and his wife. Hence, we infer, that neither the conduct of Andrew nor that of Samuel Lewis, in making the contract, was of that deceptive character which can justify a cancelment of the contract of purchase made by Andrew Lewis. *6 We do not accord with the complainant in the position assumed in her bill, that by not performing the contract on their part, before Samuel Lewis entered into the second contract with Ball, Andrew and Samuel had violated the contract made with the complainant, and that her interest is not prejudiced by the acts of her husband, Ball. The writing which was executed by Andrew to the complainant, at the time of the contract, is, no doubt, sufficient to secure her lien on the land for the sale money; but we view that writing in the light of a mortgage, and not, in technical language, a defeasance, operating to defeat the estate which had been conveyed by the complainant, and revest the same in her, upon a failure by Andrew or Samuel Lewis to perform any of the stipulations of the contract. Thus considering that writing, therefore, there can be no question but that Ball, the husband of the complainant, possessed the right to dispose of the claim which she held on Andrew and Samuel Lewis for the land. In legal strictness, her claim was for nothing but money; it was a chose in action, and immediately upon her marriage with Ball, was at his disposal. If the claim held by the complainant on the Lewises, had not been received by Ball, or disposed of by him in his lifetime, she, as the surviver, would, no doubt, be entitled to it; but the proof is conclusive, in this case, that Ball has not only discharged Lewis from all obligations under the contract, but that he in fact received a sum from him more than equal to the value of his wife's interest in the land, including the surplus. It follows, therefore, that the complainant has shown no right to relief, and consequently, her bill was properly dismissed. Decree affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Marshall v. Lewis 4 Litt. 140, 14 Ky. 140, 1823 WL 1239 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
