(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 75,  17 Ky. 75 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1489 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Clay, &c. v. Cousins, &c. Oct. 11, 1824. *1 Descents, Half Blood, Statutes. APPEAL FROM THE BOURBON CIRCUIT; JAMES CLARK, JUDGE. West Headnotes Descent and Distribution 124 k 35 124 Descent and Distribution 124II Persons Entitled and Their Respective Shares 124II(A) Heirs and Next of Kin 124k32 Brothers and Sisters and Their Descendants 124k35 k. Half Blood. Most Cited  Cases A brother of the half blood is preferred to the brothers and sisters of the father. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. Many years ago, Henry Clay, being the holder of the legal title to a tract of land in the county of Bourbon, departed this life, leaving a widow and an only child, Thomas C. Clay. After the death of Henry Clay, his widow intermarried with Robert Cousins, and had by him a son, Samuel W. Cousins. Thomas C. Clay, the son of Henry Clay, subsequently, and whilst he was an infant, under the age of twenty-one years, also departed this life, and the present action of ejectment was then brought by the appellants, who are the brothers and sisters of Henry Clay, to recover, as the heirs of Henry, the tract of land held by him at his death. An infant having title to real estate derived from the father, dies without issue, leaving a mother, half brother by the mother's side, and uncles and aunts by the father's--to whom does it descend? The only question made in the court of original jurisdiction, and now presented for the decision of this court, is whether, on the death of the infant, Thomas C. Clay, the land which he derived from his father, Henry Clay, passed by operation of law to the brother and sisters of his father, or descended to his half brother on the part of his mother, Samuel W. Cousins. (1.) In the consideration of this question, it is not necessary that we should travel back and explore the antiquated doctrine of the English law of descents. The right of inheritance is admitted by all to depend upon principles established by civil institutions, and as the legislature of this country have enacted a law regulating the descent of estates, it must be by that law that the present question is to be tested and decided. (1) The right of inheritance depends on principles established by civil institutions, and in this state on statute. (2.) It may, however, tend in some measure to illustrate the correct exposition of the act of this country, to premise, that with a slight variation, it is composed of two acts of the legislature of Virginia, and as respects the present question, must be construed as those acts of Virginia, taken in connection, should be interpreted. The first act of Virginia was enacted in 1785, and the latter was enacted in 1790. (2) The statute of descents of this state, is composed, with a slight variation, of the acts of Virginia of 1785 and 1790, and as respects this question, must be construed as these acts, taken in connection. *2 The act of 1785 provides, that where any person having title to any real estate of inheritance, shall die intestate, as to such estate, it shall descend and pass in parcenary to his kindred, male and female, in the following course, that is to say: "Sec. 2. To his children, or their descendants, if any there be. Sec. 3. If there be no children, nor their descendants, then to his father. Extract from the act of 1785. Sec. 4. If there be no father, then to his mother, brothers and sisters, and their descendants, or such of them as there be." (3.) The act of 1785, contains various other provisions; but the foregoing are the only sections which have a direct bearing upon the present questions; and were such precisely the present state of the law, there could be no reasonable doubt as to the right of the defendant, Cousins, in coparcenary with his mother, to the land in contest; for the title to the land was in Thomas C. Clay, at the time of his death, and having, at that time, no children or father, according to the explicit language of the fourth section, the title must have descended to his mother and brother, Samuel W. Cousins. It is true, Samuel W. Cousins is not the child of the father of Thomas C. Clay; but he is the child of Thomas C. Clay's mother, and is emphatically, Thomas C. Clay's brother. (3) This act directed the estate, howsoever acquired, of a person of whatsoever age, who left neither father nor issue, to descend to the mother, brothers and sisters, whether of the whole or half blood. But the fourth section of the act of 1785, has undergone a change, by the third section of the act of Virginia, of 1790. That section provides, "where an infant shall die without issue, having title to any real estate of inheritance, derived by purchase or descent from the father, the mother of such infant shall not succeed to or enjoy the same, or any part thereof, by virtue of the above recited act, (the act of 1785), if there be living any brother or sister of such infant, or any brother or sister of the father, or any lineal descendant of either of them." Extract from act of 1790. (4.) This section, no doubt, has so far altered the act of 1785, as to exclude the mother of the defendant, Cousins, from inheriting any part of the land to which Thomas C. Clay was entitled at his death, and to which he became entitled by purchase or descent from his father; but it is only as to the right of the mother to inherit the real estate of her infant child, and which is derived by the child from the father, that has under gone any change by the act of 1790, and, of course, the right of the brothers and sisters of an infant, to inherit his estate, must be as perfect since the enactment of the act of 1790, as it was under the act of 1785. Their right is, in fact, greater; for whilst under the act of 1785, the brothers and sisters were entitled only to a coparcenary interest with their mother, in the estate of their deceased infant brother, derived from his father, they must now, under the act of 1790, excluding the mother, be construed to take the whole estate of their deceased infant brother. *3 (4) This act excludes the mother, where the estate was derived from the father and the testator dies within age, and gives the whole to the brothers and sisters, whether of the half or whole blood. (5.) If, therefore, we are correct in the construction of the two acts of the Virginia legislature, it follows that the defendant, Cousins, who is the brother of Thomas C. Clay, on the line of his mother, is entitled to the land in contest, by descent from Thomas C. Clay, and that the court below was correct in so instructing the jury; for each of the sections to which we have referred, are literally copied into the act of this country, and must be understood to confer upon Cousins the same right that would have descended upon him from his brother, under the two acts of Virginia. (5) The statute of Kentucky contains both these provisions from the Virginia acts; therefore, the entire estate descends to the brother of the half blood, and not to the father's brothers and sisters. The judgment must, consequently, be affirmed with costs. Crittenden, for appellant; Taul, for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Clay v. Cousins 1 T.B.Mon. 75, 17 Ky. 75, 1824 WL 1489 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
