(Cite as: 4 Bibb 340,  7 Ky. 340 (Ky.),  1816 WL 756 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cole v. Cole's administrator. May 23, 1816. *1 In detinue it is unnecessary to aver a demand of the property. If a person who is in possession of a slave upon a loan, advances money for the owner, he has no right to retain the slave until the money is paid. West Headnotes Bailment 50 k 19 50 Bailment 50k19 k. Reimbursement and Indemnity of Bailee. Most Cited Cases A person in possession of a chattel, who advances money for the owner, has no right to retain the chattel until the money is paid. Detinue 126 k 7 126 Detinue 126k7 k. Demand. Most Cited Cases In detinue, the writ is a sufficient demand of the thing detained;  and a previous demand is not otherwise necessary than to enable the plaintiff to recover damages for the detention before suit brought. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an appeal from the judgment of the Court below rendered for the recovery of a negro boy in an action of detinue, brought in that Court by the appellee against the applicant. The errors assigned are--1. That the declaration is defective. 2. The Court erred in the instruction given to the jury, as stated in the bill of exceptions filed. The declaration contains but one count, and that is upon a special bailment of the negro by the appellee to the appellant, and the first assignment of error is made upon the supposition that a special request for a return of the negro should have been averred in the declaration. That such averment was not necessary, we suppose was in effect settled by this Court in the case of  Tunstall v. M'Cleland (1 Bibb 186.) By that case it was held (and the reasons there advanced incontestably prove its correctness) that in actions of detinue no other evidence than that of the writ is necessary to prove a demand; and if so, it clearly results that a special demand cannot be necessary to be laid in the declaration: for it would be preposterous to require a special averment of the existence of a fact, and not also require the production of evidence to prove it. With respect to the instructions given to the jury, we are unable to perceive any possible objection to them. The appellant appears to have claimed a right to retain the negro as a pledge until he should be paid the money advanced by him for the intestate of the appellee. But in that point of view, the Court unquestionably did right in instructing the jury that if the boy was delivered to the appellant on a loan, and that he afterward advanced his money without any special contract between him and the intestate, that he had no right to retain the boy until his money was repaid. Judgment affirmed, etc. Ky.App. 1816. Cole v. Cole's Adm'r 4 Bibb 340, 7 Ky. 340, 1816 WL 756 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
