(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 373,  22 Ky. 373 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1699 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Shields, &c. v. Craig's Administrators. Dec. 26, 1827. *1 Practice. Revivor. Executors. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 73 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k73 k. Persons Against Whom Action May Be Continued or  Revived. Most Cited Cases Where, in a suit about personal estate claimed by joint heirs, one of them dies intestate and childless, the suit must be revived against his personal representatives. Abatement and Revival 2 k 75(1) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k75 Application and Proceedings Thereon 2k75(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where, in a suit about personal estate claimed by joint heirs, one of them dies intestate and childless, the revivor can be only by bill, and process must be executed before the order of revivor. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This writ of error is prosecuted by Robert Shields and Curry, to reverse a decree pronounced in a suit in chancery, originally brought by James Craig in his lifetime, against them and others, heirs of R. Shields, deceased, and after his death, by order of court, upon bill of revivor filed by his administrators, revived in their names. Case stated. It is unnecessary to examine the merits of the decree, because there exists several irregularities in the preparation of the cause in the circuit court, for which the decree must be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court for further proceedings. In the first place, the suit, after the death of James Craig, in whose name it was originally commenced, was never regularly revived in the name of his administrators. We have no statutory provision that authorizes the revival of a chancery suit by order of court, without bill of revivor in the name of the representatives of the complainant, who dies after the suit is commenced; and according to the usual and settled practice in chancery, to authorize a revival of the suit after the death of a complainant, it is not only necessary that his representatives, who desire to revive the suit, should file a bill of revivor, but after the bill is filed by them, process should issue thereon, and be executed in the same manner as process on an original bill. In this case there was, it is true, a bill of revivor filed after the death of James Craig, by his personal representatives, and it is also true, that after the bill was filed, an order reviving the suit in the names of the personal representatives was made by the court; but it was undoubtedly irregular in the court to make the order of revival before the defendants were served with process on the bill of revivor, and no service of such process appears in the present record. *2 Where the complainant dies, the suit can be revived only by bill, and process on that must be executed before the order of revivor. By the decree which was rendered, the circuit court seems also to have acted upon the mistaken supposition, that all the defendants named in the original and amended bills had been either served with process before the death of James Craig, or been proceeded against as absent defendants, by regular publication. No order of publication was ever made against Templeton and wife, or John Shields, each of whom are made defendants by the original bill, and the latter of whom is alleged to be the administrator of Robert Shields, deceased, and neither of whom appears to have ever been served with process on the original bill, or bill of revivor. Process. There is also an irregularity in not making the proper parties to the suit. All the heirs of Robert Shields, deceased, are interested in the matter in contest, and were correctly named as parties to the original bill, brought by James Craig, but it appears from the record that Jane Shields, one of the heirs, afterwards died, and no steps were afterwards taken to bring her representatives before the court. It is true she appears to have died childless and intestate, so that any real estate which she may have owned, must have passed to her brothers and sisters, all of whom are parties; but it is personal, and not real estate which is the subject of the present contest, and though as distributees, her brothers and sisters may ultimately be entitled to whatever sum she would have recovered if living, it should first have passed through the hands of her personal representatives to whom it went by operation of law at her death, and who of course ought to be made party, and brought before the court, before a final decree is made on the merits. Where in a contest about real estate claimed by joint heirs, one dies without issue or will, leaving the others his heirs, no reviver is necessary. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with cost, and the cause remanded to the court below, with directions for that court to dismiss the bill without prejudice to another suit, unless the complainants, in reasonable time to be fixed by the court, amend their bill, and make the personal representative of Jane Shields, deceased, party if no sufficient cause be shown to the court for not making such party, and unless the complainant also, in reasonable time, cause all the defendants, not heretofore served with process, to be brought before the court by the service of process or regular publication against them. Otherwise, in cases of personalty, which passes to the personal representatives. Triplett, for plaintiffs; Wickliffe, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Shields v. Craig's Adm'rs 6 T.B.Mon. 373, 22 Ky. 373, 1827 WL 1699 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
