(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 563,  22 Ky. 563 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1183 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Harris v. Amos, &c. Apr. 8, 1828. *1 Set-off. Consideration. Nudum Pactum. APPEAL FROM THE HART CIRCUIT COURT; BENJ. MONROE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 49(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k48 Set-Offs and Counterclaims Against Assigned Causes of Action 352k49 In General 352k49(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A., to secure a debt due to him from B. agreed with C. to become bound to pay B. a debt C. owed B., after which B. assigned the obligation to D. Held, in an action by D. to compel A. to pay the debt due from C. to B., that A. could not set off his demand against B. Contracts 95 k 74 95 Contracts 95I Requisites and Validity 95I(D) Consideration 95k74 k. Benefit to Third Person. Most Cited  Cases A., to secure a debt due to him from B., agreed with C. to become bound to pay a debt C. owed B., after which B. assigned the obligation to D. A. then took up C.'s note, and gave his own to D., who promised that, if he purchased a certain slave of B., he would pay A. his claim on B. Held, that the latter agreement was without consideration. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This is an appeal from a decree, dis??missing a bill, which was exhibited by Harris ??against John B. Amos &c. in the circuit court. Har??is appears to have previously executed a note to ??ohn B. Amos, for $144 65, upon which note suit ??was brought, and judgment at law recovered by Amos against him, and the object of the bill is to ??e relieved from the judgment, by having applied to ??ts satisfaction, debts which are owing him by Ran??om Amos. Case stated. The bill alleges, that after the debts which are owing by R. Amos to Harris were created, a certain Irvin Morris became indebted to R. Amos, in the sum of three hundred dollars by note, and R. Amos being in failing circumstances, Harris, for the purpose of securing the debts owing to him by said Amos, made a contract with Morris, by which he undertook to pay the three hundred dollars for which Morris was bound to Amos. That the note of Morris to R. Amos, was assigned by the latter, to John B. Amos, and being applied to by him for the purpose, Harris lifted the note of Morris, and executed the one upon which the judgment at law was recovered to John B. Amos, it being at the same time understood and agreed between Harris and John B. Amos, that if the latter thereafter purchasfrom Ransom Amos, a certain negro boy, he would satisfy the debts owing to Harris by said Ransom Amos and deliver up the note then executed by Harris, and that the said John B. Amos, did afterwards purchase the negro boy from Ransom Amos, and now refuses to credit Harris with the debts or any part thereof, which are owing him by said Ransom Amos. The bill also alleges fraud and collusion between John B. Amos and Ransom Amos, and charges the latter with having assigned the note on Morris to the former, not for a valuable consideration, but in trust, for the use and benefit of Ransom, who has finally became utterly insolvent. The bill asked for, and obtained an injunction, and prayed for the appropriate relief &c. *2 Allegations of Harris' bill. The execution of the note upon which the judgment at law was obtained, is admitted by John B. Amos to have been in consideration of the note of Morris, which had been assigned to him by Ransom Amos, but he denies that the assignment was fraudulently or collusively made in trust for Ransom Amos, but alleges it to have been bona fide, for a full and valuable consideration paid by him long before Harris, by his contract with Morris, undertook and bound himself to pay the same. He states, that at the time the note was given by Harris, the note of Morris was delivered up, and he at the time had in expectation the purchase of a negro boy from Ransom Amos, and admits that he told Harris he would settle the demands which he had against Ransom, if he succeeded in making the purchase of the negro. But he alleges that the negro he had then in contemplation to purchase was afterwards sold by Ransom Amos to another person, and he denies that Harris has any just claim for relief against the note executed by him &c. Answer of J. B. Amos. The bill we think was correctly dismissed. There is no pretext for the charge of fraud and collusion made in the bill, and the evidence is clear, that in stead of Morris' note being assigned by Ransom Amos, in trust for himself, it was purchased by John B. Amos for a valuable consideration, and that purchase known to Harris when he contracted with Morris to discharge it. If therefore, the judgment instead of having been obtained upon the note which was given to John B. Amos, had been recovered upon the written assurance which Harris gave to Morris to pay the three hundred dollarnote, which had been assigned to said John B. Amos, it is obvious that as against the assignee, Harris could have no good cause of relief, and it is not perceived how his case can have been bettered by the taking up Morris' note, and executing his own note directly to John B. Amos. His case undoubtedly cannot be bettered on account of any claim for relief asserted through any matter existing prior to the execution of the note upon which the judgment at law was recovered. H., to secure a debt due him by R. A., agreed with M. to become bound to pay R. A. a debt M owed R. A.; after which R. A. assigned the obligation to J. B. A.: held that H. may be compelled to pay the debt on M. to J. B. A. and can not set off against it his demand against R. A. But it appears that by the agreement of the parties when the note was given, Harris was to have his debts on Ransom Amos satisfied by John B. Amos, provided the latter should thereafter purchase from Ransom Amos a negro boy, and it is contended that the boy was accordingly purchased by John B. Amos, and under that agreement and purchase it was insisted relief should have been decreed in favor of Harris. H. being thus bound to pay M.'s debt to J. B. A., gave his obligation directly to him, J. B. A., promising if he purchased a certain slave of R. A. he would pay H. his claim on R. A.: held this agreement of J. B. A. was a nudum pactum, and ineffectual. *3 Admitting the premises to be true, the conclusion does not however follow as a natural consequence. For if it be true as we have attempted already to prove, that before the note was executed by Harris to John B. Amos, the former was under a moral and equitable obligation to pay the demand of the latter, it is not discerned how that obligation can have been impaired or relaxed by the voluntary assurance given by J. B. Amos, that the debts of Harris on Ransom would be paid on the event of the negro being purchased. If the negro had been in fact purchased, and John B. Amos had received a credit in the price for the amount of Harris' debts, there would have been much propriety in compelling John B. Amos to apply the credits so received, in satisfaction of the judgment against Harris, but it is not pretended that the full price of the negro which he purchased was not paid to Ransom Amos, nor is it conceived how, in making the purchase, he could have compelled Ransom Amos to allow the debts due by him to Harris, to go in part satisfaction of the price. The promise of J. B. Amos predicated upon the future purchase of the negro, cannot be viewed in any other light than a mere nudum pactum. It was induced by no valuable consideration. He received nothing as a consideration to which he was not previously entitled; Harris paid nothing, and came under no obligation to pay any thing that he was not previously bound to pay. There was neither benefit to the one, nor loss or prejudice to the other. The decree is affirmed with damages on the damages decreed in the court below. The appellant is to pay cost in this court. Crittenden and Monroe, for appellant; Mayes, for appellee. Ky.App. 1828. Harris v. Amos 6 T.B.Mon. 563, 22 Ky. 563, 1828 WL 1183 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
