(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 486,  8 Ky. 486 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1058 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. George Carlisle v. T. B. Long. Apr. 26, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERS7 A JUDGMENT OF THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 883(6) 228 Judgment 228XX Payment, Satisfaction, Merger, and Discharge 228k883 Set-Off of Judgments 228k883(6) k. Set-Off of Judgments Between Different Parties.  Most Cited Cases In an action of debt brought on an appeal bond, the defendant may plead by way of set-off a judgment recovered by him against plaintiff prior to commencement of the action, and the fact that the judgment appealed from was for the benefit of another, and the action on the bond is prosecuted for his benefit, will not defeat such right. Pleading 302 k 173 302 Pleading 302IV Replication or Reply and Subsequent Pleadings 302k173 k. Form and Requisites of Replication in General. Most Cited Cases To a plea setting off a former judgment against the plaintiff to his present demand, a replication that the present demand is in the right of another should set forth the contract by which that other became interested. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of debt brought by Long against Carlisle upon a bond, conditioned for the faithful prosecution of an appeal taken by Carlisle to a judgment of the Woodford circuit court, rendered in favor of Long. Carlisle, by way of set-off, pleaded a judgment which he alleges to have recovered in the same court against Long, before the commencement of the present action, and which he avers still remains in full force and unreversed, &c. To this plea Long replied, that the judgment appealed from although obtained in his name, was for the benefit of Joseph Kinkead, and moreover avers that the present suit is also prosecuted for Kinkead's benefit, &c. Whereupon Carlisle demurred, and Long having joined in demurrer, judgment was rendered against Carlisle, upon the ground of his plea being defective. We have no doubt but that the circuit court decided incorrectly in adjudging the plea insufficient. The judgment no doubt imports prima facie, a proper subject to set off, and the plea in apt and appropriate form presents every allegation essential to a valid bar. Notwithstanding, however, the court may have erred in their determination upon Carlisle's plea, it is proper, as the decision was given upon his demurrer to Long's replication, that we should examine the sufficiency of that replication. On a plea setting off a former judgment against the plaintiff, to his present demand, he may reply in avoidance of the plea, that the present demand is in right of another; but to render such replication valid, it should set forth the contract by which that other became interested. And with respect to the replication, we are of opinion it furnishes no sufficient matter in avoidance of the plea. Assuming Kinkead to have been the equitable assignee of the demand upon which the judgment, alluded to in the replication, was obtained, there is no doubt but that his interest might have been protected by the court before which the cause was prosecuted. And if equitably entitled to the beneficial interest of that demand, as the present action is alleged to have been brought upon a bond given in an appeal from that judgment, he must also be considered as the equitable assignee in the case now before the court, and consequently, not only entitled to the protection, which should be extended to a person becoming beneficially interested in the suit depending but, moreover, as the present suit has grown out of, and forms an appendage to, a former one between the same parties, he should, now, obtain the protection which might, in that case have been extended to him. *2 Either to a plea in the former, or present action, therefore, we apprehend, it is competent for Kinkead, by a replication with appropriate averments, to show in avoidance such facts and circumstances as may bring himself within the controlling influence of those by which protection may be extended to equitable assignees. But whilst the admissibility of such a replication is conceded, it is denied that the replication to which Carlisle demurred is one of that character. That replication, it is true, alleges the former suit to have been prosecuted for the benefit of Kinkead, but that allegation, without setting forth the contract, if any, by which Kinkead obtained the benefit, certainly is not calculated to show such an investment of the equitable interest, as to avoid an otherwise valid bar. We are therefore, of opinion, that the court should have sustained Carlisle's demurrer, and that the judgment must consequently be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with permission to the defendant in error, if he should apply for leave to do so, to amend his replication, otherwise for judgment to be entered in favor of Carlisle upon the demurrer, and such other and further proceedings then had, as may be consistent with this opinion. Pope, for plaintiff; Wickliffe, for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1819. Carlisle v. Long 1 A.K.Marsh. 486, 8 Ky. 486, 1819 WL 1058 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
