(Cite as: 2 Bibb 569,  5 Ky. 569 (Ky.),  1812 WL 624 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rochester v. Anderson. Spring Term, 1812. *1 Upon a writ of error coram vobis grounded on the death of a party, the scire facias to hear errors should issus?? against the executor or administrator. If the sheriff return the defendant alive, he may plead in nullo est erratum; if the sheriff return the executor or administrator warned, the Court will proceed to hear the errors assigned. Judgment for ten per cent. damages on affirmance by the Court below in error coram vobis, is warranted by the statute. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 410 30 Appeal and Error 30VII Transfer of Cause 30VII(D) Writ of Error, Citation, or Notice 30k410 k. Scire Facias to Hear Errors. Most Cited  Cases Upon a writ of error coram vobis, grounded upon the death of a party, the scire facias to hear errors should issue against his executor or administrator, and a writ issuing against the party himself is erroneous. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. Judge WALLACE absent. ANDERSON recovered judgment against Rochester, in the Mercer Circuit Court, and had an execution issued thereon, which was replevied by Rochester. After the expiration of the replevin bond, another execution issued in favor of Anderson. Rochester petitioned the judges of said Court, ??alleging the death of Anderson, and praying a writ of error coram vobis, which was awarded him. A scire facias to hear errors issued from the clerk's office of Mercer Circuit Court, against Anderson, and was returned by the sheriff, not found. Anderson's attornies appeared and pleaded that he was not dead, upon which plea issue was joined, and verdict and judgment had in favor of Anderson; to reverse which Rochester has prosecuted this appeal. The first inquiry presented for the consideration of this Court is, as to the legality of the proceedings had by Rochester. To entitle him to a reversal of the judgment, it must appear that the proceedings on his part are correct, and as such will justify a judgment in his favor. Notwithstanding errors may have been committed against him, it would be improper and illegal to reverse the judgment, unless the proceedings on his part are correct and legal. That the death of Anderson would prevent any further proceedings being had in his favor until regularly revived, will not be denied; and it is equally evident that any proceedings had against him in his name after his decease, are also erroneous. In a writ of error coram vobis grounded on the death of the party, the scire facias to hear errors should issue against the executor or administrator of the defendant in error, and if the sheriff return he is alive, then he may plead in nullo est erratum; but if the sheriff return he has warned the executor or adminis trator, that will be sufficient ground for the Court to proceed to hear errors--2 Saund. 101. The proceedings therefore on the part of Rochester, are erroneous. The only remaining question necessary to be decided in this case is, whether the Court acted correctly in adjudging ten per cent. damages in favor of Anderson. The decision of this question depends on the construction of the act of 1802. It was adjudged by this Court in the case of Lansdel v. Finley, Hard. Rep. 153, that by the letter and true spirit and meaning of the act, ten per cent. damages is given in cases like the present. We see no good reason for departing from that construction, but think it correct. *2 Judgment affirmed, with damages and costs. Ky.App. 1812. Rochester v. Anderson 2 Bibb 569, 5 Ky. 569, 1812 WL 624 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
