(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 87,  17 Ky. 87 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1492 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Adam v. Hodgen. Oct. 12, 1824. *1 Practice, Assignor and Assignee, Pleading by Defendant, Evidence. ERROR TO THE GRAYSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 956(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(H) Discretion of Lower Court 30k956 Extension of Time, and Proceedings Out of Time and Nunc  Pro Tunc 30k956(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a special plea is offered at a term after general issue pleaded, the court has a discretion either to permit it to be filed or not;  and, unless the record shows this discretion to have been improperly exercised, error cannot be assigned. Assignments 38 k 132 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k130 Pleading 38k132 k. Issues, Proof, and Variance. Most Cited  Cases In an action by an assignee against his immediate assignor after failure to recover of the obligor on the assigned obligation, the assignor could not, under the general issue, show that the assignee had given the obligor a new credit under an agreement to accept something else in lieu of a performance of the contract, and had refused to accept performance of the obligation on the day it fell due. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action of assumpsit, brought by Hodgen, to recover of Adam, his immediate assignor of an obligation which had been executed by J. Hedges to G. L. Rogers, for the payment of one hundred and fifty dollars in horses, and by Rogers assigned to Adam, and by Adam assigned to Hodgen, before the horses became payable. When a special plea is offered at a term after general issue pleaded, the court possess a discretion either to permit it to be filed or not; and unless the record proves this discretion to have been improperly exercised, error can not be assigned. The declaration sets out the obligation, together with the several assignments thereon, and avers the exercise of due and proper diligence by suit against the obligor, Hedges, and the failure to collect of him the amount or any part thereof. Non assumpsit was pleaded, and the trial was had in the court below upon that issue. Previous, however, to calling the jury to try the issue, a special plea in bar of the action was tendered by Adam; but the plea was rejected by the court, and by the assignment of errors the decision of the court not allowing the plea to be filed, is questioned. The right of the assignee to recover against the assignor, rests on the responsibility of the defendant as assignor; therefore any evidence which tends to disprove that responsibility, is admissible under the general issue. In responding to this question, it is not necessary that we should examine the validity of the rejected plea; for, admitting it to contain sufficient matter to bar the action, as it was not presented to the court until a subsequent term after the general issue was pleaded, the court unquestionably possessed a discretion either to permit it to be filed or not; and the record exhibits nothing to show that discretion to have been improperly exercised. We can not, therefore, say that the court erred in excluding the plea. *2 But we are of opinion that the court erred in not allowing evidence offered by Adam, to go to the jury. The right of Hodgen to recover, rests upon the responsibility of Adam as assignor of the obligation which was given by Hedges to Rogers, and of course any evidence which tends to disprove that responsibility, was competent on the trial of the general issue. The rejected evidence, we think, was fully calculated to produce that result. The evidence went to prove, that by an arrangement made between Hodgen and Hedges, a new credit was given to the latter, under an agreement with the former to receive the amount of the obligation in carpenter's work, and that, in consequence of that arrangement, Hodgen actually refused to accept from Rogers the amount of the obligation in horses, on the day and at the place the obligation required payment. Evidence that the assignee had given the obligor a new credit, under an agreement to receive something else in lieu of performance, and had refused to accept performance of the obligation itself, on the day it fell due, is admissible under the general issue. The evidence ought not, therefore, to have been excluded, and, consequently, the judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Crittenden, for plaintiff; Hardin, Haggin, &c., for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Adam v. Hodgen 1 T.B.Mon. 87, 17 Ky. 87, 1824 WL 1492 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
