(Cite as: 2 J.J.Marsh. 597,  25 Ky. 597 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1337 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lunderman v. Lunderman. Oct. 14, 1828. *1 Indebitatus Assumpsit. Counts. Pleadings. Commonwealth's Bank Paper. ERROR TO THE SPENCER CIRCUIT; WM. L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Implied and Constructive Contracts 205H k 83.1 205H Implied and Constructive Contracts 205HII Actions 205HII(B) Pleading 205Hk83 Issues, Proof, and Variance 205Hk83.1 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 264k17(3)  Money Received) Assumpsit for money had and received is not supported by evidence of the receipt of bank paper or other property. Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 5 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k3 Grounds 42k5 k. Common counts. Most Cited Cases Indebitatus assumpsit will not lie for commonwealth paper. Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 19 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k17 Pleading 42k19 k. Declaration. Most Cited Cases A general indebitatus count should set out the legal liability of a defendant for the debt charged, and also his promise to pay in consideration thereof. JUDGE OWSLEY delivered the opinion of the Court. The defendant in error, who was plaintiff in the circuit court, declared against the plaintiffs in error, who were defendants in that court, in three counts, the latter of which was demurred to, and the demurrer was overruled. The case turns, in this court, upon the sufficiency of that count. By it, the defendants in the circuit court are alleged to have been indebted to the plaintiff there, in the sum of one hundred and fourteen dollars and ninety cents, Commonwealth's Bank paper; for the like amount of Commonwealth's Bank paper, before that time, at the special instance and request of the defendants, by the plaintiff laid out and expended for the use and benefit of the said defendants; and being so indebted, the said defendants afterwards, to-wit: the day and year, &c., in consideration thereof, then and there undertook and faithfully promised the said plaintiff, that they would, well and truly content and pay the said plaintiff, the said sum of one hundred and fourteen dollars and ninety cents, Commonwealth's Bank paper, whenever after, they should be thereunto required, &c. If, instead of alleging the defendants to have been indebted Commonwealth's Bank paper, for so much like paper before that time, at their special instance and request, laid out and expended by the plaintiff, for their use and benefit, the plaintiff had alleged the defendants to have been indebted to him so much money, for Commonwealth's Bank paper, before that time laid out and expended by him, for their use and benefit, at their special instance and request, and had charged the defendants, in consideration of being so indebted, so much money, to have promised to content and pay the plaintiff the said sum of money. &c., we should have had no difficulty in sustaining the count as containing a good cause of action. The count would then have contained every essential requisite to a general indebitatus count, and might have been sustained upon principles long since adopted and repeatedly acted on and recognized in practice. The legal liability of the defendants, for the debt charged, would then, as is always essential for it to be in general indebitatus counts, be found set forth in the declaration, and the promise which, in such counts, should also be alleged to have been made, in consideration of that legal liability, would likewise be seen charged in apt and legal form. But as drawn, there is no legal liability for the Commonwealth's paper, of which the defendants are charged to be indebted in the count. The facts upon which their liability are to be enforced, if liable at all, from the statements in the count, are nothing more than that, at their special instance and request, the plaintiff had, for their use, and benefit, laid out and expended one hundred and fourteen dollars and ninety cents, Commonwealth's money. These facts, if true, no doubt created a liability in the defendant's, but the liability which, without the aid of other facts, the law implies, is not for Commonwealth's Bank paper, but for their value in money. *2 General indebitatus count, should set out legal liability of defendant for debt charged, and also his promise to pay, in consideration thereof. Liabilities when implied by law, are for money. Hence, general indebitatus counts are always for money, and nothing else but money. It is upon this principle that liabilities, when implied by law, are for money, that general indebitatus counts are always for money, and nothing else but money. To sustain such a count for Commonwealth's Bank paper, or any other commodity, therefore, we should not only have to push the practice, which, as Lord Holt once appropriately remarked, required a bold man, first to venture upon, farther than any precedent, has hitherto carried it, but also, farther than could be maintained, consistently with the principles by which the practice is governed. General indebitatus count, charging defendant to be indebted in commonwealths bank paper, for so much like paper laid out, &c., and in consideration thereof, to have promised to pay in commonwealths bank paper, is bad on demurrer. It should charge him to be indebted in money, and to have promised to pay money. The count is not, therefore, good, and the demurrer should have been sustained. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and judgment there entered in favor of the defendants in that count, upon their demurrer to the count, unless the plaintiff obtains leave, and amends it; and in that event, such further proceedings be there had, as may not be inconsistent with the principles of this opinion. Mayes, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1828. Lunderman v. Lunderman 2 J.J.Marsh. 597, 25 Ky. 597, 1828 WL 1337 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
