(Cite as: 4 Bibb 345,  7 Ky. 345 (Ky.),  1816 WL 761 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Defour v. Bourne. May 29, 1816. *1 A parol sale of a slave without delivery, passes a complete right to the purchaser. Proof that a slave was delivered under a contract, to be held until the sum of 501. was paid, and that the reasonable hire of the slave during the period of possession exceeded that sum, will not avail the pledgor of the slave in a suit of law, unless it be proved that the hire was to go in satisfaction for the money lent. On abstract propositions of law the Court is not bound to instruct the jury. West Headnotes Slaves 356 k 7 356 Slaves 356k7 k. Transfers of Slaves. Most Cited Cases A parol sale of a slave, without delivery, passes a complete right to the purchaser. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an appeal from a judgment of the Court below, rendered in favor of Bourne, in an action of detinue brought by her in that Court to recover of Defour a negro boy named Jerry. It is assigned for error that the Court erred in refusing to give the instructions asked for by Defour. In whatever point of view the evidence in this cause be considered, we have no doubt the Court properly refused to give the instructions. If a parol sale, unaccompanied with a delivery of possession, is proven to have been made to Bourne, then as by that sale she not only became entitled to the negro, but to his immediate possession, the Court clearly done right in refusing to instruct the jury that no right passed to Bourne. And if the evidence proved the slave was delivered to Bourne under a contract to hold him until she should be paid the sum of fifty pounds, and if that sum was not proven to be paid, the Court unquestionably done right in refusing to instruct the jury to find for Defour, even if they should be of opinion from the evidence that Bourne had continued possessed of the negro for so long a time as the reasonable hire of the negro would exceed the fifty pounds. For as the evidence in no manner conduced to prove the hire of the negro by the agreement of Bourne was to go in satisfaction of the fifty pounds, whatever relief might be obtained in equity, it is perfectly clear that at law her right to the possession of the negro cannot be affected thereby; and consequently for that cause the jury should not have been instructed to find against her. With respect to the other point upon which the instructions were asked, it need only be remarked, that as it was a mere abstract proposition, not at all pertinent to the case, the Court properly withheld their instructions. Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the verdict accords perfectly with the evidence in the cause, and that the Court decided correctly in withholding the instructions from the jury, and rendering judgment in favor of the appellee. The judgment must be affirmed, with costs and damages upon the damages. Ky.App. 1816. Defour v. Bourne 4 Bibb 345, 7 Ky. 345, 1816 WL 761 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
