(Cite as: 5 Litt. 176,  15 Ky. 176 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1402 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Clay v. Johnson, &c. May 26, 1824. *1 FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JESSE BLEDSOE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 97(1) 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(E) Consideration 56k97 Failure of Consideration 56k97(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A plea to an action on a note that it was made and executed without any good or valuable consideration rendered by plaintiff to the defendants, or either of them, is no bar to the action. BEN. HARDIN and HAGGIN for appellant; SHARP and BIBB for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was a petition and summons, brought in the circuit court of Clay against Johnson, &c., upon a note for two thousand one hundred and eighty dollars, given by the latter to the former on the 28th of October, 1818, and payable eighteen months after date. In debt, on a bond, the defendants pleaded that "the note was made and executed without any good or valuable consideration rendered by the plaintiff and received by the defendants, or either of them:" Held that it was no bar to the action?? and an issue taken thereon is immaterial, although the plaintiff may have traversed its allegations. The defendants pleaded two pleas: 1st, Payment; 2d, that the note was made and executed without any good or valuable consideration rendered by the plaintiff and received by the defendants, or either of them. To the first plea, the plaintiff replied generally, alleging that the defendants have not paid the debt, &c. and concluding by tendering an issue to the country. To the second plea, the plaintiff replied, that the note was not executed without any good or valuable consideration, and concludes also by tendering an issue to the country. A jury was called to try these issues, and after hearing the evidence, found a verdict for the defendants. The plaintiff then moved the court for a new trial; but his motion was overruled, and judgment rendered in conformity to the verdict. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the court in refusing a new trial, and the whole of the evidence spread upon the record. The new trial was asked for, on the ground of the court having erred in its instructions to the jury, and on the ground of the verdict being against evidence. The assignment of errors questions the correctness of the decision of the court on the motion for a new trial. An issue requires the opposing allegations of each party. It was not pretended in argument, that the evidence produced on the trial, establishes the fact of payment, as alleged by the defendants in their first plea. The finding of the jury upon the issue to that plea, was undefended in argument, and is totally unsupported by evidence. But it was not to try the issue to that plea only, that the jury were sworn. They were called to try the issues made up by the parties to both of the defendants' pleas, and the verdict is general upon both issues. It does not, therefore, follow as a necessary consequence, from the absence of proof to support the first issue, that the verdict of the jury upon both issues is contrary to evidence. *2 If there are two issues, one immaterial, and no evidence is given to support the good issue, a verdict rendered for the defendant, by a jury sworn to try the issues, is irregular and should be set aside. But, before we examine the evidence in relation to the second issue, it is proper to enquire as to the materiality of that issue; for if it be immaterial, the verdict which is against evidence on the first issue, derives no support from any evidence in relation to the immaterial issue, and of course ought not to be permitted to stand. And that the second issue is immaterial, will be the more clearly perceived by adverting to the allegations of the second plea. The object of that plea is to impeach the consideration of the note upon which the plaintiff's action is founded; and its sufficiency for that purpose would be admitted, if it contained an allegation denying the note to have been given upon any consideration. But it contains no such allegation. The plea barely alleges that the note was made and executed without any good or valuable consideration rendered by the plaintiff and received by the defendants, or either of them. Now, according to no rational interpretation, can this plea be construed into a denial of the note having been given upon any valid consideration. It might be so construed, if a receipt of the consideration by either of the defendants was essential to its validity; but the doctrine is well settled, that such a receipt is not essential to the validity of a consideration. Either a prejudice to the promisee, or a benefit to the promisor, constitutes a sufficient consideration to uphold a promise. The allegations of the plea may, therefore, be true, and yet the note may have been given upon a valid consideration; so that, in point of law, the matter contained in the plea forms no good defence to the action. It is true, the replication of the plaintiff is more comprehensive than the plea; but if we are correct in supposing that the plea contains no sufficient bar to the action, the replication unquestionably can not have tendered a material issue. It requires the apposing allegations of each party, to form an issue; and of course that issue must be immaterial, which is formed by the plaintiff's traversing the allegations of an insufficient plea. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and a new trial there awarded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1824. Clay v. Johnson 5 Litt. 176, 15 Ky. 176, 1824 WL 1402 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
