(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 249,  10 Ky. 249 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1769 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Fowler v. The Trustees of Lexington. Apr. 7, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 19(1) 241 Limitation of Actions 241I Statutes of Limitation 241I(B) Limitations Applicable to Particular Actions 241k19 Recovery of Real Property 241k19(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases After a lapse of more than 20 years, a claim for damages for nonconveyance of land is barred. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was a bill in equity exhibited by Fowler in the circuit court, for the purpose of obtaining title to Lot h, in the town of Lexington, the equity whereof he asserts through James M'Bride, dec'd. who it is alleged, was entitled to a conveyance as an original settler in the town. That M'Bride, at one time, was entitled to the lot, is not denied by the defendants; and it is admitted, that Fowler is entitled to any relief which could, now, be granted to M'Bride, if he were still living, and complainant in the present contest; but they allege, that in consequence of his failing to comply with the orders, and resolutions, made by the board of trustees, in about 1782, or 1783, M'Bride forfeited his right to the lot, and shortly, thereafter, the trustees conveyed the lot to M'Dermid, under whom the defendants, other than the trustees, claim, alleging, themselves to be the purchasers for a valuable consideration without notice of the claim of M'Bride; and all the defendants, insist and rely upon the staleness of the demand asserted by Fowler, and a continued adverse possession in M'Dermid and those claiming under him for upwards of thirty years. On a final hearing, the circuit court pronounced a decree dismissing Fowler's bill with cost. The correctness of that decree, is now presented for the revision of this court, by Fowler. In deciding on Fowler's rights to relief against the defendants claiming under M'Dermid, the only question to which the attention of this court need be directed, involves an enquiry into the fact, of a deed having been executed by the trustees to M'Dermid. If such a deed were executed, as the defendants claiming under M'Dermid, are admitted to be purchasers under him, and there is no evidence of their having had notice of the claim of M'Bride, it is perfectly clear, that whatever equity that claim might confer on Fowler as against the trustees, it can not authorize a decree against the other defendants. With respect to the fact of a deed having been executed to M'Dermid, by the trustees, the evidence is not as explicit as might be desired. It is, however, we apprehend, sufficient to warrant the inference, that such a deed was given. There is some contrariety of evidence, as to the precise time when M'Dermid obtained possession of the lot; but it is admitted by the parties, that in 1785 he was in possession, claiming it as his own, and that he, and those claiming under him, have continued in the undisputed possession from that time, until the commencement of the present contest. It is proven, that M'Bride, in 1785, resided in the vicinity of Lexington, and continued to live in that neighborhood, without asserting claim to the lot, till his death, in 1790 or 1791; and that, in 1795, Fowler obtained from the representatives of M'Bride, the deed under which he now asserts claim, but there is no evidence of his ever having asserted any claim, until 1816, when his present bill was filed. It is also proven, that before 1785 it being supposed that M'Bride had forfeited his claim to the lot, a certain Brabson and Collins put up each their claim and Collins proves that his claim was approved by the trustees, and that he, thereafter, sold it to M'Dermid, and gave him an order to the trustees for a deed; and it is proven by Graham, that having purchased Brabson's claim, he sold and transferred it to M'Dermid, in 1785. *2 There is no deed, or copy of a deed from any public record, purporting to have been made by the trustees to M'Dermid, exhibited in the cause; but we are bound to know, from the legislative enactments of the country, that the office of the county court of Fayette, where the deed, it made, would most probably have been recorded, has been consumed by fire. A transcript from the records of the clerk's office of this court, containing memorials of deeds, purporting to have been executed by the trustees of Lexington to M'Dermid, is exhibited in the record; but from those memorials, it does not distinctly appear, that any deed has ever been executed by the trustees to M'Dermid for lot h.--One of those memorials purports to be for lot p, and it is proven in the cause, that M'Dermid never put up any claim to lot p, but that lot is shown, to have been conveyed by the trustees to a certain Masterson, in 1783, about two years before the date of the deed to M'Dermid, as recited in the memorial. From the evidence thus detailed, this court can entertain no reasonable doubt, but that a deed was execute by the trustees in 1785, to M'Dermid for the lot h?? now in contest. It would be indulging no great latitude of presumption, to infer the execution of such a deed, from the length of time M'Dermid, and those claiming under him, have held the undisturbed possession of the lot. Twenty years undisturbed possession has been held sufficient to raise such a presumption, (Peak, Ev. 326); and in the present case, M'Dermid is not only admitted to have held the possession of the lot, claiming it as his own, in 1785, but that possession appears to have been continued from that time, by him and those claiming under him, under circumstances, conducing rather, to fortify than weaken the presumption resulting, in ordinary cases from the lapse of time. The only circumstance seeming to militate against the presumption, is, that of the memorials of deeds taken from the records of the clerk's office of this court. But when it is recollected, that the lot p, had been conveyed by the trustees to Masterson about two years before the date of the deed recited in the memorial; that M'Dermid, if not residing on the lot h, at the time, received the possession thereof, shortly after, and never put up any claim to lot p; and that the lot h has continued in the undisturbed possession of M'Dermid and those claiming under him, from that time, to the commencement of this suit-- when these facts are recollected, and the peculiar form the letter described in the memorial is adverted to, it becomes highly probable that the lot was conveyed by the deed referred to in the memorial, and that the form of the letter has undergone a slight change by negligence, either in recording or copying. If, then, we are correct in supposing that a deed was made by the trustees to M'Dermid, it follows, that no relief ought to be given to Fowler against the defendants who hold under him as purchasers for a valuable consideration, without notice, and consequently as to them the bill was properly dismissed. *3 We are also of opinion that the bill was correctly dismissed as to the trustees. For, admitting that Fowler has shown a valid right to the lot, when it was conveyed by the trustees to M'Dermid, after that conveyance was made, the only remedy to which Fowler could be entitled, was a pecuniary compensation against the trustees; and as the conveyance must be presumed to have been made by the trustees in 1785, the lapse of time, since then forms an insuperable bar, both at law and equity, to the demand of Fowler. The decree must be affirmed with cost. Ky.App. 1821. Fowler v. Trustees of Lexington 3 A.K.Marsh. 249, 10 Ky. 249, 1821 WL 1769 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
