(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 398,  10 Ky. 398 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1109 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Milly Carrico, Adm'x v. Thomas Lilly. May 29, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 456(5) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k456 Costs 162k456(5) k. Individual Liability of Executor or  Administrator. Most Cited Cases A judgment for costs should not be given against an executor to be paid out of his own estate. The judgment should be ordered to be paid out of the assets in his hands to be administered, or which may thereafter come to his hands to be administered. New Trial 275 k 171 275 New Trial 275IV Proceedings at New Trial 275k171 k. Amendment of Pleadings and Other Proceedings. Most Cited Cases If, after a new trial is awarded, plaintiff amends his declaration and changes the nature of his demand, he thereby waives all exceptions to the new trial. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: There was an action of asumpsit brought by Carrico against Lilly in the circuit court. The declaration contains various counts; and the defendant Lilly, pleaded the general issue. A trial was had and one hundred dollars damages assessed by the jury on the first count in the declaration; and as to the other counts, a verdict was found for the defendant, Lilly. On the motion of Lilly, a new trial was awarded, and exceptions taken, as well to the court's granting a new trial as to other opinions and decisions given in the progress of the trial. At a subsequent term, Carrico obtained leave of the court and amended her declaration; and a second trial being had, a general verdict was found for Lilly; and judgment thereon rendered in his favor in bar of Carrico's action. To reverse that judgment this writ of error is prosecuted. We have not deemed it proper to examine such of the assignment of errors as question the decisions of the court below in the progress of the first trial and in awarding a new trial. It would have been necessary to have revised those decisions, if by an amendment to her declaration, Carrico had not changed the nature of her cause from what it was on the first trial. For if no such change had taken place, and the second trial had been on the same state of pleadings as the first, in reversing the judgment rendered on the last verdict in favor of Lilly, it would be material to enquire whether, instead of granting a new trial the court should not have rendered judgment in favor of Carrico on the first verdict. But, as by amending her declaration, Carrico has changed her demand against Lilly, no irregularity in setting aside the first verdict can be availing in a writ of error to the judgment rendered on the last verdict. If after a new trial is awarded, the plaintiff amends his declaration and changes the nature of the demand, he waives all exceptions to the new trial. *2 By amending her declaration she must be supposed to have waived all objections to the decision of the court in granting a new trial, and must rely for success upon her ability to establish the demand contained in the declaration as amended. If we are correct in the preceding remarks it follows, that judgment ought to be rendered against Carrico on the last verdict. For there appears to have been no exceptions to any opinion given by the court on that trial, and the assignment of errors present no question in relation to the last trial. But, instead of rendering judgment against Carrico in her personal right for cost, the cost ought to have been directed to be levied out of the assets which were, or might come to her hands as administratrix of the estate of Joseph Carrico, dec. For the assumpsit laid in her declaration is alleged to have been made to her intestate, Joseph Carrico; and in such a case the administratrix cannot be subjected to cost in her personal right. Costs should not be awarded against an administrator in his personal right. The judgment must be reversed with cost, therefore, and the cause remanded, and judgment entered according to this opinion. Littell for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1821. Carrico v. Lilly 3 A.K.Marsh. 398, 10 Ky. 398, 1821 WL 1109 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
