(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 26,  8 Ky. 26 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1133 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Henderson v. Benjamin Howard's Devisees. Oct. 16, 1817. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 100(1) 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k99 Possession Under Color of Title 20k100 Constructive Possession in  General 20k100(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Twenty years' possession, under a vague unsurveyed entry, of land to which another holds the elder patent, affords protection only to the extent of the close. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 68 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak68 k. Notice of taking. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k56(2)  Depositions) A deposition taken under the act, to ascertain the boundaries of land, cannot be used against a person known to the party taking it, and living in the county where the land lies, unless he had notice. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This ejectment was brought to recover the possession of a tract of land, to which the appellees, who were plaintiffs in the court below, held the elder patent. The appellant, (the defendant in that court), claimed the land under an adverse title, and upon the trial relied upon an adverse possession for twenty years before the commencement of the action, as a bar to the appellees right of entry; but the court being of opinion, upon the case agreed, that the appellee's possession twenty years before the commencement of the suit, was circumscribed by his actual close, rendered judgment against him for the residue of the tract claimed by the appellees; but for so much as was actually enclosed, gave judgment for the appellant. From the case agreed, there can be no question but that the appellee's right of entry is barred for so much of the land in contest as was possessed by the appellant and those through whom he holds, twenty years before the commencement of this action. Before that time the patent under which the appellees claim, had emanated, and whatever doubts may exist as to the competency of the evidence by which the appellant attempted to deduce the title under which the possession held by him was first acquired, it is perfectly clear, the possession was taken under color or claim of title, and as such, in legal contemplation, was an ouster of the possession as to those under whom the appellees claim; and as the possession so acquired is admitted to have been continued down to the present time, adversely, it follows clearly, that for so much as was then possessed, the appellees have no right of entry, and consequently can not recover in this form of action. In deciding the present contest, therefore, we are presented with the enquiry, how far the possession which the appellant now holds, extended twenty years before the commencement of this action? 20 years possessession, under a a vague, unsurveyed entry, affords protection only to the extent of the close. *2 In responding to this enquiry, we perfectly accord with the court below, in confining the possession at that date to the actual close. This we are induced to do, because from the facts agreed, the appellant's survey appears not to have been then made, nor had the possession at that time any definite boundary beyond the actual close. The entry under which the appellant claims, it is true, had been previously made; but if, in any case, the constructive boundary of an entry can give limits to a possession, (and whether it can or not, we would not be understood as now deciding), we have no doubt the entry of the appellant can not have such an operation. For by the case agreed, the question of the competency of the evidence by which the identity of the object called for in the entry is attempted to be proven, is reserved for the decision of this court, and upon reviewing the question so reserved, we have no hesitation in excluding the evidence. The evidence which we thus suppose to be incompetent, is that of a witness proving what was contained in the deposition of a certain Benoni Swearingen, taken by commissioners under an act of assembly, entitled an act to ascertain the boundaries of and processioning land,FNa but which, by the destruction of the Fayette office by fire, has also been destroyed; but, as the owner of the appellees' claim was, at the time of taking the deposition, known to the owner of the appellant's entry, and then resided in the county where the land lies, notice of the time and place of taking the deposition should have been served upon the then owner, to make the deposition evidence against those claiming through him; but as no such notice appears to have been given, it follows inevitably, that parol evidence of the contents of the deposition, was inadmissible. FNa.  1 Litt., 554. A deposition taken under the act to ascertain the boundaries of land, can not be used against a person known to the party taking it, and living in the county where the land lies, unless he had notice. The entry therefore, under which the appellant claims, as it is not by any thing in the cause identified with the land in contest, it can not, upon any possible principle, give limits to the appellant's possession. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Hughes, for appellant; Pope, Wickliffe, and Hardin, for appellees. Ky.App. 1817. Henderson v. Howard's Devisees 1 A.K.Marsh. 26, 8 Ky. 26, 1817 WL 1133 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
