(Cite as: 4 Bibb 465,  7 Ky. 465 (Ky.),  1816 WL 832 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Davis v. Simms, etc. Dec. 2, 1816. *1 Where a list of nonresidents' lands is advertised on extra sheets to accompany the newspaper of the public printer, a number equal to the subscribers must be published, or the sale made under it will be void. West Headnotes Taxation 371 k 2917 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(L) Sale of Land for Nonpayment of Tax 371k2911 List of Lands Delinquent 371k2917 k. Publication. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 371k630) Where a list of nonresidents' lands is advertised on extra sheets to accompany the newspaper of the public printer, a number equal to the subscribers must be published, or the sale made under it will be void. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an appeal from a judgment rendered against the appellant in an ejectment brought by him in the Court below. The patent under which he claims issued to the appellees, but he asserts the better right to the land under a sale and conveyance made by the register of the land office for the nonpayment of the tax due for the year 1805. From the facts agreed by the parties, it appears the public printer failed to insert in the paper edited by him the list of nonresidents' lands subject to be sold for the nonpayment of taxes for the year 1805, as made out by the register; but that he printed on separate sheets, which accompanied his paper, those lists, not however in sufficient numbers for all of his subscribers, but upon the first six publications in the proportion of two thirds to the whole number of subscribers, and upon the five remaining publications in the proportion of about one half; and whether upon these facts the sale and conveyance of the register is invalid, is the only inquiry for the consideration of this Court. If the publication of the printer be admitted not to conform to the requisitions of the law, it is perfectly clear, according to the case of Allen, etc. v. Robinson, (2 Bibb 326) that Davis cannot have gained a valid title under the sale of the register. According to that case, a failure to advertise for three months before the day of sale, is at law an insuperable objection to a conveyance made by the register: and if so, upon the same principle any other irregularity in advertising must be attended with the same consequence. That the publication of the printer, as admitted to have been made, does not conform to the law we have no doubt. Although, if contained in extra sheets accompanying the principal paper, the publication might be sufficient, yet by requiring it to be made in the gazette of the public printer, the legislature must have intended to give it a circulation equal to that which the gazette might have. The sheets containing the publication should, therefore, to comply with the law, have been as numerous as the subscribers to the paper; but as that is admitted not to have been the case, we are of opinion the Court below properly decided the title of Davis was invalid. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. Davis v. Simms 4 Bibb 465, 7 Ky. 465, 1816 WL 832 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
