(Cite as: 3 Bibb 229,  6 Ky. 229 (Ky.),  1813 WL 662 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Dowell v. Logsdon, etc. Nov. 24, 1813. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 365 150 Equity 150VII Dismissal Before Hearing 150k360 Involuntary Dismissal 150k365 k. Dismissal Without Prejudice. Most Cited  Cases Where a complainant neglected to prosecute his suit for four or five years, and, when called, refused to proceed, the bill was dismissed without prejudice. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a decree of the Bullitt Circuit Court, dismissing the bill of the plaintiff in error, who was complainant in that Court. The chancellor has power to dismiss the complainant's bill, without prejudice for gross negligence in failing to prepare his suit, without showing cause for delay. Cause depending four or five years, and when regularly called the complainant obstinately refuses to proceed, the chancellor will in the exercise of his discretion dismiss his bill, but without prejudice to his right to bring a new bill. The dismission seems not to have been made on a hearing upon the merits, but for a failure of the complainant to prosecute his suit. That for gross negligence in a complainant's failing to prepare his cause as to all necessary parties, the Court has the power to dismiss his bill without prejudice, we have no doubt; and if Courts in any case have such power, the one under consideration appears particularly to have required the exercise of that power. The complainant appears to have failed to prepare his cause as to all the defendants, without showing any just cause for the failure, although his suit had been depending four or five years; and when regularly called on the docket, he obstinately refused to proceed. Under these circumstances the Court below, in the proper exercise of their discretion, dismissed the bill, though not so expressed, yet in effect without prejudice. That decree we are of opinion, is correct. It must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1813. McDowell v. Logsdon 3 Bibb 229, 6 Ky. 229, 1813 WL 662 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
