(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 155,  19 Ky. 155 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1256 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. White v. Green. Apr. 11, 1826. *1 Conditions. Elections. Currency. Statutes. Damages. Practice. New Trial. Error. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 76(1) 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(F) Verdict or Findings Contrary to Law or Evidence 275k76 Excessive Damages 275k76(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where the criterion of damages is fixed by law, if the jury, after judgment by default, assess too great an amount, the court should set aside the verdict. Damages 115 k 125 115 Damages 115VI Measure of Damages 115VI(C) Breach of Contract 115k125 k. Failure to Pay Money. Most Cited  Cases On a covenant to pay one of two sums, one in paper and the other in specie, the damage for the breach is the value of the less valuable of the two, with interest. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Covenant declared upon. This was an action of covenant, brought in the circuit court, by Green, upon the following writing, to-wit: "On or before the first day of March next, I promise to pay Levi Green, the just and full sum of one hundred dollars, in Commonwealth's paper, or fifty dollars in silver, for value received of him, as witness my hand and seal, this 28th day of August, 1824. JOHN WHITE, (seal.)" Default was made by White, and on executing a writ of inquiry, one hundred and one dollars and fifty cents damages were assessed by the jury, and judgment therefor rendered by the court. Judgment by default. To reverse that judgment, this writ of error, with supersedeas, has been prosecuted by White. The assignment of errors questions the propriety of entering judgment for the damages assessed. The damages are unquestionably higher than Green is entitled to recover, according to the settled doctrine of the common law. A payment, on the first day of March, 1825, of either one hundred dollars in Commonwealth's paper, or fifty dollars in silver, would have been a performance of the covenant. The stipulations contained in the writing are, for White to pay one or the other, and of course, the payment of either, would have satisfied the covenant. Assignment of error. Covenantor to pay $100 in Commonwealth's paper or $50 in specie has his election. As the payment of either sum would therefore have discharged the covenant, it results necessarily, that by the failure of White to make payment, Green can not have been injured beyond the value of the lesser sum, and upon common law principles, can not be entitled to recover damages exceeding that value, more than the legal rate of interest per annum thereon from the time payment should have been made. It is obvious, however, that in assessing the damages, the jury were not governed by this rule. The amount assessed, is $101.50 cents, a sum greatly exceeding fifty dollars with interest, so that whatever may have been the value of one hundred dollars Commonwealth's paper, on the first of March, 1825, the damages given by the jury are outrageously excessive. *2 In an action on such a covenant, the measure of damages is $50 with the interest accrued. We know that Green caused to be entered upon the record, that he would accept Commonwealth's bank paper in discharge of the judgment, and it is presumable, that in fixing upon the amount of damages assessed by them, the jury were influenced by the consideration that the damages would be collected in bank paper. But regularly at common law, damages were recoverable in gold or silver only, and the jury were not at liberty to depart from that standard and adopt any other, whatever might be the proposition which the plaintiff should think proper to make, as to his willingness to accept any thing else in discharge or satisfaction of the damages. The statute allowing a recovery in notes on the Bank of the Commonwealth on contracts for such currency, does not apply to obligation to pay that or a less sum in lawful money in the alternative: for obligor had his election. It is true, that in this respect the common law has undergone a change by an act of the Legislature of this country, as relates to contracts for the payment of notes of the Bank of Kentucky, or of the Bank of the Commonwealth, or for the payment of the current paper of the State, if, at the calling or hearing of the suit, the plaintiff makes a written statement on his declaration, in substance, that he is willing to take notes on the Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, in discharge of such debt. But to come within the operation of that act, the contract must be for the payment of the description of paper mentioned in the act, and not a contract such as that upon which this suit is founded, in the alternative, to pay Commonwealth bank paper, or silver. Neither at common law, nor under the statute, therefore, were the jury authorized to find the amount of damages assessed by them against White, and of course their assessment ought to have been set aside by the court below. As there was no application for that purpose, to the court, it would have been otherwise, if by the introduction of extraneous evidence, the finding of the jury might have been warranted, but according to the import of the writing, it is impossible that any extraneous evidence could have justified the assessment of damages made by the jury, and as such, it was incumbent on the court, ex officio, to arrest the finding, and set aside the assessment. Where the criterion of damages is fixed by the law, if the jury, on an enquiry after judgment by default, return too great an amount, the court ought, ex officio, to set it aside. The judgment must, therefore be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, with further proceedings there had not inconsistent with this opinion. Turner, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1826. White v. Green 3 T.B.Mon. 155, 19 Ky. 155, 1826 WL 1256 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
