(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 34,  17 Ky. 34 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1473 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. White v. Walker. Oct. 7, 1824. *1 Pleading by Plaintiff, Abatement. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 193(1) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k193 Grounds for Demurrer to Declaration, Complaint, Petition, or Statement 302k193(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where the sum in the writ is less than either that demanded in the commencement of the declaration or the aggregate of the several counts, the remedy is not by demurrer, as the objection goes in abatement of the declaration and the counts thereof. Abatement and Revival 2 k 31 2 Abatement and Revival 2III Defects and Objections as to Parties and Proceedings 2k31 k. Variance Between Process and Pleading. Most Cited Cases Variances between the writ and declaration are matters pleadable in abatement only, and cannot be taken advantage of on general demurrer to the declaration, or after verdict or plea in chief. Abatement and Revival 2 k 40 2 Abatement and Revival 2III Defects and Objections as to Parties and Proceedings 2k40 k. Necessity and Mode of Making Objection. Most Cited Cases In debt on simple contract, a variance between the sum in the writ and that in the declaration is not matter of demurrer, but of abatement. Debt, Action Of 117G k 11 117G Debt, Action Of 117Gk10 Pleading 117Gk11 k. Declaration. Most Cited Cases It is no cause for demurrer that the declaration in debt on a simple contract demands, in the commencement more than the aggregate of the several counts. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment rendered by the circuit court, sustaining Walker's demurrer to the declaration of White, and determining that White take nothing by his bill, &c. The correctness of that judgment must, we apprehend, turn upon the question, whether or not, in point of law, the facts alleged in the declaration show a cause of action in White, the plaintiff, for which debt can be maintained. (1.) It is possible, that in sustaining the demurrer the court below may not have thought this question was involved; for, although the action is in debt, the declaration, in its commencement, demands a sum greater than by the different counts the plaintiff attempts to claim, and it may have been thought, that in that respect the declaration was insufficient, and the demurrer of the defendant consequently sustained. But it should be remembered, that the action is founded on a simple contract, and the doctrine has long since been settled, that in such a case the plaintiff may recover a less sum than in his declaration he states the defendant to be indebted to him. *2 (1) That the declaration in debt on a simple contract demands, in the commencement, a greater sum than the aggregate of the several counts, is no cause for even special demurrer. Thus, in a case where the declaration recited that the defendant render to the plaintiff L500, in the several counts of the declaration the sums together amounted to but L450, and the declaration concluded, that the defendant had not paid the said L500, or any part thereof, there was a special demurrer, for that cause; but the court held the declaration to be good, on the ground that the plaintiff might recover by verdict, a less sum than he demanded by his writ. 2 Part, page 42, of 1 vol. Esp. N. (2.) But without controverting the correctness of this doctrine, there is another point of view in which it is possible the court below may have supposed the demur??rur ought to be sustained, without intending to decide that the declaration contains no cause of action for which debt can be maintained. Though the aggregate amount of the several counts in the declaration is less than the sum which in the commencement of the declaration the defendant is demanded to render to the plaintiff, it is greater than the debt mentioned in the writ; and as over was prayed by the defendant, of the writ, it is not improbable but what the court may have sustained the demurrer on the ground of the variance between the sum demanded in the declaration and that contained in the writ. (2) That the sum in the writ is less than either that demanded in the commencement of the declaration or the aggregate of the several counts, is matter of abatement of the declaration, not of demurrer. That the debt demanded in the declaration ought not, in actions of debt, to exceed the debt mentioned in the writ, will not be denied; nor will it be contended, but what the declaration in the present case is in that respect exceptionable; but, for a variance of that sort, the objection goes in abatement to the declaration and counts thereof, and not in bar of the action; and of course, in deciding upon a demurrer, such as was put in by the defendant in this case in bar of the action, the objection can not be sustained. The cause must, then, as we have already remarked, turn upon the sufficiency of the facts alleged in the declaration to authorize the plaintiff to maintain an action of debt; and in response to that question, it is sufficient to remark, that we are incapable of perceiving any solid objection against sustaining the action. By an unnecessary and useless multiplication of counts, the parties may have become subject to costs that ought never to have accrued; but in those counts there is evidently sufficient matter alleged, if true, to sustain the plaintiff's action. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause, remanded to the court below, and the demurrer of the defendant overruled, and such further proceedings there had, as may not be inconsistent with this opinion. Monroe, for plaintiff; Swigert, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. White v. Walker 1 T.B.Mon. 34, 17 Ky. 34, 1824 WL 1473 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
