(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 241,  17 Ky. 241 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1545 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Barrett, &c. v. Lightfoot. Dec. 18, 1824. *1 Trespass, Estrays, Pleading by Defendant, Error. ERROR TO THE OHIO CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Action 13 k 30 13 Action 13II Nature and Form 13k29 Forms of Action at Common Law 13k30 k. Distinctions as to Form. Most Cited  Cases Trespass is the proper action against the taker up of an estray for using it before it is posted. Animals 28 k 61 28 Animals 28k58 Estrays 28k61 k. Impounding or Taking Up. Most Cited Cases One taking up an estray has no right to use it, unless such use is necessary for its preservation. Appeal and Error 30 k 690(4) 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(M) Questions Presented for Review 30k689 Admissibility of Evidence 30k690 In  General 30k690(4) k. Necessity of Setting Forth Evidence  in General. Most Cited Cases Alleged error in the admission of evidence will not be considered unless the evidence admitted appears. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This writ of error with supersedeas is prosecuted by Barrett and Gentry, to reverse a judgment recovered against them in an action of trespass, which was brought in the court below by Lightfoot, for the taking, and, by immoderate and illegal riding, killing a horse. Two pleas were pleaded in that court.--1st, Barrett and Gentry pleaded jointly the general issue; 2d, Barrett pleaded, that the plaintiff his action ought not to have and maintain, because he says that previous to the supposed trespass in the declaration mentioned, the said horse was estrayed from the home and possession of the said Lightfoot, and had come lost and estrayed to the plantation and place of residence of the said Barrett, and broke into his farm, to-wit, at the circuit aforesaid, and the said Barrett had taken up the said horse as an estray, as by the law of the land he well might; and previous to the ten days allowed by law to post said horse as an estray, his wife was taken very ill and in danger of death, and the said Barrett, not having any other means by which he could send for a physician to attend his said wife, did then and there, as he well might, and out of necessity, request the said Gentry to ride the said horse moderately to the town of Hartford, at the circuit aforesaid, for a physician; and the said Barrett avers, that the physician to whom he requested the said Gentry to go, was the nearest physician to the residence of the said Barrett, and that the request so made to the said Gentry, was of necessity, and out of humanity and duty to his wife; and this is the same trespass in the declaration supposed, without this, that he is guilty, & c., &c. Special plea, by one defendant, held insufficient. To this plea Lightfoot demurred, and the demurrer was sustained by the court *2 Whether or not, in sustaining the demurrer, the court decided correctly, is the first question made by the assignment of errors. In argument, the correctness of the decision was combatted upon two grounds: 1st. It was contended, that assuming the allegations of the plea to be true, there was nothing illegal in Barrett's treatment of the horse, and that no action can be sustained against him by Lightfoot, for the loss of the horse. (1.) But if any action can be sustained, it was, 2ndly, contended, that Lightfoot misconceived his remedy, by bringing an action of trespass. (1) Trespass is the proper action against the taker up of an estray, for using it before it is posted; for his possession is by authority of law, and the abuse of such authority makes the party a trespasser ab initio. If, however, the use which Barrett is alleged by the plea to have made of the horse, be admitted to be illegal, it is perfectly clear, that in bringing trespass, Lightfoot adopted the legitimate and appropriate action; for, in taking up the horse, which the plea alleges to have estrayed, Barrett must be understood to have acted under the authority of law; and if so, the doctrine is well settled, that any subsequent abuse of that authority makes him a trespasser ab initio, and as such liable to be sued for the injury produced by the abuse, in an action of trespass. Cr. Ja. 148. (2.) Was it, then, illegal, under the circumstances alleged in the plea, for Barrett, whilst he held the horse as an estray, and before the horse was posted, to employ him in sending for a physician? (2) The taker up of an estray can not use it before it is posted, except where necessary for its preservation; no necessity of his own, as to send for a physician, will justify it. This question must, we apprehend, be answered in the affirmative. It was not, indeed, controverted in argument, but what the taker up of a stray is not, in the general, at liberty, before the stray is posted, to use it; but it was contended that there are exceptions to this general rule, and we were referred to Buller's Nisi Prius, as an authority to prove that where there exists a necessity to do so, a stray may be used. The authority in Buller is taken from an adjudged case reported in Croke James, and will probably be better understood by adverting to the language which the court are reported to have employed in that case. In that case, when remarking upon the subject of using an estray, the court observed, "it is not lawful for any to use it in any manner, unless in case of necessity, and for the benefit of the owner, as to milk milch kine; because, otherwise, they would be spoiled; and so of the like. But, to use a stray horse by riding or drawing, is tortious, although it were alleged that the common course is to use stray horses with withes about their necks." Cro. Ja. 148. It will at once be admitted, that the case in Croke goes as well to establish the principle, that strays can not, in the general, be used, as that there may exist such a necessity for using them, as to form an exception to the general principle, and render the use lawful. But, to have that effect, the necessity must, we apprehend, be of a different sort to that which is alleged in the plea of Barrett. The illustration made by the court, in that case cited, shows the sense in which the expression, necessity, was intended by them, and proves conclusively, that strays can not be lawfully used by the taker up, unless to use them be necessary to preserve them from injury, and for the benefit of the rightful owner. *3 There being, therefore, no such necessity for using the horse by Barrett, alleged in his plea, the use was illegal, and an abuse of the authority of law, and as such, the demurrer to the plea was correctly sustained. (3.) In the progress of the trial in the court below, Barrett and Gentry objected to a question which was propounded to a witness by Lightfoot, and by the assignment of errors the decision of the court in overruling the objection is also controverted. (3) The improper overruling an objection to a question propounded to a witness on the trial, to which the record shows no answer was given, or if given, was excluded from the jury is no cause for reversing the judgment. It is, however, proper to remark, that from a bill of exceptions which purports to contain all the evidence introduced on the trial, it is apparent, that although the question was allowed to be put to the witness, either no answer was made, or if made, it was not allowed to go to the jury. Were the question, therefore, admitted to be of a character that ought not to have been propounded to the witness, the mere circumstance of the court having overruled the objections taken to it, furnishes no sufficient cause for reversing the judgment. The judgment must, consequently, be affirmed with costs and damages. Haggin, for plaintiffs; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Barrett v. Lightfoot 1 T.B.Mon. 241, 17 Ky. 241, 1824 WL 1545 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 110 END OF DOCUMENT
