(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 298,  10 Ky. 298 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1067 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thomas' Executrix v. Trustees of Harrodsburg. Apr. 11, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE MERCER CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 103(1) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185VIII Requisites and Sufficiency of Writing 185k103 Nature and Form of Memorandum in General 185k103(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where a sale of lands is made at auction by the trustees of a town, and no memorandum made of the sale, except an entry in the books of the trustees, the sale is not valid, within the statute of frauds. Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 115.1 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185VIII Requisites and Sufficiency of Writing 185k114 Signature of Memorandum 185k115.1 k. Necessity. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 185k115(1)) Where trustees of a town sell land at auction, a bond given for the price cannot be enforced, though a record of the sale is made in the books of the trustees, unless some memorandum signed by the trustee is made. Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 116(7) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185VIII Requisites and Sufficiency of Writing 185k114 Signature of Memorandum 185k116 By Agent 185k116(7) k. Memorandum by Auctioneer. Most Cited  Cases No memorandum of sale, made by an auctioneer, will authorize a recovery, unless signed by the purchaser or some one authorized to do it for him. Auctions and Auctioneers 47 k 8 47 Auctions and Auctioneers 47k8 k. Rights and Liabilities of Seller and Buyer. Most Cited Cases The auction sale itself being invalid, because not evidenced by writing, as required by the statute of frauds, the bond given by the purchaser is also invalid, and no action is maintainable thereon. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: To an action of debt, brought by the trustees, against the executrix, on a bond given by Phil Bush and the testator of the executrix, the executrix, in substance, pleaded, that the bond was given by Bush, together with the testator, his security, for the price of certain lots of ground in the town of Harrodsburg, purchased by Bush of the trustees, under a parol contract of sale; and, after alleging, that the contract of sale, or any memorandum thereof, was never reduced to writing and signed by the trustees or any person by them legally authorized, the plea avers, that the trustees have never conveyed the lots to Bush, &c. To this plea, the trustees replied, that the lots in the plea mentioned, were sold at public auction, and upon Bush becoming the purchaser, an entry and record of the sale of the lots were made in the books of the trustees, which being known to Bush, the bond upon which action is founded, was given to secure the payment of the purchase money, &c. *2 The executrix demurred to this replication, and the demurrer being overruled by the court, a writ of inquiry was awarded, and judgment rendered by the court for the debt and damages assessed by the jury. The only question for the decision of this court, involves an inquiry into the correctness of the decision of the circuit court, in overruling the demurrer to the trustees' replication. If the plea presents a valid bar to the action, it is obvious, that the replication affords no sufficient answer to the plea. The only matter of avoidance, alleged in the replication, is, that of the lots having been sold at public auction, and an entry and record thereof made in the books of the trustees; but that matter, certainly, does not take the sale out of the statute against frauds and perjuries. The statute contains no exception of sales at auction, and the entry in the books of the trustees, unless signed by the trustees, or some person authorized by them, is not a compliance with the requisitions of the statute; and the replication contains no averment, of the entry having been so signed. A bond given for the price of lots sold by the trustees of a town at auction (unless some memorandum in writing signed by the trustees or some person authorized by them) can not be coerced, though a record of the sale be made in the books of the trustees. From both replication and plea, therefore, the sale must be admitted to be within the statute, and as the bond is alleged to have been given for the price of the purchase made at that sale, the plea, under the statute authorizing the consideration of sealed writings to be gone into and impeached, contains a good and valid defense to the action of the trustees. No action at law, or bill in equity, can be maintained by either Bush, or the representatives of Thomas on the sale; and it is a settled rule of the common law that a promise on which no action can be sustained, forms no sufficient consideration for any other promise. Thus it is said, that mutual promises must be both binding, as well on the one side as the other; and must be both made at the same time, or else they will be both nuda pacta. Powel on Contracts, 360. To render a contract binding, both parties must be mutually liable. The judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Bridges for appellants, Daviess for appellees. Ky.App. 1821. Thomas' Ex'x v. Trustees of Harrodsburg 3 A.K.Marsh. 298, 10 Ky. 298, 1821 WL 1067 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 165 END OF DOCUMENT
