(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 113,  19 Ky. 113 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1208 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Stewart, &c. v. Durrett. Nov. 17, 1825. *1 Statute of Limitations. Pleading. Immaterial Issue. Instructions. Practice. Continuance. New Trial. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 115 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(H) Commencement of Proceeding;  Relation Back 241k115 k. Mode of Computation of Time Limited. Most Cited  Cases The time of the statute is computed from the accruing of the action to the commencement of the suit. Limitation of Actions 241 k 193 241 Limitation of Actions 241V Pleading, Evidence, Trial, and Review 241k193 k. Issues, Proof, and Variance. Most Cited Cases The statute of limitations must be pleaded specially;  it cannot be given in evidence under the general issue. New Trial 275 k 85 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(G) Surprise, Accident, Inadvertence, or Mistake 275k85 k. Absence or Disability of Party. Most Cited  Cases Illness of defendant, which prevented his procuring the attendance of material witnesses or his being present himself to move for a continuance, is ground for a new trial. Appeal and Error 30 k 882(6) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(C) Parties Entitled to Allege Error 30k881 Estoppel to Allege Error 30k882 Error Committed or Invited by Party  Complaining 30k882(6) k. Issues, Proof, and Variance. Most  Cited Cases If a party tenders an immaterial issue, having had the full benefit of it as a material one, he cannot afterwards object to the proceedings on account of his own irregularities, nor have his own appeal dismissed or the judgment reversed on account of defects in his own pleadings, after he has had an opportunity to try his case upon its merits, and could again have a hearing upon the appeal. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement. This writ of error is prosecuted to a judgment recovered by Durrett, in an action of assumpsit, for goods, wares, and merchandise, brought by him against Stewart and M'Murtry. Two pleas were filed by Stewart in the court below. 1st. The general issue. 2ndly. He pleaded, that the said goods, wares and merchandise, as stated in the declaration, were sold and delivered by Durrett as articles charged in a store account, and that he, the said Stewart, did not undertake and promise in manner and form as by Durrett in his declaration is alleged within twelve months next after the delivery of the goods, wares and merchandise, &c. General issue and special plea by Stewart. To the second plea, Durrett replied, that the said goods, wares and merchandise, were sold and delivered by him, to the defendants, in the course of the trade of merchandise between him and the defendants as merchants, and not otherwise, &c. *2 Replication to the special plea. The allegations of the replication were traversed by Stewart, and issue joined thereon. In the progress of the trial which was had upon both issues, and after the evidence was gone through, Stewart moved the court to instruct the jury: Instructions moved and overruled. "That if they believed from the evidence that there had been twelve months since the creation of the account or assumpsit to pay, the law was for the defendant;" but the motion was overruled by the court, and all the evidence made part of the record by bill of exceptions. It is perfectly clear that in overruling the motion for instructions, no error was committed by the court. It is presumed that the motion was predicated upon the idea that, under the state of pleadings, Stewart was at liberty to avail himself of that provision of the statute of limitations, which requires actions or suits founded upon an account for goods, wares and merchandise, sold and delivered, or for any article charged in any store account, to be commenced and sued within twelve months next after the cause of such action or suit. But by adverting to the instruction as asked, it will at the first glance be perceived, that under no state of legal pleadings ought the instructions to have been given. According to the plain import of the statute, the limitation of twelve months must have elapsed, before the commencement of the action or suit founded upon account for goods, &c., and by the motion of Stewart, the court was asked to instruct the jury, that the law was for him, if they should believe from the evidence, that twelve months had elapsed since the creation of the account or assumpsit, thereby including in the computation of time, all the time which had elapsed up to the trial of the cause. The time in the statute of limitations is computed from the accrual of the action to the commencement of suit, not from the contract or receipt of the consideration to the trial. Waiving however, all exceptions to the phraseology of the motion for instructions, still we have no hesitation in saying, that under the pleadings in the cause, Stewart has no cause to complain of the decision of the court overruling his motion. Under his plea of the general issue no question could regularly be made upon the lapse of time. The limitation prescribed in the statute must, according to well settled principles, be specially pleaded, and can not be employed in defence under the general issue. Statute of Limitations must be specially pleaded. And with respect to the second plea of Stewart, it is so radically defective, that the issue made up by the parties thereupon, must be considered totally immaterial and irrelevant to the merits of the contest. If the cause of action occurred within twelve months next before the commencement of the action, it is totally immaterial when the promise to pay for the goods was made by Stewart. Upon the receipt of the goods, Stewart became morally bound to pay, and that moral obligation forms in itself a sufficient consideration to uphold a subsequent promise to pay, although the promise may not have been in fact made within twelve months from the delivery of the goods. By denying that the promise alleged in the declaration was made within twelve months next after the delivery of the goods, the plea can not therefore be admitted sufficient to impeach the consideration of the promise; nor can the allegations of the plea, upon any principle of interpretation, be construed to bring the case within the operation of the statute of limitations. *3 Issue on a plea that "the goods were sold and delivered by plaintiff as articles charged in store account, and defendant did not promise to pay within twelve months next after their delivery," is wholly immaterial. In no point of view, therefore, can the plea be understood to contain any valid defence to the action, and of course the issue thereupon made up by the parties, must be deemed impertinent and immaterial. The party committing the first fault in making up an immaterial issue can complain of no error of the court in refusing to give instructions touching such issue. Thus understood, it can not be important whether or not in relation to that issue the decision of the court upon the motion of Stewart be correct. The first fault in pleading was committed by him, and according to repeated decisions, he has no right to complain of errors growing out of the trial of an immaterial issue produced by himself. After a verdict was found against Stewart, he moved the court for a new trial, but his motion was overruled, and it remains to decide, whether in refusing a new trial the court erred. We have no doubt the verdict of the jury is warranted by the evidence introduced on the trial. The evidence is of a character calculated to prove the cause of action set out in the declaration, and goes to fix upon Stewart, &c., a liability equal to the amount of damages assessed by the jury. But we are of opinion that a new trial ought to have been awarded upon the ground set out in the affidavit of Stewart. By that affidavit it appears, that Stewart not only has a good defence to make to the action, but moreover by a severe indisposition, he was prevented from either procuring the attendance of his witnesses to prove his defence, or to attend himself and obtain a continuance. Illness of defendant which prevented his procuring the attendance of material witnesses or his being present himself to move for a continuance, is a sufficient ground for a new trial. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and the verdict of the jury set aside, and a new trial awarded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiffs; Haggin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1825. Steward v. Durrett 3 T.B.Mon. 113, 19 Ky. 113, 1825 WL 1208 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
