(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 256,  8 Ky. 256 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1348 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Joseph Kessinger v. Richard J. Mumford. Jun. 15, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE HARDIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 332(3) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k332 Declaration, Complaint, or Petition in General 95k332(3) k. Fulfillment of Conditions Precedent. Most  Cited Cases In an action on a covenant, where some act on the part of the plaintiff is a condition precedent, he must aver the performance, or an excuse for the failure to perform. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The judgment of the court below sustaining the demurrer of Mumford to the declaration of Kessinger, is, we have no doubt, correct. Mumford having, as is charged in the declaration, covenanted to pay the obligee twenty-four dollars for every thirty days he should serve as a substitute for him under the command of Captain Rawlings, of the first regiment detached militia, under the command of Lieut. Col. Samuel Caldwell, it is clearly necessary in an action for the pay, that Kessinger should allege in his declaration, either a performance on his part, or an excuse for the failure to perform; and in alleging a performance, it no doubt should be done, either in the words of covenant, or in words coextensive with its legal import. The breach of a covenant must be assigned in the words of the covenant itself, or in words coextensive with the legal import thereof. In an action of covenant, where some act on the part of the plaintiff is a condition precedent to the duty of the defendant, the plaintiff must aver the performance, or an excuse for the failure to perform. But, as in the present case, Kessinger by barely alleging, that "the obligee performed a six months' tour of duty for Mumford," has neither charged a performance in the words of the covenant, nor used words calculated, by shewing the service to have been performed under the command of Capt. Rawlings, &c., a performance according to the effect of the covenant, he most clearly has altogether failed to shew any legitimate cause of action against Mumford. The judgment of the court below, therefore, in sustaining Mumford's demurrer, is correct, and must be affirmed with cost. B. Hardin, for appellant. Ky.App. 1818. Kessinger v. Mumford 1 A.K.Marsh. 256, 8 Ky. 256, 1818 WL 1348 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
