(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 285,  20 Ky. 285 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1419 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hawkins' Heirs v. Marshall &c. Apr. 5, 1827. *1 Entries. Big Bone Lick Creek. Head of a Creek. ERROR TO THE GENERAL COURT; ADAM BEATTY, THO. MONTGOMERY, AND JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGES. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A call for "the head of the main branch of the North Fork of Big Bone Lick creek" was held valid, as from the accuracy of the description contained in the entry, it could be found with ease and certainty. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. By the decree to which this writ of error is prosecuted, the heirs of Hawkins were directed to convey to Marshall, &c., who were complainants in the court below, their legal title to the land in contest, derived under a grant from the Commonwealth, of elder date than, and adverse to, that under which ??he complainants in that court claim. Case of a bill on the junior grant and elder entry. The principal question debated at the bar, and the ??nly one worthy serious consideration, involves an inquiry into the validity of the entry through which ??he complainants assert their equity, and which is ??s follows: "November 25th, 1783. Jacob Fishback and Charles Morgan, as ten??nts in common, enter forty thousand acres of land ??n a treasury warrant, No.??' &c.--beginning at the ??ead of the main branch of the north fork of the ??ig Bone Lick creek, and running north and south ??n equal distance; thence, from each end of said ??ine, west for quantity." Fishback and Morgan's entry of 40,000 acres. The entry was amended on the first of January, ??784, by adding, "to lie in a square." Entry amended. Upon reading this entry, with a view to ascertain ??ts beginning, the first object that naturally arrests ??he attention of the inquirer is, the Big bone lick ??reek. It is upon the head of the main branch of the north fork of that creek, the entry calls to begin; and to enable the inquirer to find the head, he must necessarily ascertain whether or not, at the date of the entry, there was such a creek as the Big bone lick creek. Big bone lick and creek. There is represented upon the connected plat a lick, which, from its being a place of great resort by wild beasts and game of various sorts, had, at an early period, attracted the attention of hunters and others, and from the peculiar and extraordinary size of bones found there, had obtained the name of Big bone lick; and before the date of the entry had become notoriously known by all those conversant in the vicinity by that name. There is also represented upon the plat, a stream or creek passing through this lick, southwardly, which after uniting in its course with several other streams, finally discharges itself in the Ohio, at the distance of about five miles, with its meanders, from the lick. The creek which is thus represented to pass through the lick, the complainants contend, is the Big bone lick creek; and on the part of the defendants in the court below, it is admitted, that at its entrance into the Ohio river, it was called the Big bone lick creek, but it is insisted by them, that in ascending the creek about a mile and a half, to the first stream coming into it on the south side, it lost the name of the Big bone lick creek, and that above that, it was known by the name of the north fork of the Big bone lick creek, until it again forked, and from thence, up the stream, passing the lick, was known by the name of the Big bone fork, or the north fork of the north fork of Big bone lick creek. *2 Evidence of the names of the different branches of the Big bone lick creek. Between the different names assigned to the stream passing the lick, there is considerable contrariety of opinion expressed by the witnesses, so much so, that were there no other circumstance calculated to shed light upon the subject, we should have great difficulty in coming to a satisfactory opinion. But when it is recollected, that for years bfore the entry was made, the lick had obtained the name, and was generally known by the Big bone lick, it is but natural to suppose, that the creek derived its name from the lick through which it passed, and was, at the date of the entry, known as high up as the lick, by the name of the Big bone lick creek. Having received its name from the lick, it is not extraordinary, that the creek should, afterwards, be known by the name of the big bone creek at its entrance into the Ohio. And in ascending or descending creek, it is highly probable, that in speaking with reference to its different branches, the branch uniting and coming into it nearest the Ohio, may, by some, have been called the south fork, whilst in contradistinction thereto, the principal creek may have been called the north fork, until, in ascending, it again forked into what is called, by some of the witnesses, the big bone fork, and the mud lick fork. But notwithstanding such may have been the names by which the creek and its branches may have been called by some, others again say, that the stream passing the lick was, from thence, to its entrance into the Ohio, known by the name of the Big bone lick creek; and from the notoriety of the lick from which the name was derived, together with the peculiar fitness of the name to that stream, we apprehend, that subsequent locators, by the exercise of ordinary diligence, would have had no difficulty in satisfying their minds, that the Big bone lick creek passed the lick. That stream is, in point of fact, a creek; it passes through the lick from which it obtained its name, and deserves emphatically the appellation of the Big bone lick creek. Understanding, therefore, the stream that passes the lick to be the Big bone lick creek, most of the objections taken in argument to the entry, must vanish. For if the creek at the lick be the Big bone lick creek, an inquirer for the head of the main branch of its north fork, would naturally search for a fork coming into it on the north, and could not have been misled by any of the forks or branches coming in on the southwardly side of the creek, as was contended in argument. Having his attention therefore, directed to a fork falling into the creek on the most northwardly side, the inquirer would have no difficulty in finding the north fork. He would discover a fork uniting with the creek on the north, immediately below the lick, and with a knowledge of the creek and its branches, could have no hesitation in pronouncing that fork, the north fork. And, after finding the fork, the inquirer, by following the stream, would, in a short time, with but little trouble, arrive with absolute certainty at its source, the place called for as the beginning of the entry. *3 Call for the head of the main branch of the north fork of Big bone lick creek, held valid. We know that entries calling for the head of water courses have been repeatedly adjudged invalid; and it would not be going too far to say, that in the general, from the uncertainty usually attending such a call, and the difficulty in ascertaining the true head of a creek, an entry depending upon a call for the head of a creek, should not be sustained. But there are cases in which entries, depending upon such a call, have been sustained, and from the accuracy of description contained in the entry now in question, and the facility and certainty with which the head of the main branch of the north fork of the big bone lick creek might be ascertained and known, we apprehend, the court below was correct in adjudging the entry a valid one, as was held by this court in the case of Buford against Marshall, spring term, 1807. In the general, a call for the head of the creek, is not sufficient-- --But where that head is easily found, it will do. The decree affirmed with cost. Wickliffe and Haggin, for plaintiffs; Crittenden, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Hawkin's Heirs v. Marshall 4 T.B.Mon. 285, 20 Ky. 285, 1827 WL 1419 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
