(Cite as: 2 Bibb 562,  5 Ky. 562 (Ky.),  1812 WL 621 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Barns v. Williams. Spring Term, 1812. *1 When a debtor in execution is in the custody of the jailor, the bond for keeping within the prison rules is properly taken payable to the jailor. If the debtor escapes, the jailor is bound to assign the bond to the creditor. In suit against the jailor for refusing to assign over the bond to the creditor, the declaration should charge an escape; "that the debtor did depart without the prison rules and bounds and go at large, contrary to the condition of the bond," is not sufficient allegation of an escape. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 448 161 Execution 161XV Execution Against the Person 161k448 k. Discharge on Prison Limits Bond. Most Cited Cases Under section 26 of the act concerning executions, 1 Litt.Laws. p. 547, providing that, if one charged in execution enter into bond conditioned that he will not go out of the prison rules or bounds, it shall be lawful for the sheriff or officer in whose custody the prisoner shall be to permit him to go out of prison and return at pleasure, the bond is properly taken payable to the jailer. Execution 161 k 448 161 Execution 161XV Execution Against the Person 161k448 k. Discharge on Prison Limits Bond. Most Cited Cases Where a debtor gives the jailer a bond for the prison limits, and escapes, it is the jailer's duty to assign the bond to the creditor. Prisons 310 k 251 310 Prisons 310II Prisoners and Inmates 310II(F) Duration of Confinement 310k250 Escape 310k251 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 310k16) In an action by the creditor of an imprisoned debtor, under bond to keep within the jail limits, against the jailer for refusal, on escape of the debtor, to assign the bond to him, an allegation that the debtor departed the prison limits "contrary to the condition of the bond" is insufficient as an allegation of the essential fact of an escape. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS action was commenced by Williams against Barns, in the Hopkins Circuit Court. Williams, in his declaration, after reciting a judgment recovered by him against John Hopkins, and Horatio D. G. Watkins in the Circuit Court for the United States, and a ca. sa. which issued thereon for $700 debt, and $91 82 cents costs; charges that the ca. sa. was put into the hands of John Madison, deputy marshal of the district of Kentucky, to execute; that said Madison, by virtue of said writ, in the county of Hopkins, did arrest said John Hopkins, and delivered him in the jail of said county of Hopkins, to Barns, the then jailor of said county; that said John Hopkins, being so charged in execution, entered into bond, with Samuel G. Hopkins his security, conditioned that said John Hopkins should not depart or go out of the rules or bounds of said prison, until discharged by due course of law; and that said John Hopkins did depart without the rules or bounds of said prison, and go at large in said county, contrary to the condition of said bond, whereby the condition of said bond was altogether broken, and the said John Hopkins, and Samuel G. Hopkins, his security, became liable to pay unto Williams his debt, damages and costs; and the said Barns, not ignorant of the premises, but intending to hinder said Williams from recovering his debt, etc., has hitherto refused to deliver up and assign the said bond unto said Williams, although so to do he was specially requested, whereby the said Williams is altogether hindered and prevented from recovering his debt, etc. Upon the petition of Williams by his agent, this cause was removed to the Muhlenburg Circuit Court, where judgment by default was had against Barns and his appearance bail, and upon the execution of a writ of inquiry, a verdict for $917 83s.i 9Id. was had against them; to reverse the judgment, Barns has prosecuted a writ of error with a supersedeas in this Court. *2 The first question which occurs as proper to be decided in this cause is, whether the bond conditioned to keep the prison rules is illegal and void, because of its having been taken to the jailor. By the 26th section of the act concerning executions,  1 Litt. 547, it is provided if any person or persons charged in execution, shall enter into bond with good and sufficient security, under a reasonable penalty, upon condition he or they shall not depart or go out of the rules or bounds of the prison to which he or they shall be committed, it shall be lawful for the sheriff or officer in whose custody such prisoner or prisoners shall be, to permit him or them to go out of the prison and return at pleasure. By the laws and constitution of this country, the office of jailor is made separate and independent of that of the sheriff; he is appointed by the County Court, and has to give bond and security for a faithful discharge of the duties of his office. He is alone responsible for his acts as jailor, and whenever he has the custody of a prisoner, we think he should take the bond for keeping the prison rules: the bond being an indemnity to the officer taking it alone. The next question for decision is, whether the jailor is bound by law to assign to the creditor such bonds. The solution of this question depends on the construction of an act declaring the law concerning the escape of debtors and other prisoners. By the 2d section of this act  (2 Litt. 33) it is provided when any person in execution, who shall have obtained the liberty of the prison rules by giving bond and security for the same, shall hereafter escape and go out of the same, the sheriff of the county where such person was in custody, shall, and is hereby required immediately to apply to a justice of the peace for an escape warrant, to retake such prisoner according to the directions of this act; and such sheriff shall, and he is hereby required immediately to give notice thereof to the creditor at whose suit he was in custody, or to his attorney or agent, and shall assign over and deliver to such creditor or his attorney, the bond by him taken for the liberty of the prison rules, who shall be obliged to receive the same, etc. Such construction should be put upon this section, as will best answer the intention of the makers, even should such construction not be within the letter; that intention will be the better collected from the cause or necessity of making the law. Before the passage of this section, bonds for keeping the prison rules were not assignable; the creditor had recourse only to the officer from whose custody the prisoner escaped; and the officer, his recourse on the bond which he had taken for his indemnity. It seems evident that it was the intent of the law makers by enacting this section, to prevent this circuity of action, and to do away the liability of the officer, in case of escapes when he should have done his duty in taking sufficient security for keeping the rules or bounds. That intention can alone be answered by extending the provisions of the section to jailors as well as sheriffs. We think therefore that, from an equitable construction, jailors are bound to assign bonds by them taken to keep the rules under the provisions contained in the statute. *3 But it remains to be decided whether the declaration in this case contains such averments, from which it appears Barns is bound by law to assign and deliver the bond by him taken for the prison rules? Everything of the essence of the action should be set forth in the declaration; whenever a prisoner shall escape and go out of the prison rules, it becomes the duty of the officer from whose custody the escape was made to assign the bond to the creditor; that the prisoner should have escaped, is of the essence of the right of the creditor to an assignment of the bond; and in actions against the officer for a failure to assign the bond, it is the gist of the action. It is not every departure or going out of the prison rules that makes an escape; on a failure by the creditor to pay the prison fees, or give bond and security for such payment, or upon the prisoner's taking the oath prescribed for insolvent debtors, he may depart and go without the prison rules, and yet not have escaped; in such cases, the officer taking the bond is not bound to assign it to the creditor. The declaration should charge as a substantive allegation that the prisoner escaped; the allegation that he departed and went without the prison rules is not sufficient. This defect we consider not helped by the statement, "contrary to the condition of said bond, whereby the condition of said bond was altogether broken," etc., that being only a legal conclusion, and not a substantive allegation of a material fact. The fact should be so alleged, that the Court could decide with certainty whether the jailor is bound to assign the bond. We think therefore the declaration defective, and that the judgment of the Muhlenburg Circuit Court is erroneous, and must be reversed, with costs, etc.; the cause to be remanded, and the plaintiff to have leave to amend his declaration, etc. Ky.App. 1812. Barns v. Williams 2 Bibb 562, 5 Ky. 562, 1812 WL 621 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
