(Cite as: 4 Bibb 484,  7 Ky. 484 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1059 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Carmichal v. Elmendorf, etc. Apr. 10, 1817. *1 The copy of a will proved and admitted to record in another State, without being proved and recorded in a County Court in this State, is inadmissible evidance to show the derivation of title. A testator authorizes his executors, or a majority of them, to sell and convey land--a deed made by less than a majority does not pass the title at common law. By our statute the sale and conveyance of land devised to be sold by executors may be made by such of them as undertake the execution of the will. West Headnotes Powers 307 k 30 307 Powers 307II Construction and Execution 307k30 k. Persons Authorized to Execute. Most Cited Cases Where a testator authorized his executors, or a majority of them, to sell and convey the land, a deed made by less than a majority does not pass the title at law. Powers 307 k 36(1) 307 Powers 307II Construction and Execution 307k36 Validity and Sufficiency of Execution 307k36(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where a will, proved and admitted to record in another state, but not proved or recorded in Kentucky, authorized the executors, or a majority of them, to sell and convey land, it was held that a deed made by less than a majority would not pass the title, although by Kentucky statute the sale or conveyance of land, devised to be sold by executors, might be made by such of them as should undertake the execution of the will. Evidence 157 k 347 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k346 Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of Other  States 157k347 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Wills 409 k 433 409 Wills 409V Probate or Contest of Will 409V(R) Operation and Effect 409k433 k. Admissibility, as Evidence, of Will or Proofs, or  of Record or Exemplified Copy Thereof. Most Cited Cases A copy of a will, shown by an exemplification of the court's record of another state to have been proven and admitted to record in such other state, is inadmissible to show derivation of title, without being first proven and recorded in a county court in this state. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. FOR the purpose of recovering the possession of a tract of land held by the appellant, this ejectment was brought by the appellees in the Court below; and on the trial of the general issue, they obtained a judgment for one equal moiety of the land. *2 The plaintiff in that Court claiming land through the will of Nicholas Governeur, to show his right, produced in evidence from the ercords of a Court of New York (where Governeur died) a copy of his will, together with an exemplification of the proceedings of that Court in relation to the will, but without any evidence of its having been proven and recorded in a County Court of this country. Whether, therefore, the copy thus exemplified was competent evidence, is the first question for consideration. The probate of a will as it was granted by a Court whose jurisdiction related exclusively to personal matters, although conclusive as to personal rights, was not, according to the doctrine of the common law, admissible to prove anything concerning freehold land. But in this country, as the County Courts possess jurisdiction in all testamentary matters, whether of a landed or chattel interest, the probate should not only be evidence of personal rights, but also admissible in all contests where the execution of the will is necessary to be proven. The probate, to be admissible, must, however, appear to be taken by a Court having cognizance of the matter; and as that can only be by some County Court of this country, no exemplification of a record from another State will answer the purpose. A copy exemplified as the one in question, would, it is true, authorize the County Court where the land lies, upon due proof, to admit it to record; and when recorded, a copy from the records, with a certificate of probate, would be evidence of as high dignity as the original; but until recorded in the Court of this country there is no decision upon the will by a Court of competent jurisdiction; and until then the exemplification from the foreign record constitutes no evidence of the due execution of the will. The exemplification from the record of the Court of New York was, therefore, inadmissible, and ought not to have been used as evidence in the Court below. But if it had been properly used, still we should be of opinion that the deed under which Elmendorf claims the land did not invest him with the legal title. The will of Governeur authorizes his executors, or a majority of them, to sell and convey the land in contest; but as the authority is unconnected with an interest, and the deed to Elmendorf was executed by less than a majority of the executors, according to the settled rules of the common law the title cannot have thereby passed. The doctrine of the common law, it is true, has in this respect been in some measure changed; but upon no fair construction of the statute do we suppose the deed can be made operative. By the statute the sale and conveyance of land devised to be sold, may be made by such of the executors as undertake the execution of the will; but as the will of Governeur has not been admitted to probate in this country, its execution, in the sense intended by the legislature, cannot be said to have been undertaken by any of his executors. *3 The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1817. Carmichal v. Elmendorf 4 Bibb 484, 7 Ky. 484, 1817 WL 1059 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
