(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 404,  19 Ky. 404 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1328 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cochran v. Tatum. Dec. 20, 1826. *1 Variance. Allegation and Proof. Conditions Precedent. Pleading. Indebtitalus Assumpsit. Special Counts. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Implied and Constructive Contracts 205H k 75 205H Implied and Constructive Contracts 205HII Actions 205HII(A) In General 205Hk75 k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 412k18  Work and Labor) Indebitatus assumpsit for work and labor will not lie where the plaintiff was to be paid in specific articles, and not in money. Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 5 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k3 Grounds 42k5 k. Common Counts. Most Cited Cases Where a special contract has been fully executed, and nothing remains to be done but pay money, recovery may be had on the common counts. Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 5 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k3 Grounds 42k5 k. Common Counts. Most Cited Cases Indebitatus assumpsit under the common counts cannot be maintained where defendant agreed to make payments in property other than money. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement. This writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment recovered by Tatum, in an action of assumpsit, prosecuted by him in the court below, against Cochran. The questions made by the assignment of errors, grow out of instructions which were given by the court to the jury, on the trial of the general issue. The declaration contains two counts, the first of which is a special one, and the other a general indebitatus count, for work and labor. Declaration. After the evidence was through, the counsel for Cochran moved the court to instruct the jury to find as in case of a non-suit, on the ground-- Motion for nonsuit. 1st. Of a variance between the evidence introduced upon the trial and the first count; and-- 2nd. On the ground that the evidence did not authorize a recovery upon the general count. The motion was overruled, and the jury instructed by the court, that Tatum was entitled to recover whatever the work and labor done by him was worth. Motion for nonsuit overruled. That there is such a variance between the evidence and the agreement contained in the first count of the declaration, as to preclude a recovery upon that count, is so obviously clear, that in combatting the motion for the instructions to the jury to find, as in case of a non-suit, it appears not to have been even contended by the counsel for Tatum, that the jury could find for him on the first count. The contract as proved, not only differs in some of its essential attributes from that alleged in the first count, but moreover, instead of proving a performance of those things, which are in their nature precedent conditions on the part of Tatum, and which are alleged in his first count to have been performed by him, the evidence shows that they have been performed in part only, and goes to establish other facts, which, though not alleged in the count, were relied upon as forming an excuse for the non performance. *2 Evidence proving an excuse for non performance of a condition precedent, will not maintain a count averring performance only. But conceding the evidence to be insufficient to authorize a recovery upon the special count, it was contended to be sufficient to warrant a finding by the jury upon the general count. We, however, think differently. The contract proved, is one by which work and labor was undertaken to be performed by Tatum, and we admit that if the remuneration which was to have been made by Cochran to him for his labor, was money, and the terms of the agreement had been performed by Tatum, however special the agreement, there would have been no necessity for him to declare specially, and although he should do so in one count, and on the trial prove the agreement to be different from that alleged, he would nevertheless be entitled to recover upon a general indebitatus count, for work and labor. If the remuneration to be made for labor is money, and the labor is performed, however special the agreement may be the demand may be covered on a general indebitatus count-- But in the remuneration which, according to the evidence in this case, Tatum was to receive for the labor which he undertook to perform, was part of the proceeds of the farm upon which the work was to be done, and not money, and in such a case, though the work and labor be actually performed, the law implies no promise to pay its value in money, and of course, there can be no recovery upon the general count. But if the agreement is to secure property, (as part of the produce of the farm,) the count must be special. It follows, therefore, that the court erred as well in overruling the motion to instruct the jury as in case of a non-suit, as in giving the instructions which it did to the jury. The judgment must, consequently, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Turner, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1826. Cochran v. Tatum 3 T.B.Mon. 404, 19 Ky. 404, 1826 WL 1328 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
