(Cite as: 2 Bibb 635,  5 Ky. 635 (Ky.),  1812 WL 655 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The administrators of James Brown, deceased, v. John Scott, jr. Fall Term, 1812. *1 That a complainant has a cross demand against defendant for work and labor, separate and unconnected with the cause of action on which judgment was obtained by the defendant, is no ground for injunction and relief in equity without particular equitable circumstances. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 439 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k439 k. Compelling Set-Off or Reduction of Damages. Most  Cited Cases A. prayed for relief against a judgment at law, alleging a cross demand.  Held that, his remedy being at law, and he having stated no equitable circumstances entitling him to relief, the bill should be dismissed. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE plaintiffs obtained judgments at law, in the Bullitt Circuit Court, against the defendant, upon two notes executed by the defendant to James Brown, dec'd, for five pounds ten shillings and ten pence half penny each. To obtain relief, the defendant exhibited his bill in chancery in the Bullitt Circuit Court, in which he charges that the deceased was indebted to him at the time of his decease eighteen pounds, for work and labor done and performed for said Brown. He obtained an injunction staying further proceedings on the judgments at law, and prayed that the injunction should be decreed perpetual. The plaintiffs by their answer denied that their decedent owed the defendant anything at the time of his decease, and relied upon the statute of limitations as barring the claim. On a final hearing, the Court decreed the judgment perpetual, etc., from which decree the plaintiffs have prosecuted this writ of error. The facts stated by the defendant in his bill as giving a right to go into equity, are exclusively the subjects of an action at law. He might have maintained an action for work and labor, in which action it would be the province of a jury to ascertain the facts and damages. The plaintiffs having a cross demand against him, in the right of James Brown, deceased cannot, unless under particular equitable circumstances, authorize a defendant to resort to a Court of Equity for relief in a case otherwise alone cognizable in a Court of Law. No circumstances are alleged by the defendant which make it necessary in this case for equity to interpose. It is a case where a Court of Equity is asked for relief, on account of a separate and distinct demand, unconnected in any way to the demand on which judgment at law was obtained. We think, therefore, equity should not have interposed and given relief. But had the defendant's case been cognizable in a Court of Equity, he has not supported it by proof. He has not proven that the demands which he sets up against Brown were contracted within five years previous to the commencement of this suit; nor has he proven a promise to pay the same by Brown within that period. His accounts, therefore, are barred by the statute of limitations. *2 The decree of the Circuit Court therefore is erroneous and must be reversed with costs; the cause remanded to that Court, and a decree to be there entered dismissing the bill of the defendant with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1812. Brown's Adm'rs v. Scott 2 Bibb 635, 5 Ky. 635, 1812 WL 655 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
