(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 219,  17 Ky. 219 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1538 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hunt and Saunders v. M'Connell. Dec. 14, 1824. *1 Statutes, Endorsement, Mortgages, Costs, Frauds, Incumbrances, Rescission of Contracts. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Mortgages 266 k 208 266 Mortgages 266IV Rights and Liabilities of Parties 266k208 k. Personal Liability of Mortgagor for Indebtedness Secured. Most Cited Cases An estate mortgaged to secure the payment of a debt is bound for the costs of an action brought for the recovery of the debt. Mortgages 266 k 415(1) 266 Mortgages 266X Foreclosure by Action 266X(B) Right to Foreclose and Defenses 266k415 Defenses 266k415(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases It is no ground for refusing a decree for a foreclosure of a mortgage, given to secure the vendor, that the vendor neglected, at the sale, to disclose an incumbrance on the land, where there was no fraud on his part, and the vendee has received no injury from it, and it is released by the incumbrancer before the hearing. Mortgages 266 k 488 266 Mortgages 266X Foreclosure by Action 266X(K) Judgment or Decree 266k485 Scope and Extent of Relief 266k488 k. Sale of Property. Most Cited  Cases Where the joint owners of land mortgage it to secure the debt of one only, so much of the interest of both as is necessary to pay the debt may be decreed to be sold. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. Francis M'Connell sold and conveyed forty-three acres and ninety-eight poles of land, in the vicinity of Lexington, to Hunt and Saunders, and received from them their several promissory notes, payable at different periods for the price. To secure the payment of these notes, Hunt and Saunders on the 18th of May, 1814, executed a deed of mortgage to M'Connell for the tract of land which had been sold and conveyed to them by M'Connell. One of the notes which was executed by Saunders only, amounting to $905 57, was made payable in May, 1817, and the same not being paid on that day, suit was thereon afterwards commenced by M'Connell, and judgment at law recovered against Saunders for the amount of the note, with interest and costs. M'Connell afterwards exhibited his bill in equity against Hunt and Saunders, for the purpose of foreclosing their equity of redemption in the mortgaged land, and to subject the land to sale in satisfaction of the judgment which he had recovered at law, upon the note against Saunders. The bill. The bill was answered by Hunt, in which he charges that he has lately discovered, that at the time he and Saunders purchased the land of M'Connell, it was incumbered by a mortgage which had been previously executed by M'Connell and the other children of Francis M'Connell, deceased, to the children of Henry Marshall, deceased, for the purpose of indemnifying the heirs of Marshall against loss, in case a tract of five hundred acres of land, which had been sold by the ancestor of the M'Connells, to the said Henry Marshall, deceased, should be lost by an adverse interfering claim; that the five hundred acre tract which had been so sold, was in fact lost by a paramount claim; and that the heirs of Marshall had commenced and were prosecuting a suit in equity, for the purpose of foreclosing the equity of redemption held by the M'Connells in the mortgaged land, and to subject the same to sale for the purpose of indemnifying the heirs of Marshall against the lost land. In his answer, Hunt also states, that when the purchase was made from M'Connell by him and Saunders, they were ignorant of the existence of the mortgage to the heirs of Marshall, and charges M'Connell with fraudulently concealing the incumbrance from them. He moreover alleges, that the land has greatly depreciated in value since the purchase from M'Connell, and charges that owing to the incumbrance, he has been unable to dispose of the land at a saving price, &c. He makes his answer a cross-bill, and prays a cancelment of the contract with M'Connell, &c. *2 Hunt's answer and cross bill. The cross-bill was answered by M'Connell. He admits the existence of the mortgage to the heirs of Marshall, acknowledges that he made no disclosure of the mortgage at the time of making the sale to Hunt and Saunders; but denies that he was actuated by any fraudulent design in not doing so. He states that the existence of the mortgage did not occur to him, whilst contracting with Hunt and Saunders, and if it had, he should not have deemed it important to name it, as he supposed Hunt and Saunders knew of its existence, and as he was at all times able and willing to remove the incumbrance. He denies that the incumbrance has, at any time affected the price of the land, or been the means of preventing Hunt and Saunders from selling it; and finally he alleges that the heirs of Marshall have voluntarily released the land purchased by Hunt and Saunders, from the incumbrance, &c. M'Connell's answer. The court below pronounced a decree foreclosing Hunt and Saunders' equity of redemption, and ordering so much of the land as might be necessary to satisfy the judgment at law and costs, to be sold at a credit of two years, unless M'Connell should endorse that he would receive in satisfaction of his demand, notes of the Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or notes of the Bank of Kentucky, and in case he should so endorse, the sale to be made at a credit of three months. Decree of the circuit court. To reverse that decree, Hunt and Saunders have prosecuted this writ of error. (1.) The first error assigned, questions the propriety of the decree in allowing M'Connell an election, at a subsequent period, to endorse whether he would accept bank notes in satisfaction of his demand. (1) It is not necessary for the complainant to elect at the time of the decree directing the sale of mortgaged estate whether he will receive bank notes or not; it may be afterwards done. Therefore, a decree that if he endorse that he will receive bank notes, the sale shall be made at three months, otherwise at two years' credit, can not be complained of by the defendant. In that respect, however, no error is perceived, of which Hunt and Saunders have any cause to complain. The act of assembly by which the court appears to have been governed in giving the election to M'Connell, does not imperatively require the election to be made at the time of pronouncing the decree, and no reason is perceived for so construing the act, as not to allow the election to be exercised after the decree is ren dered. If the election be made before the property is sold. Hunt and Saunders will have derived the benefit of the act, and, of course, when that is the case, they can have no cause to complain. (2.) The next question that claims attention involves, the propriety of subjecting the land to the satisfaction of the costs of the suit at law. (2) Estate mortgaged to secure the payment of a debt, is bound for the costs of an action at law, afterwards brought for the debt; for it is the principal and they its incidents. *3 The mortgage does not, in terms, stipulate for the payment of costs, but creates a lien on the land for the payment of the debt, and as the costs have accrued in consequence of the failure to pay the debt, it must be considered as an incident thereto, attaching itself to the debt, and in equity, drawing with it the same lien that was created by the debt. It was therefore correct, to subject the land to the satisfaction of the costs, in conjunction with the debt. (3.) But it is contended, that no relief ought to have been decreed, either as the principal debt or costs. It is said that in failing to disclose the incumbrance upon the land at the time of the sale to Hunt and Saunders, M'Connell was guilty of a fraudulent suppression of the truth, and it is insisted that in a court of equity, he should not be relieved. (3) The omission of the alienor to disclose at the sale an incumbrance on the land, where he is not actuated by any fraudulent intention, and the purchaser receives no injury from it, and it is released by the incumbrancer before the hearing, is no ground for either a rescission of the contract or refusing a decree foreclosing a mortgage, executed to secure the purchase money. It should, however be remarked, that, although in point of fact, M'Connell failed to make known the incumbrance to Hunt and Saunders, it is not probabl?? that in omitting to do so, he was actuated by any fraudulent design. From the facts displayed in the record, it is quite evident that the incumbrance was never considered by M'Connell prior to his sale to Hunt and Saunders as forming any serious impediment to his title, or of a character which could not, at any time, be removed without inconvenience to himself. It is not, therefore, presumable, that in failing to disclose an incumbrance of that sort, M'Connell was actuated by an intention to deceive or injure Hunt and Saunders. If, however the incumbrance had proved to be injurious to Hunt and Saunders, though M'Connell may not have been actuated by any improper motive in failing to disclose it, their case would assume a much more imposing aspect; but there is nothing in the present case calculated to show, that in consequence of the incumbrance, any injury has been sustained by Hunt and Saunders. They appear not only to have enjoyed the unmolested possession of the land, ever since they made the purchase; but it is proved in the cause, that the heirs of Marshall, to whom the mortgage was executed by the M'Connells, before the final decree in the court below, voluntarily released the incumbrance upon the land which M'Connell sold to Hunt and Saunders. It is true, the land is proved to have depreciated greatly in value, since it was sold by M'Connell; but that depreciation appears to have happened before Hunt was apprized (as he alleges) of the existence of the incumbrance, so that from his own statements, it is impossible, that the existence of the incumbrance can have prevented his selling the land to others, before the price of land had depreciated. *4 Under circumstances like these, we cannot, therefore,?? admit that the aid of the court should be afforded to cancel the contract, or that it should be withheld from M'Connell, in his application to subject the land to the satisfaction of the sale money. (4.) But if any decree favorable to M'Connell is made it is contended that the interest in the land gained by Saunders under the purchase, should be first applied in satisfaction of the judgment recovered upon the note executed by him only, and that it was incorrect to decree the joint interst of both Hunt and Saunders, to be sold for that purpose. (4) Where the joint owners of land mortgage it for the debt of one of them, so much of the interest of both (not that of the debtor only) as may be necessary to pay the debt, may be decreed to be sold. It should, however, be recollected, that the record not only fails to show any separate interest in Saunders to the land, but the mortgage purports to be the joint act of Hunt and Saunders, creating a security upon the entire tract, for the notes executed by each. In decreeing so much of the interest of both Hunt and Saunders to be sold, as might be necessary to pay the debt, therefore, the court acted in perfect conformity to the contract of the parties, and in strict accordance with the rules of equity. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Haggin, for plaintiff; Hawes, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Hunt v. McConnell 1 T.B.Mon. 219, 17 Ky. 219, 1824 WL 1538 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
