(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 421,  19 Ky. 421 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1332 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Harper and James v. Baker. Dec. 21, 1826. *1 Pleading. Instructions. Trespass. Principal and Accessary. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Replevin 335 k 10 335 Replevin 335I Right of Action and Defenses 335k10 k. Possession of Defendant. Most Cited Cases A person receiving property, knowing it to have been obtained by a trespass, is not liable to an action of replevin. Replevin 335 k 69(1) 335 Replevin 335VII Pleading 335k69 Issues, Proof, and Variance 335k69(1) k. Scope of Issues. Most Cited  Cases Plea of the general issue in replevin admits property in the plaintiff, and puts in issue only the caption, and the defendant cannot show property out of the plaintiff under it. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement. This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a judgment recovered by Baker, in an action of replevin, brought by him in the court below, against Harper and James. The trial was had on the general issue and in its progress, several questions were made to the court and decided, to which, exceptions were taken by the counsel of James and Harper. Trial on the general issue. The correctness of the decision upon each question, is controverted by the assignment of errors. With respect to the first question made by the defendants in the court below, it is proper to premise, that it involved a point totally irrelevant and impertinent to the issue made up by the parties, and which the jury were sworn to try. Evidence was introduced for the purpose of disproving Baker's right of property in the horse, for taking of which the action was brought, and the object of the defendants in the first question made, was to obtain such an instruction from the court, as would enable them to succeed before the jury, on the ground of a lack of right of property in Baker. Whether, therefore, the law be or be not as was contended for by the counsel of Harper and James, it is perfectly clear, that the court can not have erred in refusing to give the instruction; for the doctrine is well settled, that by pleading the general issue in replevin, the defendant admits the right of property to be in the plaintiff, and that no evidence is admissible to disprove it, (Esp. N. P. 2 part Am. E. 227. Bull N. P. 54,) and of course the court can not be bound to give any instruction to the jury, for the purpose of influencing the jury against the right of the plaintiff to the property, as admitted by the defendant's plea. Where the general issue only is pleaded in replevin, the right of property in the plaintiff is admitted, and the court can give no instructions to the jury against the plaintiff's right so admitted. But in deciding upon the first question made by Harper and James, the court did not barely refuse to instruct the jury, as asked for by them, but moreover, went on to instruct the jury differently, and the instructions as given are complained of by the assignment of errors. Though different from the instructions as asked for by Harper and James, the instructions which the court gave relate to the right of property, and go to express the opinion of the court, as to the right upon a hypothecated state of facts, which the evidence conduced to prove. But whether or not, upon the facts supposed, the law was correctly expounded by the court, can not be material in the present case, and need not be considered by us. It was undoubtedly wrong for the court to permit the parties, by travelling out of the issue, to draw from it an opinion hypothecated upon facts totally irrelevant to the point in contest, and for doing so, were there no other error in the record, it would be worthy of consideration, whether the judgment ought not to be reversed. But as there is another point upon which the judgment must be reversed, and as upon another trial of the issue it will be perceived, that no question as to the right of property in Baker will be involved, we shall not stop to enquire whether or not, in point of law, the court were correct upon the facts supposed in its instructions to the jury. *2 Query--Whether for the error of the circuit court, in giving instructions on a question not before the jury, the judgment ought to be reversed under the circumstances here. The point upon which we are of opinion the judgment must be reversed, grows out of the following state of case. It was proved that the horse, without the participation or concurrence of James, and in his absence, was taken from the possession of Baker by Harper, but that at the commencement of the action, the horse was in the possession of both James and Harper. The court was asked to instruct the jury, that as there was no evidence against James, they must find for him; but the instruction as asked for, was refused, and the jury instructed that, if they should find that Harper got the horse without Baker's consent, and that James was apprised of the manner Harper got the horse when he obtained the possession, as it did not appear how he got the possession, James was a trespasser by relation, and in that event they must find against him. Statement of the evidence. In this instruction, the court has carried the doctrine of trespasser by relation farther than we have any recollection of having hitherto seen it carried by any adjudged case or commentator upon law, and farther than we suppose, upon legal principles, it ought to have been carried. We admit, that by agreeing to a trespass committed by another to his use, a person may, though he were absent when the trespass was committed, become principal, and that in an action against him for the trespass, it would be competent for the court, by hypothecating its opinion upon such a state of facts, to instruct the jury to find for the plaintiff. One by agreeing to a trespass committed by another to his use, may become a principal.-- But-- But such we do not understand to be the import of the instructions under consideration. By the instructions which were given, we understand the court, in substance, to have decided that, though James may have been absent when the trespass was committed by Harper, and though it was not committed for his use, yet, if he afterwards, with a knowledge of the trespass, received the possession of the horse which Harper had taken in the perpetration of the trespass, that James was a trespasser by relation, and liable to the action as such. A person receiving the possession of property, knowing it to have been obtained by a trespass, does not thereby become a trespasser, and subject to the action of replevin. It is true, the court seems to have placed some stress upon the circumstance, that it did not appear in evidence how James became possessed of the horse. But if from that circumstance the court inferred the fact that the trespass was committed for the use of James, and after drawing that inference, came to the conclusion it did upon the law, it evidently took upon itself the decision of a fact which according to well established principles, ought to have been decided, under all the circumstances, by the jury, and which it was incompetent for the court to decide. *3 That in such case, it does not appear how such defendant came to the possession, is a fact from which a jury may infer, but the court can not assume upon it, that the trespass was committed for his use. It results, therefore, that in its instructions to the jury the court erred, and that the judgment must, consequently, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Caperton and Breck for plaintiff; Turner for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Harper v. Baker 3 T.B.Mon. 421, 19 Ky. 421, 1826 WL 1332 (Ky.), 16 Am.Dec. 112 END OF DOCUMENT
