(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 142,  22 Ky. 142 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1652 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lyle v. Williamson. Oct. 30, 1827. *1 Equity Jurisdiction. Mistakes. ERROR TO THE SCOTT CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 435 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k431 Excuses for Failure to Interpose Defenses 228k435 k. Mistake, Surprise, or Accident. Most Cited  Cases Where a mistake was made, both as to the quantity of goods contained in certain packages and the number of packages receipted for and covenanted to be delivered, and judgment was recovered against the covenantor, who failed to defend, for the full amount, it was held that he might be relieved in equity. Reformation of Instruments 328 k 31 328 Reformation of Instruments 328II Proceedings and Relief 328k31 k. Jurisdiction and Venue. Most Cited Cases To correct and relieve against mistakes in writings is one of the principal grounds of equitable jurisdiction, and, though it might in some cases of mistake be competent for a court of law to afford redress, it is said to be the usual and safer course to apply to equity in the first instance. Equity 150 k 6 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(A) Nature, Grounds, Subjects, and Extent of Jurisdiction in General 150k5 Mistake 150k6 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Mistakes in writings are a principal ground of chancery jurisdiction;  and a court of equity is the proper tribunal to which to apply for relief against the effect of a writing by which a party, in consequence of an incorrect estimate of the weights and number of packages, receipted for and covenanted to deliver a greater quantity of merchandise than was in fact delivered to him. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. By a writing, dated the 24th of August, 1821, Williamson acknowledged that he had, on that day, received by Lyle forty kegs of powder, containing each twenty-five pounds, and two large boxes, one containing five hundred and forty-six dozen, and the other containing four hundred and forty-seven dozen spun cotton, all in good order, and covenanted to deliver the same in like good order to V. and I. King, at their store in Madison, Indiana. Receipt for goods, with a covenant to transport and deliver them. An action of covenant was brought by Lyle upon this writing, and Williamson having failed to make defence, nine-five dollars and forty-nine cents damages were assessed by the jury, on a writ of inquiry awarded for that purpose, and judgment was thereupon rendered by the court. Suit at law, and judgment on the covenant. To be relieved against that judgment, Williamson exhibited his bill in equity with injunction. The grounds for relief as alleged in the bill, and made out by the proof in the cause, are substantially these: That having under an agreement, such as that described in the writing, received most of the articles therein mentioned, and believing that the whole was received, Williamson executed the writing with the covenant therein contained; but that he has since discovered that, in point of fact, there were not more than thirty-nine kegs of powder received, by him, and that neither of the kegs actually received, contained more than between twenty and twenty-one pounds of powder; and that in drawing the writing, there was a mistake committed both as to the number of kegs, and the quantity of powder contained in each; that all the articles received by Williamson, were carried by him, and delivered to V. and I. King, according to his undertaking, and that the judgment at law was recovered for his failure to deliver the keg which was not received by him, and lack of the quantity in the kegs received, but which through the mistake, was incorrectly stated in the writing. *2 Bill for relief against the judgment, on the ground of mistake in the quantity of goods specified in the receipt. By all who may attend to the preceding facts, the injustice of the judgment which was recovered against Williamson, will be acknowledged, and none will doubt the propriety of sustaining his bill, and granting him the relief prayed, provided it can be done consistently with the rules by which courts of equity are governed. But in argument, we were told, that Williamson ought to have defended himself at law; and as he failed to do so, however unjust the judgment, he has no right to apply for relief in a court of equity. It is said, that if it be competent to prove the mistake by parol evidence in a court of equity, it was equally competent to do so in the action at law; and it was contended, that after the recovery at law, a court of equity is not at liberty to take up the matter and relieve Williamson against the effect of his own neglect, in not defending himself at law. It will not be contended by us, that in a matter exclusively cognizable at law, it would be within the power of a court of equity, after a decision at law, however unjust that decision might be, to take cognizance of the matter, and relieve against the judgment merely on account of the failure of the defendant to make his defence at law. But it is denied that the matter set up by Williamson in his bill, is of a character exclusively cognizable at law. We are not indeed prepared to say, that it was a legitimate subject of investigation in the action at law. We should have great difficulty in forming in our imagination, the sort of plea which would allow such a defence, and which might consistently with the strict rules of pleading, have been pleaded at law. In argument, it was said, that without plea, Willimson might have availed himself of the mistake, if available any where, in mitigation of damages. But even were it competent for him to have done so, it should be recollected, that though the damages might have been thereby reduced, it would not have been in the power of Williamson, without plea, to have escaped from the cost of the suit, which in point of moral justice, he ought no more be compelled to pay than the damages which were assessed against him. Were it, however, conceded that the matter was cognizable at law, it would not thence follow, that it is not also cognizable in equity; and if cognizable in both courts, the failure of Williamson to make defence at law, can not, according to repeated decisions, prevent him from being relieved in equity. To correct and relieve against mistakes in writings, is one of the principal grounds of equitable jurisdiction, and although it might, in some cases of mistake, be competent for a court of law, to afford redress, it is said to be the usual and safer course in such cases, to apply to a court of equity for relief, in the first instance. Starkie's Law of Evidence, 3 v. 1017. Mistake in writings is a principal ground of chancery jurisdiction; and a court of equity is the proper tribunal to apply to, for relief against the effect of a writing, by which a party--in consequence of an incorrect estimate of the weights and number of packages,--receipted for and covenanted to deliver, a greater quantity of merchandise than was, in fact, delivered to him. *3 The judgment which was rendered against Williamson, having therefore, been recovered for his failure to deliver articles which he never received, but which, through mistake, he, by his writing acknowledged that he had received, and covenanted to deliver, it was proper for him to apply to a court of equity for relief, and it was correct in the court to decree relief by perpetuating the injunction against the judgment. The decree is, therefore affirmed with costs. Dana, for plaintiff; Chinn, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Lyle v. Williamson 6 T.B.Mon. 142, 22 Ky. 142, 1827 WL 1652 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
