(Cite as: 4 Bibb 45,  7 Ky. 45 (Ky.),  1815 WL 651 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Dorsey v. Cock and Barbee. Apr. 25, 1815. *1 Where C had purchased the land of D conditionally that if D paid a certain sum within 12 months the land should revert, an offer before the day by D to pay and a declaration by C that he would not receive the money, excuses a formal tender, and C and his alienee having notice, shall hold the land subject to C's equity of redemption. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 291 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(G) Redemption 161k291 k. Right to Redeem in General. Most Cited  Cases A. purchased land belonging to B. and C. at a sheriff's sale, and gave a written agreement to B. and C. to relinquish to C. part of the land previously conveyed to C. by B. and to relinquish to B. the residue, on B.'s paying the purchase money within 12 months.  A. afterwards received the amount from C. and conveyed to him.  B. brought his bill to redeem and for relief. It appearing that B. had offered within the 12 months to pay A., that A. refused to receive payment, and that C. had notice of these proceedings, C. was decreed to reconvey to B. all that part which B. was entitled to by A.'s agreement, upon B's paying the amount of debt, interest, and costs of suit under which the land was sold. Tender 374 k 16(2) 374 Tender 374k16 Excuses for Failure to Make or Insufficiency 374k16(2) k. Refusal to Accept. Most Cited Cases Where a mining right is made by contract to depend on the payment of a sum of money within a particular time, a positive declaration of the payee, made within the time, that he will not receive it, will excuse the making of a formal tender. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE sheriff having taken, under a writ of fieri facias against the estate of Dorsey, a tract of land, a part of which had been previously conveyed to Barbee, by a deed from Dorsey, but which had not been admitted to record; and being about to expose the same to sale at twelve months credit, an agreement was made between Cock, Barbee and Dorsey, whereby Cock was to become the purchaser at the sale of the sheriff, and executed an instrument of writing binding himself to relinquish to Barbee that part of the tract which had been previously conveyed to him by Dorsey, and to relinquish to Dorsey the residue of the tract, upon Dorsey's paying the purchase money and releasing Cock from all costs at any time before Dorsey was bound to pay the sheriff; and upon the failure of Dorsey, if Barbee should comply he was to have the land. Cock accordingly purchased the land, and received from the sheriff a deed, gave his obligation for the price at twelve months credit. The money not having been paid by Dorsey within the time stipulated, Cock thereafter received the amount from Barbee, and executed a deed to him for the land. To be relieved against this deed and redeem the land, Dorsey exhibited his bill in equity, in which, after setting forth the agreement and sale by the sheriff, he charges that before the twelve months elapsed, he offered to pay Cock the money, but that Cock refused to receive it; and that Barbee, with notice of this circumstance, received from Cock a deed, and alleges a combination between Cock and Barbee to defraud him out of his land, etc. *2 The Court below, on a hearing of the cause, being of opinion Dorsey had not manifested his right to relief, dismissed his bill. From this decree Dorsey has appealed to this Court. Whether the agreement upon which Dorsey goes for relief, should be considered a mortgage or conditional sale, as under the circumstances attending this case the result would be the same, we have not thought it necessary or material to determine. If it be construed in the most favorable light for the appellees, and considered a conditional sale, Dorsey, by paying the money at any time within twelve months from the date, would in equity have been entitled to a reconveyance; or if the money was not paid within that time, owing to the refusal of Cock to receive it, as between him and Dorsey, and all those claiming under him with notice, the same consequence would follow. That Barbee obtained a conveyance from Cock with full knowledge of the occurrences which had previously transpired between Dorsey and Cock, in relation to the refusal of the latter to receive the money, we think from the evidence in this cause there can be no doubt. Unless Barbee had this knowledge, it is difficult to assign any satisfactory reason why he should have given a bond of indemnity to Cock upon receiving from him a title; besides, Barbee by taking from Cock an obligation for the land before the expiration of the time Dorsey was allowed to pay the money, seems to have evinced a design to preclude Dorsey from obtaining the land. Barbee then in the present contest cannot occupy more favorable ground than Cock, and the only material inquiry that occurs in the determination of this case is, whether Dorsey has been prevented from paying the money within the stipulated time, under such circumstances as in equity entitles him to relief. The evidence, it is true, does not prove a formal tender to Cock, by the actual production of the money, but it is apparent Dorsey had the money at command, and was prevented from paying it by the positive declarations of Cock that he would not receive it; and this we apprehend, for every equitable purpose, was all that should be required of Dorsey. The refusal it is true was made by Cock some two or three months before the expiration of the time Dorsey was allowed to pay the money; but as by the terms of the agreement, Dorsey had a right to pay at any time within the twelve months, the offer of Dorsey to pay, and the refusal of Cock to receive within that time, has the same operation and must be attended with the same consequences as if the tender had been made on the last day upon which payment could have been made according to the terms of the agreement. We are of opinion, therefore, that the decree of the Court below is erroneous, and must be reversed; the cause remanded to that Court, and a decree there entered against Barbee to reconvey to Dorsey by special warranty deed, all that part of the tract to which he was entitled under the agreement with Cock, upon Dorsey's paying the amount of the debt, interest and cost of the suit under which the land was sold. The appellant must recover his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Dorsey v. Cock 4 Bibb 45, 7 Ky. 45, 1815 WL 651 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
