(Cite as: 2 Bibb 607,  5 Ky. 607 (Ky.),  1812 WL 646 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Longes, etc. v. Kennedy. Fall Term, 1812. *1 The Court cannot take notice of a custom in the country to give one third of the land for locating--no such custom being alleged in the bill. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 21 157 Evidence 157I Judicial Notice 157k21 k. Customs and Usages. Most Cited Cases The court will not take notice judicially of a custom for a locator to take one-third of the land for his services, such custom not being alleged in the bill. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. Judge WALLACE absent. ON the 11th of April, 1780, Thomas Stephens, who has since deceased, held the possession of four treasury warrants, amounting in the whole to 1650 acres, two of which were in the name of said Thomas; a third, which was for the quantity of 650 acres, was in the name of George Stephens, a brother to the said Thomas; a fourth in the name of a certain Richard Longes, for 250 acres; at which time he made an agreement with Jas. Logan to locate said warrants, and accordingly delivered the warrants to him for that purpose; that the warrants have been located and carried into grant, in the names of the several persons respectively to whom the warrants issued; that said Logan transferred his interest in said contract, and delivered the warrants to Ezekiel Kennedy, who caused the same to be located and carried into grant, and for the purpose of obtaining a conveyance for the land located and patented in the name of Geo. Stephens, exhibited his bill in the general Court; in which he charges that Thomas Stephens was possessed of the warrants aforesaid, and made the contract with Logan to locate the same; that Logan was to have for his services and expenses in locating, etc., one third of the land: that Logan afterward transferred to him, the complainant, his interest in the contract, and delivered him the warrants to locate; that he accordingly fulfilled the contract on the part of Logan, and entered, surveyed, and obtained a patent for the 650 acres, in the name of George Stephens, on Rocky Run, in Mercer county. He also charges in his bill, that he is informed and believes that the warrants were purchased and paid for by said Thomas Stephens, and that George Stephens has since deceased, leaving Thomas Stephens his heir at law, against whom and others this suit was prosecuted. His bill prays for a conveyance for one third part of 650 acres surveyed and patented in Mercer county, on Rocky Run, in the name of George Stephens. The defendants being non-residents, an order of publication was had, the bill taken for confessed, and a decree pronounced according to the prayer of the bill; to which decree the defendants in that Court have prosecuted this writ of error. The bill having been taken as confessed, it becomes necessary to inquire whether, admitting the allegations of the bill to be true, the complainant in that Court has shown an equitable right to the one third part of the 650 acres of land surveyed and patented in the name of George Stephens. For the heir at law of George Stephens having the legal title to the land, cannot be divested thereof, unless the complainant shows himself equitable entitled. From the allegations in the bill, it seems the warrant under which the land in question was appropriated, belonged to George Stephens; and the complainant to show his right to the one third, charges in his bill, that "he is informed and believes it true, that Thomas Stephens, through whose contract with Logan he claims the land, purchased and paid for the same." This is the only allegation in the bill, which in the remotest degree shows any contract or sale of the warrant or land by George Stephens; and it is conceived this allegation, if true, will not warrant the decree in favor of the complainant. It only proves that the complainant was informed and believed Thomas Stephens, deceased, purchased and paid for the warrants. His being so informed vested no right, either legal or equitable; he may have been so informed, and yet no sale or purchase have been made. Such an allegation cannot form a sufficient ground for a Court of Equity to decree relief. To authorize a decree for the relief prayed, upon the bill being taken for confessed, the complainant should have alleged such a contract and purchase by Thomas Stephens of the warrants, as would vest in him an equity to the one third part thereof. But the custom of the country was relied on in argument, as giving a right to the relief prayed. To this need only be answered, that the complainant in his bill relies on a contract for the one third, and the bill contains no statement of the existence of any such custom, nor can we judicially say any such exists. *2 The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore erroneous, and must be reversed with costs; the cause remanded to that Court for new proceedings to be had, etc., not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1812. Longes v. Kennedy 2 Bibb 607, 5 Ky. 607, 1812 WL 646 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
