(Cite as: 2 Bibb 616,  5 Ky. 616 (Ky.),  1812 WL 650 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Smith, for the benefit of Norton v. Miller. Fall Term, 1812. *1 Of the legal effects and operation of a writing produced in evidence, the Court is to judge. If a party move the Court to instruct the jury hypothetically -- which instruction would be proper upon the facts supposed--yet if it appear from the evidence upon which the instruction was asked, that the hypothesis was not true in fact, and the evidence offered to maintain the hypothesis was not properly within the province of the jury to decide upon, the Court may properly refuse to give the instruction. A bill of sale affirming the thing sold to be sound, and containing an express warranty of title, does not amount to an express warranty of soundness. Where there is not an express warranty, but only an affirmation of soundness at the time of the sale, in an action for a false affirmation, the declaration should charge that the vendor knew of the unsoundness. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 279 343 Sales 343VI Warranties 343k276 Construction and Operation 343k279 k. Subject-Matter and Scope. Most Cited  Cases A bill of sale, affirming the property conveyed to be sound and expressly warranting the title, will not be considered as expressly warranting the soundness. Sales 343 k 434 343 Sales 343VIII Remedies of Buyer 343VIII(D) Actions and Counterclaims for Breach of Warranty 343k433 Pleading 343k434 k. Allegations of Breach as Cause of Action.  Most Cited Cases Where a bill of sale of a slave affirms that he is sound, and expressly warrants the title, an action for the false affirmation of soundness should charge that the vendor knew of the unsoundness. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an action on the case, brought in the Fayette Circuit Court, by the appellant against the appellee. The declaration charges that the appellee, for and in consideration of three hundred dollars, did bargain and sell to the appellant a certain negro boy named Abram, and did by his certain writing then and there given and subscribed by the appellee, acknowledge the receipt of said sum; and did further by said writing represent and undertake that said negro boy was then and there sound and healthy, and did warrant him against the claim of every person else whatever; and avers that the said boy was not, at the time of said sale and delivery, sound and healthy, but was then and there, and for a long time before had been afflicted with a certain disease called the dropsy, of which unsoundness he afterward died. The appellee pleaded non assumpsit, whereupon issue was joined. Upon the trial the appellant produced in evidence the following writing, signed by the appellee, viz: "Received of William Smith, of Lexington, three hundred dollars, for a negro boy named Abram, which negro is sound and healthy, and I warrant the title of said boy against the claim or claims of every person whatever; as witness my hand this 26th of March, 1810." After which he moved the Court to instruct the jury that if they were of opinion from the evidence that the defendant sold the negro in the declaration mentioned to the appellant, with a warranty of his soundness, and that the negro at the time of the sale and warranty was unsound, and of which unsoundness he afterward died, that the appellant had a right to recover such damages as they should think he was entitled to from the evidence. The Court overruled the motion, and refused to give the instructions to the jury. A verdict and judgment was obtained by the appellee, from which the appellant hath prosecuted this appeal. *2 The gist of this action is the warranty and the unsoundness of the negro at the time of the warranty. Proof of these facts would show a legal right in the appellant to recover; and if from the evidence the jury could legally have deduced the existence of those facts, or had the evidence been of that description the weight and effect of which could alone be determined by the jury, and which conduced in any degree to the establishment of those facts, there could be no doubt but that the Court erred in withholding the instructions asked. But the evidence offered by the appellant to prove the warranty, is in writing, the legal effect and operation of which it is competent for the Court to decide. If, therefore, the evidence does not prove a warranty of the soundness of the negro, on the part of the appellee, the Court did right in refusing to give the instructions to the jury. For if the legal effect of the evidence produced was proper for the Court to decide, and did not support the action on the part of the appellant, the Court cannot have erred in refusing to instruct the jury the appellant had a right to recover. It therefore becomes necessary to inquire whether the writing produced is an undertaking on the part of the appellee that the negro was sound and healthy. That the appellee did not intend warranting the negro sound, we think evident from the writing. It contains an acknowledgment of the receipt of the money for which the negro was sold, a representation that he was sound, and an express warranty of title. Had the appellee intended to warrant the negro sound, it is most reasonable to suppose the warranty would have been so worded as to embrace it. This not having been done, evinces clearly an intention to warrant the title only. The writing produced in evidence by the appellant, therefore does not prove a warranty that the negro was sound, and consequently evidences no responsibility on the appellee for an undertaking that he was sound. It is true that the declaration contains an averment that the appellee represented the negro to be sound, and that the writing proves such representation: but that averment, unconnected with any other, can produce no legal responsibility; it gives no cause of action. To make the appellee liable for a false affirmation or representation of soundness, the declaration should have charged as a substantive allegation that he knew the negro was unsound--Cro. Ja. 4, Esp. N. P. 629, 1 Com. Dig. 243, Fitz. N. B. 214, 2 N. Y. Term Rep. 48, Hard. Rep. 50. The declaration in this case containing no such averment, the appellant could alone recover upon the warranty: and having declared upon a warranty made in writing, which when produced proves no such an undertaking, we are of opinion that the Court decided correctly in refusing to give the instruction asked. The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be affirmed with costs, etc. Ky.App. 1812. Smith v. Miller 2 Bibb 616, 5 Ky. 616, 1812 WL 650 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
