(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 137,  9 Ky. 137 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1178 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Geo. W. Morton v. James Fletcher. Dec. 8, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Gaming and Lotteries 188 k 275(7) 188 Gaming and Lotteries 188II Rights and Remedies of Parties 188k272 Parties to Bet or Game 188k275 Recovery of Property Wagered or Lost 188k275(4) Particular  Contexts 188k275(7) k. Lotteries. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 247k14  Lotteries) A bond given for the purchase of tickets in a lottery unauthorized by law is void. Bonds 58 k 26 58 Bonds 58I Requisites and Validity 58k26 k. Consideration. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k27) An illegal consideration vitiates a bond no less than a parol agreement. Bonds 58 k 87 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k87 k. Rights and liabilities on assignment or sale. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k88) Where a bond with an illegal consideration is assigned, and the assignee is induced to buy or keep it by the representations of the obligor until recourse is lost on the assignor, the liability of the obligor to the assignee is based upon his representations, and not upon the bond. Bonds 58 k 123 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k123 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k125) The consideration can be impeached only by a special plea. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of debt brought by Morton, as assignee of David Williamson, upon an obligation given to Williamson by the appellees. The appellees pleaded that the obligation was given in consideration of lottery tickets in a lottery of David Williamson, or scheme for the distribution of property unauthorized by law, etc. The appellant, Morton, replied that before the obligation became due and payable, being ignorant of the consideration for which it was given, and having an opportunity of returning it to Williamson and obtaining satisfaction therefor, he applied to the appellees to know whether the obligation was good, and would be punctually paid if the appellant should retain it; and avers that the appellees did then and there assure the appellant that the obligation was good, and would be punctually paid, and in faith of those assurances the appellant retained the obligation until it became payable, at which time the said Williamson had became insolvent and unable to indemnify the appellant therefor, &c. No debt can be created by the purchase of lottery tickets unauthorized by law; a bond given for such consideration is merely void. To this replication the appellees demurred, and the appellant having joined in demurrer, judgment was rendered against the appellant in bar of his action. From that judgment he has appealed to this court. Vide 1 Marshall, 198; Clarke v. Havens, acc. Assuming the obligation to have been given in consideration of lottery tickets, as lotteries are interdicted by law there is no question but the obligation is not only voidable, but absolutely void. But as the consideration for which it was given is not apparent upon the face of the obligation, it is true, it became necessary for the appellees to impeach the obligation by special plea. Not, however, as was contended in argument, because the obligation was voidable only, but in abidance to the rules of pleading, to enable the court to decide upon its invalidity. *2 The consideration of such bond m??, impeached by special plea. If such bond be assigned and the assignee is induced to buy it or keep it by the representations of the obligor until recourse is lost on the assignor, the liability of obligor is created by his representations and not by the bond. If the obligation is void, therefore it follows conclusively, that the replication furnishes no sufficient answer to the plea. The subsequent assurances, alleged by the replication, to have been made by the appellees, if induced by a valid consideration, may have imposed upon them a liability to the appellant; but then their accountability results not from any thing contained in the obligation, but from their promise to pay the assignee, and consequently, to obtain indemnity, the appellant should resort to his action upon the assumpsit made to himself, and not an action upon the void obligation given to his assignor. The judgment must therefore be affirmed with cost. Haggin for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1819. Morton v. Fletcher 2 A.K.Marsh. 137, 9 Ky. 137, 1819 WL 1178 (Ky.), 12 Am.Dec. 366 END OF DOCUMENT
