(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 465,  9 Ky. 465 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1097 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thomas Harper et al. v. Betsey Wilson et al. Oct. 4, 1820. *1 ON APPEAL TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 303(4) 409 Wills 409V Probate or Contest of Will 409V(M) Evidence 409k299 Weight and Sufficiency 409k303 Testimony of Attesting  Witnesses 409k303(4) k. Necessity of proof by all of the  attesting witnesses. Most Cited Cases Though a will devising lands requires more than one subscribing witness, yet it may be admitted to record on the proof by one of its execution. Wills 409 k 457 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(A) General Rules 409k454 Language of Instrument 409k457 k. Technical words. Most Cited  Cases The expression, "if I die without heir," is held to mean, "if I die without child," in the will of a testator unskilled in legal technicalities. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court, dismissing a bill exhibited in that court by the appellants against the appellees. The main and only ground upon which there was any plausible pretext for resorting to a court of equity for relief, is that of a claim to the land in contest, asserted by the appellants in their own right, and through others, as heirs of Peter Harper, deceased. That claim is repelled by the appellees, upon the ground, as they allege in their answer, of Peter Harper not having died intestate; and they exhibit, from the records of the Fayette county court, the copy of a will, which they charge was duly made and published by the said Peter, and by which they contend the land in contest was devised to Betty Harper, the mother of Peter, and through whom they derive the interest they hold in the land, &c. The will is in the following words, viz: "I do hereby will unto mother, Betty Harper, the half of my land and livings, after my decease, and if I die without heir, then she is to have all that I possess; but if I have any heir, then the whole is to be left to my heir after my mother's decease. This I acknowledge to be my hand and seal, this 10th of October, 1785. PETER HARPER, (Seal.) Witness, ISAAC HARPER, SARAH HARPER." Attached to this copy of the will, is the following order of the county court of Fayette: "Fayette county, March court, 1790. This will was produced in court, proved by the oath of Sarah Harper, a subscribing witness thereto, and ordered to be recorded. Teste, THOMAS ARNOLD, D. C. F. C. On the part of the appellants it is contended, the will is not sufficiently proven to pass the land to the devisee, therein described; but if it were, it is urged, that as Peter Harper left living, at the time of his death, brothers and sisters, the mother can not have acquired the right to all the time of the testator's death, were, in legal contemplation, his heirs. And, on the part of the appellees, it is insisted, that the expression, heir, used in the will, should be construed to mean child, and that upon the event of the testor dying childless, he intended to give the whole of his estate to his mother. *2 The latter and not the former construction, we are of opinion, ought to be given to the will. The will was evidently written by a person uninformeding legal technicalities, and ought to be construed by giving to the language employed by the testator, its popular and not its technical acceptation. Pursuing this rule of interpretation, there can we apprehend, be little doubt as to the testator's intention. In their popular sense, the expressions if I die without heir," and "if I have any heir," implies the dying without, or having a child, or heir of the testator's body. Such, we suppose, to be the understanding of those expressions in their usual and common acceptation with persons not skilled in legal matters, and such is the sense in which we think the testator designed to imply them. Terms usual in a will, drawn evidently by an unskillful man, shall be scanned by their popular not their technical meaning--in ope constitii. That those expressions should be so construed, is moreover evident from the adjudications of the court of appeals of Virginia on analogous cases. In  3 Call. 354, the expressions in a will, "in case my son, Thomas Hill, dies without lawful heir," was held to be equivalent to, and construed to mean, heirs of his body. And in 1 Hen. and Mun, 550, the same import was given to the expressions, "if my son, James Fisher, should die without lawful heir." If, then, we are correct in the construction thus given to the wills, it results that unless the proof of its execution is insufficient, the circuit court did right in decreeing a dismission of the appellants' bill; for it is in proof that the testator, at the time of his death, had no child, and, according to our construction, it was upon the happening of that contingency the whole of his estate was to go to his mother. And as to the proof of the execution of the will, it need only be remarked, that its admission to record is sufficient to shew that the witness by whom it was proven in that court, established every fact essential to its due execution; and it is a settled rule, that although more than one witness is required to subscribe a will disposing of land, the evidence of one may be sufficient to prove it, as was held by this court in the case of _______ at the spring term, 1820. Though a will devising lands requires more than one subscribing witness, yet the proof of one witness proving the attestation of the others, is good to admit the will to record--and if it be recorded it will be presumed the witness proved enough. The decree must be affirmed with cost. Hardin, for appellants; Pope, for appellees. Ky.App. 1820. Harper v. Wilson 2 A.K.Marsh. 465, 9 Ky. 465, 1820 WL 1097 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
