(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 39,  10 Ky. 39 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1152 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Henry Lee v. Hughes' Adm'r. Nov. 29, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MASON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 44(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k43 Joint and Separate Claims and Liabilities 352k44 In General 352k44(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases An obligor may set off against the obligation of his bond an account for goods purchased by the obligee of a firm of which the obligor is a partner, where the obligor and obligee agree that such account shall be so set off. Bonds 58 k 123 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k123 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k128) To an action on a bond, a plea of payment is supported by an account of goods purchased by the obligee of the firm of which the obligor was a partner, under an agreement that the goods should be applied in payment of the bond. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: To recover the amount of an obligation given by Lee, in 1806, to the intestate, Hughes, his administrator brought this action in the circuit court against Lee. Lee pleaded to pleas--1st, Payment; and 2d, Accord and satisfaction. By the plea of accord Lee alleges, that after the writing obligatory was executed, to-wit, on the     day of     and before the decease of the intestate, it was agreed between him and the intestate, that the intestate should take up merchandise and store goods, in a store kept and owned by him, the said Henry Lee, and his brother Peter Lee, as partners, in the town of Washington, to the full amount of said obligation; and that, in consideration thereof, the said James Hughes, on receiving in merchandise from the store aforesaid, the amount of said obligation, should deliver up to the said H. Lee the obligation aforesaid; and the said Lee alleges, that in consideration of the agreement aforesaid, the said Hughes did receive in merchandise, from the store aforesaid, in satisfaction of the obligation aforesaid, the full amount thereof, &c. To each of these pleas the plaintiff replied, and issues being thereto joined, a jury was called. On the trial of the issues, it was proven by William Lashbrook, the store keeper for H. and P. Lee, that Hughes received merchandise from their store, at various times, between the 9th of May, 1809, and the 8th of January, 1811, to an amount greater than the obligation upon which the suit is brought; and that in 1814, he presented the account to Hughes, who, after examining it, acknowledged it to be correct, and observed, that he held H. Lee's obligation and intended to pay the account therewith, and that he would bring the note to the store and give it up, and have a credit entered therefor, and pay the balance of the account. The witness further said, that Hughes, at the same time, observed, it was understood that he was to have a credit for the obligation on H. Lee; and Peter Lee, being also present, replied, that it was very well, and consented that the account should stand for two or three weeks, at which time Hughes was to bring the note. It was further proven by Peter Lee that he applied to Hughes for the money due him and H. Lee on the account, at which time Hughes observed he had agreed with his brother, H. Lee, to take up the amount of the note in the store, and promised to produce and deliver the note to H. Lee, and settle the account; and that he, Peter Lee, then agreed that the note might be settled in the account. Peter Lee further proved, that he was partner in the store with H. Lee, from which the goods were received by Hughes, and that the goods were charged to Hughes and not to H. Lee, being sold to Hughes on his own credit, he not knowing of the contract between Hughes and H. Lee, and not hearing of it until he was afterwards informed thereof by Hughes. This was, in substance, all the evidence; whereupon the court, at the instance of the plaintiff, instructed the jury, that the evidence was insufficient, under the issues joined, to entitle the defendant Lee to a verdict for the account, and that they must disregard the same, and find for the plaintiff the amount of the obligation. *2 Under these instructions, a verdict was found for the plaintiff, and judgment rendered thereon in favor of him. We think the court erred in its instructions to the jury. We do not suppose that the agreement, proven to have been made between Peter Lee and Hughes, conduced, in any manner, to support the issues on the part of H. Lee; but we are of opinion, the confessions proven to have been made by James Hughes to the witnesses, should have been left with the jury, as conducing to prove, not only the accord alleged in the plea, but also the receipt of the goods by Hughes, under that accord, in satisfaction of the demand upon which suit is brought. The goods, it is true, appear to have been charged by Peter Lee to the account of Hughes and on his credit, but Hughes may, nevertheless, have received them in satisfaction of the demand on Henry Lee, under an agreement made with him; and although Peter Lee may not have been privy to that agreement, yet as Henry Lee was a partner with Peter, any agreement made with Hughes by Henry was binding on Peter also. An obligor may apply to the discharge of his bond an account for goods purchased by obligee of a firm of which the obligor is a partner, and the plea of payment, set off, or accord and satisfaction, will reach the case. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin and Bledsoe, for appellant; Haggin, contra. Ky.App. 1820. Lee v. Hughes' Adm'r 3 A.K.Marsh. 39, 10 Ky. 39, 1820 WL 1152 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
