(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 210,  17 Ky. 210 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1534 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kinsman v. Castleman & Co. Dec. 13, 1824. *1 Sheriff's Return, Bailiwick, Abatement, Arrest of Judgm?? Error. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JU?? West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 2 2 Abatement and Revival 2I Objections to Jurisdiction 2k2 k. Jurisdiction of the Person. Most Cited Cases The return of a deputy sheriff of the county where the suit is brought, that part of the defendants are not inhabitants of his bailiwick, but not stating that they are not inhabitants of his county, and the return of the deputy sheriff of another county, that they are not inhabitants of his county, do not authorize an abatement as to them. Bills and Notes 56 k 448 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k448 k. Nature and Form of Remedy. Most Cited Cases Petition and summons may be maintained against all the members of a firm on a note subscribed by the name of one of them "& Co." OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was a petition and summons, brought aga?? Lewis Castleman, William S. Dallam, Richard M. J??son, James Johnson, William Ward, Uriel Sebree, J?? Brandt and Jacob Foster, by Israel Kinsman, upo?? note for one hundred and five dollars and forty-f?? cents, signed "Lewis Castleman and Co." The members of of the company. The petition was filed with the clerk of the Fay?? circuit court, and a summons issued to the sherif?? that county, on the 9th of January, 1823, against all?? defendants, and was returned, "Executed on Le?? Castleman, jun. by delivering to him a true copy of ?? petition and summons. Richard M. Johnson, Ja?? Johnson, William Ward Uriel Sebree, John Bra?? and Jacob Foster, are no inhabitants of my bailiw?? (Signed) Ro. G. Dudley, D. S. for John C. Richard?? S. F. C." Return of the sheriff of Fayette. There also issued, on the same day, a summons to ??he sheriff of Scott county, against all the defendants, ??nd was returned, "Executed on the within named ??ames Johnson, February 20th, 1823, by delivering a ??rue copy of the within summons and petition. Rich??rd M. Johnson not found. The other defendants nam??d ??d within, are no inhabitants of my county. (Signed) ??. Smith, D. S. for John Thompson, S. S. C." Return of the sheriff of Scott. At the March term thereafter, Dallam appeared and ??leaded non est factum, and the suit was abated as to ??he defendants, Ward, Sebree, Brandt and Foster, in ??onsequence of the sheriff's return upon the summons, ??nd an alias summons was ordered against Richard M. ??ohnson. A pluries summons was also ordered, at a ??ubsequent term, against Richard M. Johnson, and was ??eturned "executed," by the sheriff of Scott, to whom ?? was directed. Plea by one defendant, and suit abated as to three others, in consequence of sheriff's return. At the September term, 1823, the issue made up to ??allam's plea was found against him by the jury and ??e other defendants upon whom process had been ?? erved, failing to appear, judgment was rendered ??gainst them, and Dallam, for the debt, interest and ??sts. *2 Trial and judgment. Judgment arrested, because petition did not lie on the note. Errors were then filed in arrest of judgment, by the ??efendants, and the judgment was accordingly arrested. The only ground relied upon in arrest of judgment in ??e court below, is, that the note upon which the suit ?? founded does not justify the proceedings by petition ??d summons against the defendants. (1.) We cannot, however, admit that the judgment ??ght to have been arrested on that ground. Though ??ly signed by the name of "Castleman and Co." the ??te is unquestionably binding upon all of the partners ?? the firm trading under the style of Castleman and ??.; and as it is for the direct payment of money, comes ??nphatically within the act of assembly authorizing ??e holder of a note to sue thereon by petition and sum??ons. (1) Petition and summons may be maintained against all the members of a firm, on a note subscribed by the name of one of them "and Co." But, without controverting the propriety of the ac??on brought by Kinsman, other objections to the pro??edings in the court were taken in the argument at the ??r, for which it was insisted the judgment ought not ?? be reversed. (2.) It was contended that the return of the sheriffs ??on the summonses which went to Fayette and Scott, did not authorize an abatement of the action as to a?? of the defendants; and as the action was abated as ?? Ward, Sebree, Brandt and Foster, it was contend?? that the judgment thereafter rendered against the ot??er defendants, was erroneous, and of course correct?? arrested. (2) Return of a deputy sheriff of the county where the suit is brought, that part of the defendants are not inhabitants of the bailiwick, and of the deputy sheriff of another county, that they are no inhabitants of his county, does not authorize an abatement as to them. That the abatement was not authorized by the ?? turns of the sheriffs, is a proposition we shall not ?? tempt to controvert. If the sheriff had returned up?? the summons which issued to Fayette, that the defen??ants, Ward, Sebree, Brandt and Foster, were no inha??itants of that county, as was done by the sheriff up?? the summons which went to the county of Scott, the?? would have been no legal objection to the abatemen?? but such is not the import of the return upon the su??mons to Fayette. The return upon that summons w?? made by the deputy sheriff, and instead of going ?? show that either of the defendants was no inhabita?? it barely states part of the defendants to be no inha??tants of his bailiwick, between which and the coun?? there is, in legal contemplation, an essential differen?? and it is only in the case of a defendant being return?? no inhabitant of his county, by a sheriff, that the act?? assembly authorizes an abatement. (3.) It is true, the summons which went to Scott c??tains the sort of return, which in the general, tolera?? an abatement, but under the circumstances of this ca?? the effect must be otherwise, for the action was co??menced in the county of Fayette, and although part?? the defendants are returned by the sheriff Scott, to ?? no inhabitants of that county, they may neverthel?? be inhabitants of Fayette; and as they are not sho?? to be otherwise, by the return of the Fayette sher?? the action ought not to have been abated as to them?? *3 (3) An arrest of judgment because the action had been improperly abated as to part of the defendants, is essentially different from an arrest because the action could not be maintained in the form it was brought. But whilst we admit the order abating the action ?? to part of the defendants to be irregular, we cannot ?? mit that the judgment of the court below ought to ?? permitted to stand. Upon the supposition of the aba??ment being irregular, it was no doubt correct to ?? rest the judgment; but the effect of an arrest of ju??ment for that cause, is widely different from an arr?? of judgment for the cause, for which the judgment v?? arrested by the court below. In the former case, the abatement should be corrected, and the cause proceed from that point; in the latter, no further proceedings can be had. In the former case, after arresting the judgment, the ??ror in ordering of the abatement should be corrected ??d the proceedings directed to commence at that ??int; whereas, in the latter case, as the judgment was ?? rested on the ground of the action being misconceiv??, there could be no further proceedings in the action, ??d if the judgment were permitted to stand, the plain??ff would be concluded from prosecuting a petition and ??mmons upon the note held by him against the defen??nts. Judgment for this error in the cause of arresting the judgment, reversed with costs, with directions to arrest the judgment rightly, set aside the order of abatement and proceed from that point. To avoid such a consequence, therefore, the judg??ent must be reversed with costs, and the cause re??anded to the court below, and the judgment which ??as entered in that court in favor of the plaintiff, must ??e set aside, together with the order abating the action ?? to part of the defendants, and such proceedings there ??d, as may either cause the process to be executed up?? Ward, Sebree, Brandt and Foster, or such return ??ade thereon as will authorize an abatement as to ??em, and such further proceedings there had, as may ?? consistent with this opinion. Dana, for plaintiff; Wickliffe, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Kinsman v. Castleman 1 T.B.Mon. 210, 17 Ky. 210, 1824 WL 1534 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
