(Cite as: 3 Bibb 249,  6 Ky. 249 (Ky.),  1813 WL 674 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hancock, etc. v. Brinker. Dec. 13, 1813. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 40 161 Execution 161II Property Subject to Execution 161k40 k. Equitable Estates or Interests in General. Most Cited Cases A. purchased, at a sale on execution against the estate of B., a lot of land in the town of C., the legal title of which was in the trustees of said town, and obtained a decree for the trustees to convey said lot to him.  Held, that as B.'s interest in said lot was but an equity, not liable to be sold on execution, the decree must be reversed. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 BRINKER, the defendant in error, having purchased at a sheriff's sale under an execution against the estate of Teney Hancock, one of the plaintiffs in error, a lot in the town of Newcastle, the title of which was in the trustees of said town; and having obtained a deed of conveyance therefor from the sheriff, exhibited his bill in chancery, making the trustees, Hancock and those through whom Hancock derived his interest in the lot, defendants; and obtained a decree for the trustees to convey him the lot: to reverse which decree Hancock, etc., have prosecuted this writ of error. A town lot, the legal title to which is in the trustees of the town, is not liable to be sold by execution against the debtor, who has an equitable title. That the debtor held it by deed from one who had himself but an equitable title does not alter the case. And a bill in equity will not lie on behalf of the purchaser at sheriff's sale to complete the title--Accord. Buford v. Buford, vol. 1, 305--Allen v. Sanders, vol. 2, 94; Thomas v. Marshall, Hard. 191. The question for decision in this cause is, had Hancock such an interest in the lot as was liable to be sold under an execution? It has been heretofore repeatedly held, and the doctrine is now considered as incontrovertibly settled, that an equitable interest in land is not liable to be sold by an execution. It was, however, contended in argument that this case should form an exception to the rule, because, although the legal title is in the trustees, Hancock held the lot under a deed of conveyance. We are of opinion, however, the circumstance of a deed having been given to Hancock for the lot by a person not holding the legal title, cannot affect the case. His interest is still but an equity. It is the same as if he held a bond for a title. And it is not the description of evidence by which his interest is proven, but the degree of that interest, which determines its liability to an execution. The interest, therefore, held by Hancock in the lot, being but an equity, was not liable to be sold by the sheriff, and consequently Brinker did not acquire such a right under his purchase as will authorize a decree against the trustees for a conveyance. The decree, therefore, is erroneous, and must be reversed with costs. Ky.App. 1813. Hancock v. Brinker 3 Bibb 249, 6 Ky. 249, 1813 WL 674 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
