(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 536,  10 Ky. 536 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1770 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Chambers v. Thomas. Jun. 11, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 9 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353I Appointment, Qualification, and Tenure 353I(B) Constables 353k9 k. Appointment or Election. Most Cited  Cases Although it is the duty of the county court to lay off the county into districts, and, in the appointment of constables, to say in what districts they shall respectively act, yet, if a constable be appointed for the county generally, his appointment, though erroneous, will not be void. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 85 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k85 k. Disqualification to Act. Most Cited Cases An officer cannot lawfully levy an execution in which he is interested. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment recovered against Chambers in an action of trover and conversion, brought against him, in the circuit court, by Thomas. On the trial in that court it was proven that the bureau (for conversion of which this suit was brought) formerly belonged to a certain Robert Spratt, and whilst in his possession it was taken by Thomas, who was the deputy sheriff of a certain Aaron Hall, sheriff of Montgomery, under an execution which issued upon a judgment of the circuit court of Montgomery in his, the said Thomas' favour against the estate of said Spratt, and after exposing the bureau to sale at public auction, Thomas became the purchaser at the sale so made by himself. After this evidence was introduced, and after it was also proven that the bureau was afterwards taken and sold by Chambers as constable, under an execution directed to him, and which had issued from a magistrate against the estate of said Spratt, the court were asked to instruct the jury, that inasmuch as Thomas was plaintiff in the execution under which he made the sale of the bureau, he could not, as deputy sheriff, execute said writ of execution. But the court overruled the application, and instructed the jury, that as deputy sheriff, Thomas might lawfully execute his own writ and although he could not lawfully purchase, at the sale made by himself, yet he might hold the bureau and make another sale, and that possession in the plaintiff was sufficient to maintain the action against a wrong doer. A deputy sheriff can not serve an execution in favor of himself or principal. We apprehend the court erred in deciding that Thomas as deputy sheriff might lawfully execute the writ which issued in his own favor. We have not been able to find any adjudged case, where such a question has ever been made; but cases analagous in principle, and a correct and impartial administration of justice alike forbid the execution of either an original or final process by the plaintiff. The principal sheriff is never allowed to execute his own process, and so careful is the law in guarding the interest of the defendant in such a case, not even the deputy is permitted to execute the process, but it must go to the coroner, an officer not supposed to be under the influence of the sheriff. A deputy, it is true, is appointed by the principal sheriff, and regularly acts in the name of the principal, and the principal is liable for any improper conduct of the deputy, in the exercise of the office. But the recourse which may be had to the principal, may not be adequate to guard the interest of defendants against the wily acts of an interested deputy. If such recourse were deemed competent, instead of finding a prohibition against the principal sheriff executing his own process, we might expect to see a permission for him to do so, and recourse barely given against him for an abuse of his authority; for there is as much probability that the principal sheriff would faithfully execute a process in his own cause, as that a deputy would do so in a cause in which he is a party, and for an abuse of the process, in either case, the principal sheriff is under precisely the same liability. *2 In the further progress of the trial in the circuit court Chambers introduced as evidence an order from the records of the Montgomery county court, appointing him constable of that county, and showing that in accordance to that appointment he took the oath and executed the necessary bond required by law; and after proving that as constable and in virtue of an execution which issued from a magistrate against the estate of Robert Spratt, he took and sold the bureau, the court, on the motion of Thomas, instructed the jury that the appointment of Chambers as constable by the county court, was illegal and void, and that he could not justify under the execution in virtue of which he had taken and sold the bureau. Although it is not strictly regular for the county court to appoint a constable without allotting him a particular district, yet such general appointment is not void. The principle upon which the court decided the order of appointment void, is not suggested on the record, but it was intimated in argument that the order was supposed by the court to be of no effect in consequence of the appointment of Chambers as constable, having been made for the county, and not for any particular district in the county. It would, no doubt have conformed more strictly with the letter of the act under which the appointment was made, for the county court to have districted the county, and in its order of appointment asigned to Chambers a particular district. But the failure to do so, we apprehend, does not render the appointment an absolute nullity. The order of appointment may be erroneous, but it is not absolutely void. The power of appointing constables is given to the county court and the directions contained in the law for districting the county is barely directory to the court, and if not conformed to, although reprehensible in the court, the appointment should not in consequence thereof be held void. Even after the county is districted the constable of any district, though not compellable to serve process out of the limits of the district assigned him yet he may serve process anywhere within the county; and as he may serve process beyond the limits of his district, he must be considered as a county officer, and consequently an order appointing him constable of the county without specifying the district to which he is particularly assigned, cannot render his appointment absolutely void. It results that the judgment of the court below must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to that court and further proceedings there had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1821. Chambers v. Thomas 3 A.K.Marsh. 536, 10 Ky. 536, 1821 WL 1770 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
