(Cite as: 3 Bibb 434,  6 Ky. 434 (Ky.),  1814 WL 816 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Warford v. Camron. Oct. 10, 1814. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 39(3) 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(A) Nature, Grounds, Subjects, and Extent of Jurisdiction in General 150k37 Retention of Jurisdiction Acquired 150k39 Complete  Relief 150k39(3) k. Damages. Most Cited  Cases Where the court has jurisdiction of a cause as originally brought, the discovery of facts which render compensation in damages necessary will not devest it of jurisdiction. Evidence 157 k 113(21) 157 Evidence 157IV Admissibility in General 157IV(A) Facts in Issue and Relevant to Issues 157k113 Value or Market Price of Property 157k113(21) k. Circumstances Adding to or Detracting  from Value in General. Most Cited Cases A., by a written contract, agree to convey to B. half of a tract of land in consideration of B.'s locating the same.  A. having sold more than one-half of the land after the location, B. brought a bill for conveyance;  but the court, being of opinion that A. had put it out of his power to convey, decreed that a jury should ascertain the value of the land. Before the jury, A. offered to show, by the production of title papers, interfering claims to the land, and to prove the value of the land with reference to such conflicting claims.  Held, that the evidence was admissible. Evidence 157 k 419(2) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k419 Nature of Consideration 157k419(2) k. Deeds in General. Most Cited  Cases Parol evidence is admissible to show the actual consideration for a deed. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 IN 1780, Camron and Warford entered into a written contract, by which Camron undertook to locate for Warford 1200 acres of land; and Warford to convey, in one convenient and entire tract, 600 acres of the same to Camron. Camron located the land in three different tracts, one of 200, one of 400, and a third 600 acres, and exhibited his bill in equity for a conveyance to 600 acres, according to Warford's agreement. Warford by his answer to the bill admits the execution of the written agreement, but alleges Camron at the time promised to locate first rate land, and charges he has failed to comply with his promise, and has located third rate land. Camron then filed an amended bill, in which he charges Warford has sold the 200 acre tract, 400 acres of the 600 acre tract, and 200 acres of the 400 acre tract; and prays for such a decree as may be consistent with equity. Warford by his answer to the amended bill admits the sale of the 200 acre tract, and 400 acres of the 600 acre tract, and makes no answer to the charge of sale as to the other tract. C locates 1200 acres of land for W, upon an agreement that W shall convey 600 acres to C; C brings a bill for specific performance, by an amended bill he charges that W had conveyed away 800 acres of the land, whereby he is unable to perform his contract, and prays for general relief. The Court having jurisdiction of the cause originally the discovery of facts which renders a compensation in damages necessary, does not divest the Court of Chancery of its jurisdiction. The Court on a hearing being of opinion Warford by selling the land had placed it out of his power to comply with his contract with Camron, decreed a jury should ascertain the value at the date when Warford conveyed the land to others, if the deeds were produced by Warford; but if not, its value at the taking the inquest. Before the jury, Warford offered to show by the production of title papers, interfering claims to the land, and to prove the value of the land with reference to such interferences. This inquiry was opposed by Camron and refused by the Court. After the verdict of the jury, Warford moved to set aside the interlocutory decree, but his motion was overruled by the Court and a final decree pronounced in favor of Camron for the value of the land as assessed by the jury. From this decree Warford has prosecuted this writ of error. Although the complainant had a right to elect to take the 200 acres unsold, and damages for the residue, yet the defendant had no right to insist that the complainant should accept a partial performance. Upon the contract C was not entitled to a general warranty; and evidence of interfering claims was proper evidence to be submitted to the jury upon the question of quantum damnificatus. Upon an inquest of damages directed by the chancellor, parol evidence is admissible, and title papers respecting adversary claims were also admissible. To this decree it is objected that the Court erred in decreeing compensation for the whole 600 acres agreed to be conveyed by Warford. It will not be denied that a bill in equity framed exclusively for compensation in damages for a breach of covenant, could not be maintained; but it is equally clear that the specific execution of contracts forms one of the principal and fundamental pillars of equitable jurisdiction. And it is manifest the original bill in this case was brought for the special purpose of compelling the specific execution of the contract with Warford. It is true by the amendment to Camron's bill, he appears to have ascertained Warford had sold part of the land, and suggested additional allegations changing materially the features of the cause in relation to the decree necessary to be made. But as equity had jurisdiction of the subject matter of the original bill, for the purpose of carrying into effect the contract, the discovery of facts changing the nature of the relief, and suggested by an amendment to the bill, should not tend to exclude the jurisdiction which in the first instance properly attached, but the cause should be retained for the purpose of giving relief according to the equitable circumstances of the case. If, therefore, under the circumstances of this case, Camron is equitably entitled to compensation for the whole 600 acres, according to the valuation made by the jury, the decree must be affirmed. That he is entitled to compensation, we think abundantly evident. The evidence satisfactorily proves a performance by Camron of his part of the contract; for although Warford has alleged a promise by Camron to locate first rate land, and has made some effort to prove a negligent and improper execution of the contract on his part, it may be observed that no evidence of such a promise has been produced; and the evidence in the cause does not exhibit such a degree of negligence on the part of Camron as to preclude his right to relief in a Court of Equity. But, on the contrary, it is manifest by the admissions in Warford's answer to part of the allegations of Camron's bill, and his evasive answer to other allegations, that Warford has sold the 200 acre tract, 400 acres of the 600 acre tract, and 200 acres of the 400 acre tract located by Camron. Whatever, therefore, may be the true construction of the agreement of Warford to convey, it is evident he cannot comply therewith; for if he was bound to convey a moiety of each tract, his having sold the 200 acre tract and 400 acres of the 600 acre tract, disables him from performing his contract; or if, as we suppose the more correct construction, Warford was bound to convey the 600 acre tract, it is evident that after selling a part to others, he cannot comply with his contract to Camron. *2 But it was objected in argument, that though Warford may not be able to convey the 600 acres according to contract, for so much thereof as he has title he should have been decreed to convey, and compensation for the residue. To this objection it may be answered, that a purchaser, though he may elect to take part of a tract, where the vendor cannot convey the whole, and recover compensation for the residue, yet by no principle of law or rule of equity can he be compelled to take a title to part, where the vendor has voluntarily put it out of his power to make a title to the whole. As, therefore, in this case, Warford has by his voluntary act rendered it impossible to perform his part of the contract, Camron has a right to compensation to the full value of the 600 acres which Warford was bound to convey. It remains, therefore, to determine whether the Court erred in not permitting Warford to give evidence to the jury of the interfering claims on the land, and its value with reference thereto. It is clear, from a sound construction of the contract, Cameron was entitled to a special warranty deed only to the land; and it is evident had Warford conveyed the land according to contract, free from fraud, and an eviction had afterward taken place under such a warranty he would not be liable to make any compensation to Camron. As then Camron by the contract was only equitably entitled to the land, subject to all incumbrances from adversary claims, it is plain the value of the land with reference to those claims, is the extent to which he has been injured in not obtaining a title. To the amount of this injury, and to that amount only, is Camron in this case entitled to compensation. But it was urged in argument, the Court properly rejected the production of title papers and evidence to the jury to establish those interfering claims and their value, in as much as it would be introducing matter extraneous from the record, not contemplated by the interlocutary order directing an inquest. Were the introduction of parol evidence on making such inquests inadmissible, according to the correct chancery practice, the decision of the Court in this case would have been correct. But it is not only every day's practice, but that practice has been recognized by this Court, to admit parol evidence on making such inquests. If then parol evidence was admissible to prove the value of the land without interfering claims, it is impossible to perceive a reason why the title papers of the adversary claims should not have been received as tending to the same end: for as the value with reference to those claims formed the rule of compensation when a jury was directed to ascertain the value, to enable them to do so, the production of those title papers, and parol evidence of value in relation thereto, became peculiarly necessary and proper. We are therefore of opinion the Court erred in rejecting the evidence offered by Warford. The decree must consequently be reversed, and the cause remanded to that Court for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Warford v. Camron 3 Bibb 434, 6 Ky. 434, 1814 WL 816 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
