(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 398,  22 Ky. 398 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1168 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kennedy and Woods v. Vanwinkle. Jan. 1, 1828. *1 Writ of Enquiry. Practice. Damages. Bank Notes. APPEAL FROM THE WAYNE CIRCUIT; JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGE. West Headnotes Covenant, Action Of 107 k 1 107 Covenant, Action Of 107k1 k. Nature and Scope of Remedy. Most Cited Cases The form of action upon an agreement to pay a certain sum in bank notes should be covenant if the agreement be sealed, in which action plaintiff can recover his real damages according to the value of the notes, which is to be ascertained by the jury. Damages 115 k 59 115 Damages 115III Grounds and Subjects of Compensatory Damages 115III(B) Aggravation, Mitigation, and Reduction of Loss 115k59 k. Matter of Mitigation;  Collateral Source Rule in  General. Most Cited Cases In a suit on a covenant to pay bank notes of the banks of other states, which were paying specie when the covenant was made, evidence may be received, in mitigation of damages, that such bank notes are under par. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Vanwinkle, as assignee for Scott, sued Kennedy and Woods upon the following covenant: Covenant for bank notes sued upon. "For value received of William Scott, we, or either of us, promise to pay him, against the first day of January, 1824, the just and full sum of four hundred dollars in notes on the Bank of Tennessee, Alabama, North Carolina or Virginia; that is, if neither of the banks should fail. Given under our hands the 19th December, 1822. ROBERT KENNEDY, (Seal.) ANDREW WOODS, (Seal.") Breach of the covenant is alleged by Vanwinkle in his declaration, in non-payment of the four hundred dollars in notes of either of the banks of Tennessee, Alabama, North Carolina or Virginia. Assignment of breach. No plea was filed by Kennedy or Woods, and on enquiry of damages, they offered to prove the value of the notes of the bank of Tennessee, when the covenant sued on became payable; but the evidence was objected to by the counsel for Vanwinkle, and excluded by the court. On an enquiry of damages in an action of covenant for bank notes on the banks of Tennessee, N. Carolina, Alabama, or Virginia, excluding such as should not be paying specie, the defendant may prove the value of the paper when payable, in diminution of the damages. We are at a loss to conjecture upon what principle the court was governed in rejecting the evidence, unless it was supposed that the expression, "if neither of the banks should fail," used in the covenant, implies an understanding in the contracting parties, that the notes to be paid, were to be notes on specie paying banks, and in value equal to gold and silver. According to the fair import of the covenant, Kennedy and Woods, could not, we apprehend, have discharged their undertaking by the payment of notes on either of the banks mentioned, unless the bank whose notes might be offered in payment at the time was paying its notes in specie and if it were true, that the notes of specie paying banks were, at all times and in all places, equal in value to gold and silver, there would be great propriety in construing the covenant so as to impose an obligation upon Kennedy and Woods to pay in notes which would be at par with the current coin of the United States. But it is evident that each of those banks whose paper was payable, might at the time payment was to be made, have been discharging their notes in specie, and yet the notes of each might, in this country, have been under par, so that according to any construction of the covenant, it was competent for Kennedy and Woods to prove the value of the notes of either bank. *2 The evidence ought not, therefore, to have been excluded. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Mayes, for appellant. Ky.App. 1828. Kennedy v. Vanwinkle 6 T.B.Mon. 398, 22 Ky. 398, 1828 WL 1168 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
