(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 230,  8 Ky. 230 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1325 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thos. D. Owings, v. Dan'l. M'Clain et al. Jun. 7, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Tenancy in Common 373 k 19(1) 373 Tenancy in Common 373II Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities of Cotenants 373k19 Purchase of Outstanding Title or Claim 373k19(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases A purchase made by two jointly, from a father having no title, it being in his minor children, on the purchase being confirmed by the children to one of the purchasers, the other will be entitled to one-half of the land and one-half the rents and profits. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a decree of the court below, dismissing Owings' bill, brought not only for a division of a tract of land, but to compel Mansel to convey to him the one equal moiety. Owings asserts his right to a conveyance under a purchase of the land made by Mansel from Alexander M'Clain for the joint benefit of himself and Owings; but Mansel, although he admits the purchase, contends that, as M'Clain had not title to the land when the purchase was made, he ought not to be compelled to convey to Owings, especially, as he alleges, that he has become invested with the legal title, not in consequence of that purchase, but under a different and distinct purchase by him thereafter made from the sons of M' Clain. By the evidence and exhibits in the cause, there is no doubt but that the title resided in the sons of M'Clain when the purchase was made by Mansel, for himself and Owings and although Mansel is also shewn to have acquired the title from the sons, after they became of age, yet as it is obvious that when the purchase was made from the father, it was done with a view to the subsequent confirmation by the sons; and it is moreover satisfactorily proven, that it was by the sons' confirmation of the purchase from the father, Mansel obtained the title, he ought, most clearly, upon Owings paying what remains due for his part of the purchase money, if any thing, to be compelled to convey one moiety of the land. A purchase made for the joint benefit of the purchaser and a latent partner, from one having no title, but with the expectation that the holder of the title will confirm the sale, on the confirmation of the sale, will be decreed with rents in favor of the latent partner. And if entitled to one moiety of the land, it follows that Owings must also be entitled to the moiety of the rents and profits subsequently received by Mansel; and consequently an account should not only be taken of the price and payments by Owings for the land, but also of a debt of l50, due by Mansel to Owings, and an estimate of the rents and profits which have been received by Mansel. The decree must be reversed, the cause remanded, and after taking an account according to the foregoing opinion a decree finally pronounced for a conveyance and division of the land, and such other and further orders and decrees made as may comport with the equity of the case, and the rights of the parties, according to the principles of this opinion. *2 The appellant must recover his costs. Hardin & Haggin for appellant, Wickliffe for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Owings v. McClain 1 A.K.Marsh. 230, 8 Ky. 230, 1818 WL 1325 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
