(Cite as: 4 Bibb 286,  7 Ky. 286 (Ky.),  1815 WL 782 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cravens, etc. v. Hopson. Dec. 12, 1815. *1 "We do hereby transfer this note to H for value received, if A should not be good we stand good for him, and responsible for the same," under seal of the assignors, is only an ordinary assignment, and the assignee to recover of the assignors. must show that he has used due diligence by suit against the maker of the note so assigned.--See vol. 1, Spratt v. M'Kinney, 596-Smallwood v. Woods, 542. West Headnotes Assignments 38 k 96 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k95 Rights of Assignee as Against Assignor 38k96 k. Right of Recourse. Most Cited  Cases A sealed assignment, reciting that if the obligor of a chose assigned "should not be good, we stand good for him, and responsible for the same," does not excuse the assignee, as a condition precedent to a recovery from the assignor, from showing that he has used due diligence by suit against the obligor. Bills and Notes 56 k 191 56 Bills and Notes 56VII Transfer 56VII(A) By Indorsement 56k191 k. Anomalous Indorsements. Most Cited Cases An indorsement on a note in these words:  "We do hereby transfer this note to H., for value received. If A. should not be good, we stand good for him, and responsible,"-under seal of the assignors, is only an ordinary assignment. Bills and Notes 56 k 299 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(B) Indorsement for Transfer 56k299 k. Necessity, to Charge Indorser, of Proceeding  Against Maker. Most Cited Cases In order that the indorsee of a note may have recourse against the indorser, he must have shown due diligence against the maker, or that suit against him would have been unavailing. Bills and Notes 56 k 299 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(B) Indorsement for Transfer 56k299 k. Necessity, to Charge Indorser, of Proceeding  Against Maker. Most Cited Cases Under an indorsement:  "We do hereby transfer this note to H. for value received. If A. should not be good, we stand good for him, and responsible,"-duly signed and sealed, the assignee, in order to hold the assignors liable, must show due diligence by suit against the maker. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THOMAS ARTHUR, on the 15th day of December, 1810, gave to Cravens an obligation binding himself to pay $700 on the 1st of March, 1812; and on the same day Cravens and Campbell assigned the obligation to Hopson, by the following indorsement: "We do hereby transfer this note to William Hopson, for value received this 15th day of December, 1810.--Note, if Authur should not be good, we stand good for him and responsible for the same. N. Craven (seal). Ben. P. Campbell (seal)." *2 Arthur having failed to pay the obligation agreeable to its stipulations, Hopson brought this action of covenant against Cravens and Campbell upon their assignment. Several questions were agitated by the counsel in the course of the discussion at the bar, but as the main matter of dispute grows out of the legal operation of the indorsement, our inquiries will be confined exclusively to that subject. Whether by the indorsement the appellants are accountable to Hopson upon the happening of any other event than would make them liable in the case of an ordinary assignment, is therefore the only question we shall notice. If they have not, as the declaration seems to have been drawn upon a different supposition, and has altogether failed to allege the prosecution of a suit by Hopson on the bond of Arthur, or in anywise shown the exercise of due diligence in prosecuting that demand it must, according to a current of decisions of this Court be held fatally defective. In ascertaining the operation of the indorsement, and consequently the extent of the appellants' liability, it is certainly proper we should attend to the common intention of the contracting parties at the time it was made: for as the assent of the mind is of the essence of a contract, what the parties intended by yielding the assent should most assuredly form an essential consideration in construing the agreement. That intention we however suppose should be collected, not from an over strict adherence to general rules, but by understanding the words in that sense most suitable to the nature and subject matter of the contract. If then the understanding of the parties is to have any influence, we apprehend there can be but little doubt what construction should be given to the indorsement. It is only distinguished from an ordinary assignment, because it is under the seals of the assignors, and because of the note subjoined at the close of the indorsement. The circumstance of the assignment being under seal, in consequence of the solemnity of its execution the law considers it in a more dignified point of view, and instead of an action of assumpsit, which could otherwise have been proper, to obtain compensation an action of covenant is made the legitimate action; and in declaring, though a special consideration would be necessary in the former, yet as in consequence of the seals a sufficient consideration is implied, no consideration need be laid in the latter action. But with respect to the immediate cause of action, it is impossible the seals can have any effect whatever. The happening of the same contingencies must of necessity give a right of action, whether the assignment be sealed or not. If the prosecution of a suit with due diligence against the obligor, be necessary in the one case, so likewise it must be in the other. The circumstance of the subjoined note, "that if Arthur should not be good, the assignors would stand good for him, and accountable," we suppose was not intended by the parties (nor should it have the effect) to make Cravens liable under any other circumstances or to any other extent than he would have been under a general assignment: but as Campbell was no party to the obligation of Arthur, it was probably introduced to obviate any doubt as to his liability, and to make him equally accountable with Cravens. *3 The suggestion that the assignors were to stand good and be accountable, if Arthur should not be good, from the very nature of the subject about which the parties were contracting, cannot be understood as dispensing with the necessity of the exercise of proper diligence in pursuing the demand against Arthur. The subject of contract was the demand on Arthur, a mere chose in action; by the contract and assignment the right thereof was transferred to Hopson, and in his name, and his only, could an action be maintained. When, therefore, the parties speak of being accountable for that demand if the obligor should not be good, the fair inference is, the parties understood the assignors were to be accountable, if on the exercise of proper diligence by suit on the part of Hopson, Arthur the obligor should be ascertained not be good. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below and the plaintiff there have leave to amend his declaration, and such other proceedings there had as may be consistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Cravens v. Hopson 4 Bibb 286, 7 Ky. 286, 1815 WL 782 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
