(Cite as: 3 Bibb 186,  6 Ky. 186 (Ky.),  1813 WL 641 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Eastland v. Jordan. Oct. 12, 1813. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 41 161 Execution 161II Property Subject to Execution 161k41 k. Trust Estates. Most Cited Cases Where a slave was conveyed by a deed of trust that the proceeds of his hire should be applied to the maintenance of a person during his life, it was held that the estate held in the slave by the cestui que trust was subject to execution, and not the annual hire. Deeds 120 k 83 120 Deeds 120II Recording and Registration 120k83 k. Instruments Entitled to Record. Most Cited Cases The clerk of the county court is not authorized to admit a deed to record upon the proof of one witness only;  and such deed cannot be given in evidence upon the clerk's certificate, but the execution of the deed must be proved. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 SUSANNAH LIGHTFOOT, being the owner of a negro boy, Moses, transferred him to Jordan by deed, in trust, that the proceeds of his hire should be applied to the maintenance of Goodrich Lightfoot, during his life. Some time thereafter, Eastland obtained a judgment and sued out a fieri facias against the estate of Goodrich Lightfoot. By this execution the negro was sold by the sheriff, and Eastland became the purchaser. Jordan, the trustee, then brought an action of detinue against Eastland, for the negro. On the trial, Eastland moved the Court to instruct the jury, that the negro boy was liable to be sold under the execution against Goodrich Lightfoot, for at least during Goodrich's life. The Court, however, was of opinion, that the net annual proceeds from the boy's hire were alone liable to execution, and overruled the motion of Eastland. Judgment was obtained by Jordan, for the negro and damages, etc. A slave conveyed by a deed of trust, that the proceeds of his hire shall be applied to the maintenance of a person during his life, the estate held in the slave by the cestui que use is subject to execution and not the annual hire. Clerk not authorized to admit a deed to record upon the proof of one witness only. Such deed cannot be given in evidence upon the clerk's certificate, but execution of the deed must be proved. The main point in this cause, is, was the negro boy in anywise subject to the execution against Goodrich Lightfoot? By the 13th section of the act of 1796  (1 Littell, 572), concerning conveyances, it is provided, that "estates of every kind, holden or possessed in trust, shall be subject to like debts and charges of the person to whose use, or whose benefit they were or shall be respectively holden or possessed, as they would have been subject to, if those persons had owned the like interest in the things holden or possessed, as they shall own in the use or trust thereof." That the terms estates of all kinds, used in this section of the act, embrace slaves, we think too clear to admit of a doubt. Whether those terms are understood in their technical sense, or in their ordinary and usual acceptation, slaves are evidently embraced. Could a doubt, however, exist as to the import of those terms, it must be removed, when it is observed that the term estate, in other parts of the same act, is made to apply to slaves as well as land. If, then, slaves are embraced by the act, it is clear the interest of Goodrich Lightfoot was subject to the execution of Eastland: for if the interest of a cestui que trust, in estates falling within the provisions of the act, and expressly created by deed of trust is not subject to his debts, we can perceive no possible case which the act can reach, and it must be considered a dead letter. That the negro boy, during Goodrich Lightfoot's life, was liable to be sold by the execution, and not the net annual proceeds of his hire, as seems to have been the opinion of the Court below, we think equally clear. It is not the trust, but the estate itself held in trust, which is made subject to the debts of a cestui que trust. In this case the negro boy was the estate held by Jordan, in trust for Lightfoot, during his life; the boy, therefore, was the estate subject to be sold, and the Court, consequently erred in withholding the instructions asked by Eastland. *2 The deed of trust alluded to in this cause seems to have been admitted to record by the clerk of the County Court of Franklin, upon the proof of one witness only. At the trial in the Court below, it was objected to as evidence, unless proven by a subscribing witness. The objection was overruled and the deed used as evidence. It is clear, the Court had no authority to admit the deed to record, unless it had been acknowledged by the party, or proven by two witnesses at least. His having, therefore, certified its admission to record upon the oath of one witness, it is evident he exceeded his authority, and no advantage can be derived from its being recorded. The deed could not therefore have been used as evidence, unless proof had been made of its due execution. The judgment of Court below must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings consistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1813. Eastland v. Jordan 3 Bibb 186, 6 Ky. 186, 1813 WL 641 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
