(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 119,  9 Ky. 119 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1170 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Samuel H. Curd et al. v. Forts. Dec. 4, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL. West Headnotes Bonds 58 k 13 58 Bonds 58I Requisites and Validity 58k13 k. Signature. Most Cited Cases If a bond is sealed and delivered, signing is not essential to its validity. Bonds 58 k 123 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k123 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k124) A declaration averring that a bond was sealed with the seals of a company is good, and a further averment that it was signed by one of the firm will be rejected as surplusage. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment taken by default, against Samuel H. Curd, William Curd and Spencer Curd, in an action of debt brought against them upon an obligation, in the circuit court, by the Forts. Signing is not essential to the validity of an obligation, sealing and delivery is sufficient. The assignment of errors, question the sufficiency of the declaration. The declaration alleges that the Curds, trading in company by their writing obligatory, sealed with their seals, and signed by Samuel H. Curd, with the signature of Samuel H. Curd, &c. and to the court shewn, promise to pay, &c. A declaration averring the obligation to be sealed with the seals of a firm, is good, and if a farther averment is made that the signing was by one of the firm, that averment will be rejected as surplusage. It is objected that neither of the partners, without being specially authorized, could bind the firm by deed, and as the writing upon which the action is founded, is of that description, it is contended that the declaration should have averred the signing the name of the firm by Samuel H. Curd, to have been done under regular authority. Were the incapacity of partners to contract by deed admitted, we should, nevertheless, be of opinion the declaration in the present suit is substantially good. The declaration nowhere avers the obligation, either to have been sealed, or delivered by one only of the parties, it barely alleges the signature of the firm to have been made by Samuel H. Curd, and were the averment in relation to the signing stricken from the declaration, it would, notwithstanding, contain a good cause of action. The declaration would then conform to the most approved precedents, and contain every essential averment to the appellees' right of action. The declaration would not then contain an averment of the obligation being signed by the appellants, but it would contain their promise to pay by a deed sealed with three seals, and according to the settled doctrine of the common law, signing is not essential to the validity of the deed: Cro. Ja. 640; Com. Digest, title Fact, B 1. If, then, signing of the obligation is not essential to the appellees' right to recover, it follows, that the failure to aver a legal authority in Samuel H. Curd to sign the name of the firm, can not vitiate the declaration. *2 The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with cost and damages. Ky.App. 1819. Curd v. Forts 2 A.K.Marsh. 119, 9 Ky. 119, 1819 WL 1170 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
