(Cite as: 4 Bibb 75,  7 Ky. 75 (Ky.),  1815 WL 666 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Spurgen v. Robinet. May 31, 1815. *1 If a person sues a writ, describing himself as administrator, etc., and declares in same way, but lays the cause of action in his own right, plea that he is not adm'r, etc., is not good. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 444(2) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k444 Allegation and Denial of Representative Capacity 162k444(2) k. Requisites and Sufficiency in General.  Most Cited Cases If a plaintiff describes himself in the writ and declaration as administrator, but lays the cause of action in his own right, a plea that he is not administrator is not good. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment obtained by the defendant in error against the plaintiff, in an action brought by the latter against the former in the Circuit Court of Bourbon. The defendant was called on by the writ to answer "Samuel Spurgen, administrator of John Robinet, who was also administrator of Joseph Robinet;" and by the declaration, although in its commencement the plaintiff is described as in the writ, the cause of action is laid in his personal right. To this the defendant pleaded, first, that the plaintiff was not the administrator of John Robinet, and secondly, the general issue. To the first of these pleas the plaintiff demurred, and to the second joined issue to the country. The demurrer being joined, the plea was adjudged good by the Court below, and judgment entered in favor of the defendant. That judgment we are of opinion, cannot be sustained. Whether the plaintiff was or was not the administrator of John Robinet, cannot be material with respect to the cause of action in his own right. It is true, did it appear by any statement in either the writ or declaration that the plaintiff sued as administrator, it would not be strictly regular to lay the cause of action in his personal right; but as it does not appear by any allegation that the present plaintiff so sued, and as also his cause of action is laid in his personal right, although he is named administrator, etc., that should be taken as description of the person suing, rather than of the character in which he sues--See 1 Chit. on Pleading 253, 2 Black. Rep. 722. Although, therefore, that description may be a false one it cannot furnish a bar to the action, and the defendant's plea to that effect is consequently insufficient. The judgment must be reversed, the cause remanded to the Court below for a trial to be had upon the general issue. The plaintiff must recover his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Spurgen v. Robinet 4 Bibb 75, 7 Ky. 75, 1815 WL 666 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
