(Cite as: 3 Bibb 440,  6 Ky. 440 (Ky.),  1814 WL 818 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Craig, for the use of Estill v. Miller. 1814. West Headnotes Assignments 38 k 18 38 Assignments 38I Property, Estates, and Rights Assignable 38k17 Executory Contracts 38k18 k. In General. Most Cited Cases A contract containing mutual covenants cannot be assigned so as to enable the assignee to maintain an action of covenant thereon in his own name. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 CRAIG and Miller entered into, signed, sealed and delivered an article of agreement containing mutual covenants. Miller on his part covenanted that he would convey to Craig, within 120 days from the date of the articles of agreement, by a deed with special warranty containing a refunding clause, etc., the house and lot with its appurtenance in the town of Glasgow, Barren county, then occupied by William Miller as a storehouse; the property to be valued by two disinterested men mutually chosen, and in case of disagreement their umpire, at a fair exchange barter or trade price: and also farther covenanted to convey to said Craig, by such other like deed or deeds, within the same time, such other real estate of his the said Miller's lying and being in said county of Barren, as said Craig might choose, the choice being made so as not to injure by division the residue, and to be valued in the like manner, as will pay said Craig, when added to the valuation of said house and lot, the sum of $3696 52 cents: and the said Miller did farther covenant the said property, previous to the day of conveyance, should be fully exonerated from all mortgages and other incumbrances of any kind whatsoever. Upon this covenant Craig brought suit in the Court below, alleging in his declaration the valuation and conveyance of the house and lot in Glasgow, at the price of $3000, by Miller, but his failure to perform the residue of his covenant, although an election had been made by Craig. Miller appeared to the action and plead four several pleas--1. That Craig, previous to the commencement of the action, had by his indorsement on the articles of agreement assigned all his right, title and interest therein to Thomas Eastland. 2. Covenants performed. 3. A tender and refusal; and 4. A readiness to perform. An article of agreement containing mutual covenants, is not assignable, so as to enable the assignee to bring covenant in his own name. If one covenants to convey property such as the obligee shall choose out of the obligor's lands in the county of B, and after the covenant the obligor conveys to others a part of his lands in B, he has thereby disabled himself to perform his covenant. That the obligor's agent by parol agreement previous to the covenant, had agreed for the sale of the lands so subsequently conveyed away, does not excuse the breach. To the first of these pleas there was a demurrer and joinder; to the second, third and fourth replications and joinders. The law arising on the demurrer was adjudged in favor of Craig; and on the trial of issues to the other pleas, a general verdict was found for Miller. Craig then moved for a new trial, on the grounds of the verdict being contrary to evidence and the instructions of the Court; but his motion was overruled, and judgment rendered on the verdict of the jury. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the Court in overruling the motion for a new trial, and the evidence given on the trial made part of the record. From this judgment Craig appealed to this Court. *2 The only error assigned, is that the Court below erred in refusing to grant a new trial. Before we investigate the questions arising upon the assignment of errors, it is proper we should dispose of an objection taken by the counsel of Miller in argument to the correctness of the decision of that Court on the demurrer to the first plea. For if, as was urged, the writing upon which this suit is founded is assignable, however erroneous may be the judgment against Craig, as he has assigned the writing to Eastland, he could have no right to complain. The suit in that event should have been brought in the name of Eastland, and the judgment against Craig could not prejudice his right to sue. An answer to the objection is however found in the decision of this Court in the case of Bowman v. Froman, ii vol. 233. By that decision it was held that an article of agreement containing mutual covenants, does not come within the provisions of the statute making writings assignable; and whatever doubts may exist as to the correctness of that decision, we are not disposed to depart from its principles. The judgment of the Court on the demurrer to the first plea was therefore correct. We will next examine the correctness of the decision in refusing a new trial. The evidence in the cause clearly proves that Miller, at the time of entering into the agreement with Craig, held the legal title to several parcels of land in Barren county, which he has since conveyed to others, under a parol contract previously made by his agent, in virtue of a parol authority. It is moreover manifest that Eastland as the agent for Craig. refused to receive a deed for the residue of lands held by Miller, alleging he had a right to elect to take the land so conveyed by Miller since their contract. It is likewise in proof that Miller offered to convey according to valuation, lands owned by him in Barren, and not previously conveyed. Whether, therefore, this evidence justifies the verdict of the jury, is the main inquiry. It is clear it does not establish a performance of the covenant on the part of Miller; and whether it proves a tender or readiness to perform, depends on the effect of the covenant. For if Miller was bound to convey to Craig, in case Craig should so elect, the land which he has since conveyed to others, he has thereby rendered himself unable to perform his covenant, and consequently has not supported the pleas of tender or readiness on his part. It is evident that when Miller entered into the covenant with Craig?? he held the legal title to the land he has since conveyed to others, and that by no legal means could he have been compelled to make the conveyance. Miller must, therefore, be considered really and substantially the owner of those lands when he made the agreement with Craig, and his covenant to convey such other of his real estate, etc., should be construed to embrace them, as well as all other of which he was so entitled. As Miller has, therefore, by conveying to others part of the land embraced by his covenant to Craig, disabled himself from complying on his part, it results the evidence does not support the verdict. *3 It was however urged in argument, that as Craig has alleged in his declaration an election of land, to have authorized a verdict in his favor he should have proven it. To this objection it need only to be remarked, that though the declaration make such an allegation, the issues are taken to different facts, not involving such an inquiry. The judgment of the Court must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below and a new trial awarded, and such farther proceedings had as may be consistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Craig v. Miller 3 Bibb 440, 6 Ky. 440, 1814 WL 818 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
