(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 181,  9 Ky. 181 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1203 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Meriwether et al. v. Hite's Heirs. Dec. 2, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 91 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k89 Parties in General 150k91 k. Nature and extent of interest. Most Cited  Cases The heirs and executor of a devisor, who has devised land to other persons, are not necessary parties to a suit for the land under adverse claims. Equity 150 k 418 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k417 Decree Pro Confesso 150k418 k. Requisites and validity. Most Cited  Cases The right of an absent defendant, secured to him by legislative act, need not be reserved to him in the decree. Infants 211 k 1314 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(B) Course of Proceedings 211k1314 k. Reservation to child of day in court. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k109) Infants may be decreed to make a conveyance of land without the interposition of their guardian. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent, Judge Rowan. This is an appeal from a decree pronounced in a contest between adverse claims, compelling the appellants to surrender their title, derived under a grant of elder date than that through which the appellees claim. The appellees, who were complainants in the court below, assert the superior equity under an entry of 1,163 3/4 acres, made in the name of Isaac Hite; and the appellants derive their title under an entry of 200 acres, made in the name of Nicholas Meriwether, and of elder date than that of Hite. These entries, during the present term, underwent the consideration and decision of this court in the case of Potorf, &c. against Hite's heirs, and in a state of preparation not more favorable to the claim of the present appellees than exists in this case, the entry Hite was held to be paramount to that of Meriwether, and upon reviewing the principles of that decision, we entertain no doubt but that in the present case the appellees have shewn themselves entitled to a surrender of the appellant's title. It is objected, however, that the court below, prematurely, without having the proper and necessary parties before it, proceeded to a hearing and final determination of the cause. William Meriwether appears to have purchased and obtained a deed of conveyance from Nicholas Meriwether, before the emanation of his grant, for six hundred acres, part of his claim of 2,000 acres, and the land in contest forms that part only of the land purchased by William, which, by his last will, was thereafter devised to James Meriwether, and the objection to the want of proper parties is taken upon the supposition that the heirs and executor of William Meriwether should have been before the court. The necessity for making them parties is not, however, perceived by this court. If the legal title passed to William Meriwether by the deed from Nicholas, as the whole of the land in contest was thereafter devised to James, it is plain the heir of William can have no interest; or if, in consequence of the patent not having emanated at the date of the deed, the legal title did not pass to William, still, as by his will, all of the interest in relation to the land now in contest, which he acquired under the purchase from Nicholas, must have been transferred to the devisee James, the heir at law can not have gained any thing by dissent. *2 Only those who are interested need be made parties to a suit in chancery; and in a contest for land under adverse claims, an executor, merely as such, need never be a party. The heirs of William Meriwether, therefore, as they have no interest in the land in contest, are not necessary parties. And with respect to the executor, there is still less reason, if possible, for bringing him before the court. As executor merely, he is, in no instance, a necessary party in contests between adverse land claims, and in the present case it is not contended he has any interest in the land in contest. It is also objected that, instead of decreeing the infant defendants to convey in proper person, the court should have decreed the conveyance to be made by the guardian. In a contest for lands, it is not irregular to decree the conveyance to be made by infant defendants without the interposition of their guardian. If we are correct in supposing that the claim of the appellees is paramount to that of the appellants, it follows that a conveyance by the infant appellants, even without suit, would have been binding upon them, and, consequently, it can be no violation of the principles of equity, for the chancellor to compel them to do that which, according to equity, ought to be done, and which they might, without his interposition, have regularly done. It is again objected that the decree is for 20 acres more land than is claimed by the appellees in their bill--the bill asserting claim to a tract of 100 acres only, and the decree is for 120 acres. This objection must have been taken upon a misconception of the allegations of the bill. We understand the bill to assert claim to the whole tract devised by William Meriwether to James, and the 100 acres, mentioned in the bill, is merely a description of the tract. The decree, although for 120 acres, is but for the tract devised. It is also objected, that the decree should have reserved to the absent defendant a right, after his return to the state, to appear and answer the bill. The act, under which the proceedings against the absent defendant was had, contains the reservation contended for, and it can not have been necessary to enable the absent defendant to avail himself of the provisions of the act, for the decree to contain such a reservation. The right which the law secures to an absent defendant need not be saved to him in the decree. It is moreover objected, that day should have been given the infant defendants, after their arrival at full age, to appear and contest the decree. To this objection it need only be remarked, that twelve months is given the infants, after their arrival at full age, to contest the decree. Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the decree of the court below is correct, and must be affirmed with cost. Bibb, for appellants; Hardin, for appellees. Ky.App. 1819. Meriwether v. Hite's Heirs 2 A.K.Marsh. 181, 9 Ky. 181, 1819 WL 1203 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
