(Cite as: 3 Bibb 534,  6 Ky. 534 (Ky.),  1814 WL 861 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Oldham v. Rowan. Dec. 1814. *1 This case was decided on the 22d of November, 1813. Upon a petition for a re-hearing, it was granted, and finally decreed in December, 1814. Although the statute made no positive provision for the assignment of entries on land warrants, yet the assignee would have the equitable right, and might compel the assignor to convey the land, if the grant issued to him. A survey for the assignee of the entry, and a grant to him, is valid. In a suit by the patentee of such assigned entry, to obtain relief against an elder conflicting grant, the assignor of the entry need not be a party. Entry "on Pottinger's creek, beginning at the lower corner of Pottinger's preemption, on the opposite side of the creek from his settlement and running up the same line and out toward the knobs for quantity." The pre-emption of P was surveyed in several parcels, and at different periods of time, previous to the date of the adjoining entry--the lowermost corner of P is the one to be adjoined. The surveys of the pre-emption calling to adjoin the settlement survey, could have been found by reasonable inquiry if the settlement survey wa?? notorious. A station having been erected on that survey and Pottinger himself being resident thereon, the lines of the survey might have been found by reasonable inquiry--Accor. vol. 2, Kennedy v. Bruce, 373--vol. 1, Wilson v. M'Gee. 34-- Green v. Watson, 107--Hardin, Estill v. Hart's heirs, 576 -- M'Millin v. Miller, 494--Moore's heirs v. Green, 32. The survey directed to adjoin the pre-emption surveys, and then at right angles to the general course of the base. Entry on Eaton's creek, a branch of the Rolling Fork of Salt river, beginning about half a mile from the mouth, etc., invalid, because the creek was not notorious by that name. Who ought to be parties to a bill in equity? Persons claiming as heirs, must prove themselves entitled to sue in that capacity, unless the defendants admit it expressly or by implication. Facts not charged to be within the knowledge of the defendants, nor presumed to be so, are not taken for confessed if the answer is silent--Accord. Moore v. Lockett, vol. 2, 69--Cowan v. Price, vol. 1,173; Kennedy's heirs v. Meredith, ante 466. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry contained these words:  "Beginning at the lower corner of A.'s pre-emption."  A.'s pre-emption was surveyed in different parcels and at different times, but all before the date of said entry.  Held, that the lowest corner of A.'s pre-emption was called for. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry on fork of Salt river, "known by the name of 'E. creek,"' is void, from want of proof that the creek was known by the name at the date of the entry. Assignments 38 k 129 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k129 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases The assignor of an entry need not be made a party in a suit by the assignee to obtain a title. Descent and Distribution 124 k 90(4) 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(A) Nature and Establishment of Rights in General 124k88 Actions by Heirs or Distributees 124k90 Relating to Real Property or Interests  Therein 124k90(4) k. Pleading and Evidence. Most Cited  Cases In an action by one as heir, and as assignee of his co-heirs, to recover lands belonging to the estate of a common ancestor against persons claiming under an adverse title, the heirship of the plaintiff must be established by proof, unless it is admitted by defendant. Equity 150 k 94 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k93 Necessary or Indispensable Parties 150k94 k. Persons Indispensable to Complete and  Final Determination. Most Cited Cases On rehearing, it appeared that two femes coverts, through whom complainant claimed, had not made legal conveyances of their title.  Held that, to make the decree final, they should have been parties before the court. Equity 150 k 325 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(H) Issues, Proof, and Variance 150k325 k. Matters to Be Proved. Most Cited  Cases In a suit for land by a person who derives title through certain heirs of a deceased, where it is not charged in the bill that complainant derives title to the land in question through such parties as heirs, and defendants in their answer neither expressly nor by implication admit the heirship of such person the fact must be established by proof. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *2 THIS is a contest between adverse conflicting land titles. The appellee derives title through William Rowan, deceased. He claims a part of the land as one of the heirs of the decedent, and the balance as a purchase from the other heirs. William Rowan, deceased, held the title by a patent obtained from the Commonwealth upon a survey executed in his own name, in virtue of an assigned treasury warrant entry made in the name of Abednego Carter. Before we investigate the validity of the entry under which the appellee claims, it will be proper to notice the objections made in argument to the appellee's right as heir, and to the validity of the survey and patent under which he deduces his title, and as to the propriety of a decree being made without other parties being before the Court. It is first objected that the appellee has not proved that those from whom he purchased and himself are the legal heirs of William Rowan, deceased. Had the right as heirs been denied by the answer of the defendants in the Court below, it is clear that without proof to that point, no decree could have been regularly made in favor of the appellee. But it seems the defendants in that Court did not intend to question the right of the appellee as heir. All of the defendants but Oldham, by their answer impliedly admit the right as heir, but deny the appellee has procured from the other heirs a regular transfer of their right; and Oldham, by his answer does not deny the fact, nor is it believed he intended to put it in issue. Under such a state of pleadings in a contest in chancery, where the validity of the entry, survey and patent are expressly traversed, we cannot suppose the decree of the Court below should be reversed because the complainant in that Court may not have proven he and those from whom he purchased are the legal heirs. It is secondly objected that the entry under which the appellee derives title was not assignable, and hence it is inferred that the survey and patent in the name of the assignee, William Rowan, dec'd, are void. Were it admitted that the entry was not at law assignable, the conclusion from thence deduced in argument would not, we apprehend necessarily follow. It is true the act of 1779 contains no provision making entries assignable; but warrants and plats and certificates of surveys were made assignable, and the act contains no inhibition against sales by the holders of entries. A sale and assignment of an entry, therefore, though it may not transfer a legal title, would clearly vest an equitable right in the assignee. In such a case, were the survey made and patent obtained in the name of the seller of the entry, by a Court of Equity he would be compelled to convey the legal title. If then in a case thus circumstanced equity would compel the assignor to convey, the question occurs, will a survey made and patent obtained in the name of the assignee, who is equitably entitled to the land and in whose favor a conveyance would be decreed if the title had been procured in the name of another, be deemed void? We apprehend it should not. Why, it may be asked, should it be avoided? There is no statutory provision declaring a survey and patent thus obtained void. Who can have sustained any injury from it? Surely the assignor has not: for he has at least in equity, previously disposed of his interest in the entry. The Commonwealth has not, because she has previously disposed of the land to the assignor. And it is evident the adverse claimant can sustain no injury, for no land is claimed by this suit which is not contained in the entry. Hence we conclude that the survey and patent are not void. *3 This leads us to the inquiry, whether Carter, in whose name the entry was made, should have been made a party to this cause? It is contended that from analogy to those cases where it has been held the assignor of an equity should be a party in a suit by the assignee to obtain a title, the assignor of the entry should in this case have been before the Court. It is conceived, however, this case cannot be brought within the application of the rule which governs those cases: for although the appellee has brought his suit in chancery, the right in contest is as well legal as equitable. The legal title is clearly in the appellee, and whether he holds it in trust for any other person, cannot we conceive be material in this contest. A sale and transfer by the appellee would vest the title in the purchaser, and we apprehend a decision against him on the merits of his claim would be conclusive against any person holding an interest in trust. We are of opinion, therefore, the appellee has shown a sufficient right under a valid patent, to maintain a suit in his own name, without making the assignor of the entry a party. We will next inquire into the validity of the entry under which the appellee claims. It is as follows: "April the 8th, 1784--Abednego Carter, assignee of Elias Barbee, enters 1100 acres upon a treasury warrant, No. 14561, on Pottinger's creek, beginning at the lower corner of Pottinger's pre-emption, on the opposite side of the creek from his settlement, and running up the same line and out toward the knobs for quantity." Previous to the date of this entry, Pottinger had obtained from the Court of Commissioners a certificate for a settlement and pre-emption of 1400 acres, and located the same on Pottinger's creek. But as the objects called for in the entries of Pottinger are not sufficiently identified by the proof in the cause, and as the surveys made thereon were executed before the date of the appellee's entry, an inquiry into Pottinger's entries becomes unnecessary to a decision of this cause. The pre-emption of Pottinger was surveyed in three surveys, the first bears date the 11th December, 1782, the second the 12th December, 1782, and the third the 11th December, 1783. Pottinger's creek is delineated on the connected plat as running nearly a west course. The settlement survey of Pottinger is made mostly on the north side of Pottinger's creek. The survey of Pottinger made on the 11th of December, 1782, on his pre-emption, adjoins the settlement on the north. The survey made the 12th December, 1782, adjoins the southeast corner of the settlement, extending south and eastwardly for the quantity, and presenting a corner on the opposite side of the creek to the southeast corner of the settlement survey. And the survey made on the 11th December 1783, adjoins the settlement survey on the south nearly the whole length of the south boundary, and extending across the creek for the quantity, presenting a corner, the lowermost on the creek and opposite to the settlement. Which of these surveys, therefore, the entry of the appellee should be made to adjoin, is the first point for consideration. *4 It was contended in argument the entry should begin at the southeast corner of the survey made the 12th of December, 1782, because it is urged that survey presents a corner equally fitting the call in the entry, and from the length of time it had been made was better calculated to have attracted notice than the survey made in 1783. We are of opinion, however, the call in the entry to begin at the lower corner of Pottinger's pre-emption, more properly applies, and should be construed to adjoin the latter of those surveys. The whole of those surveys constitute Pottinger's pre-emption. They were all made before the date of the appellee's entry, and though the survey presenting the lowermost corner opposite the settlement was last made, they were all of record, equally demanding notice at that period. As, therefore, the appellee's entry calls to adjoin Pottinger's pre-emption survey, the question occurs, did that survey at the date of the entry possess the requisite description or notoriety to give validity to the entry? If the notoriety of Pottinger's settlement survey is sufficiently established, it is clear the description contained in the pre-emption certificates of surveys would lead with absolute precision and certainty to the beginning: for each of those surveys calls to adjoin the settlement corners, from which no difficulty could arise in ascertaining the beginning. Although no witness whose deposition has been taken in this cause speaks expressly of the boundary of the settlement survey having been notorious when the entry was made, from the facts proven we have no doubt but such notoriety should be inferred. The circumstances that Pottinger's creek had acquired that name long before the entry was made; that Pottinger settled upon the land in the winter of 1778, and has resided thereon ever since; that Pottinger's station was made thereon in 1781, and has been generally known ever since, demonstrate conclusively that a subsequent locator, by the exercise of reasonable diligence, might with certainty have found the lines of the settlement survey at the date of the entry; and when found, no difficulty could have occurred in finding the beginning. We are therefore of opinion the appellee's is a valid entry, and should be surveyed by beginning at the southwest corner of the 200 acre pre-emption survey, extending thence up the creek with the line of that survey and the survey of 400 acres adjoining thereto, so far as that lines at right angles (southwardly) to the general course of the base, will include the quantity. By this mode of surveying, all the land in contest will be included in the appellee's claim. Unless, therefore, the appellants can show a right under a valid entry of elder date, they cannot succeed. They claim under the following entry: "May 29, 1780--Samuel Oldham enters 4000 acres upon treasury warrants on a creek emptying in on the north side of the Rolling Fork of Salt river, known by the name of Eaton's creek, beginning about half a mile from the mouth of said creek, and running up both sides for quantity." *5 On this branch of the cause, it need only be observed, that the evidence does not sufficiently prove the creek upon which the survey has been made was at the date of the entry called Eaton's creek. The entry therefore cannot be maintained. Decree affirmed. Opinion of the Court, on a rehearing, by Judge OWSLEY. On the petition of the appellants, a rehearing was ordered in this cause; and the arguments on a rehearing directed to the inquiries, 1. Whether the proper parties were before the Court? And, 2. Whether proof should have been made by the complainant in the Court below, that himself and those through whom he derives title to the land in question are the heirs of William Rowan, deceased? By a current of decisions it is settled that all those interested in the subject matter in contest should be before the Court, either as complainants or defendants, before a decree is made on the merits. And on a farther examination of the record, it is discovered that Mrs. Kelly and Douglass (femes covert) through whom the complainant in the Court below deduced part of his title, have not by a legal conveyance transferred their interest in the land. And it is moreover manifest that without such a transfer, in a suit in chancery involving the validity of the claim of their ancestor William Rowan, they are necessary parties. And hence it follows, as they have not by legal deeds transferred their right, to make the decree in this cause final as to all those interested, they should have been parties before the Court. As all the necessary parties were not before the Court, the decree for that cause must therefore be reversed. As to the other point urged in argument on the rehearing, though not necessary to be considered in the decision of this appeal, yet as the cause must be remanded for farther proceedings, and the same question may again occur, we have thought proper to remark, that to authorize a decree on the merits against such of the defendants as have neither expressly nor by implication in their answers admitted the heirship of those through whom the complainant derives his title to the land it should be established by proof: for as the fact is not so charged in the bill, nor can it be presumed from the circumstances of the case to be within the knowledge of the defendants, though they have not denied it in their answers, yet according to the better settled rules of chancery practice, to authorize a decree the facts must be proved. The decree of the Court below must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below and the complainant have leave to amend his bill by making Mrs. Kelly and Douglass and their husbands parties, and such other proceedings there had as may be necessary to a final determination of the cause, not inconsistent with the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Oldham v. Rowan 3 Bibb 534, 6 Ky. 534, 1814 WL 861 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
