(Cite as: 3 Bibb 251,  6 Ky. 251 (Ky.),  1813 WL 676 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Brents v. Barnett. Dec. 14, 1813. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 736 30 Appeal and Error 30XI Assignment of Errors 30k735 Including Errors in One Assignment 30k736 k. In General. Most Cited Cases Error in fact and error in law cannot be joined in one assignment. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a judgment awarded against the plaintiff in this Court in a writ of error coram vobis brought by him in the Green Circuit Court. The errors assigned in the writ of error coram vobis, are both errors in fact and law: and it is clear, had the defendant demurred for the duplicity, the judgment sought to be avoided in the Court below should have been affirmed--See 2 Saun. 101. If plaintiff in error coram vobis, assign errors in fact and in law, defendant may demur for duplicity. But if he does not, and the Court award judgment against the plaintiff, that judgment will be affirmed on account of the duplicity. On affirmance damages given only upon the damages in the Court below. But it is contended the defendant having failed to demur or plead in the Court below, that Court should not have disposed of the cause under such circumstances. It would certainly have been more regular for the pleadings to have been properly prepared in that Court before any judgment was given; but as the judgment is against the plaintiff, and it is apparent, because of his having assigned errors in fact and law, on a proper state of pleading judgment should have been given against him. The judgment should not be reversed for the purpose of remanding the cause, for pleadings which must ultimately produce a judgment similar to that sought to be reversed. It is again contended that the judgment of the Court below, is neither an affirmance of the judgment to avoid which the writ of error coram vobis was prosecuted, nor a dismission of the writ; hence it is urged ten per cent. damages should not have been adjudged against the plaintiff in that Court. The writ of error coram vobis was brought to avoid executions and a bond taken by the sheriff for the sale of land at three months' credit. The bond by operation of law has the force of a judgment, and as we have before shown, had a demurrer been filed by the defendant, for the duplicity in the assignment of errors, that judgment should have been affirmed. And although the judgment in this case is not entered in the most technical and formal manner, in substance it is an affirmance And according to the case of Lansdale and Findley, decided by this Court (Hardin 152), the Court below decided correctly in giving judgment for ten per cent. damages. The errors in the proceedings for which the writ of error was brought in the Court below, cannot be noticed in this Court, because the proceedings on the part of the plaintiff are so irregular as not to justify a judgment in his favor, did any errors exist. The judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed with costs and damages upon the damages awarded in that Court. Ky.App. 1813. Brents v. Barnett 3 Bibb 251, 6 Ky. 251, 1813 WL 676 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
