(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 1,  8 Ky. 1 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1121 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Heirs of Bartlett Searcy v. Dennis Reardon. May 28, 1816. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 288 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k288 k. Liabilities of Purchasers. Most Cited  Cases A judgment having been obtained against an executor and heirs upon a pretended debt of the testator, the land was sold to satisfy the execution, and purchased by the pretended creditor. The heirs brought suit to recover the land so purchased. Held that, upon a decree setting aside the sale, the court might order an account of the rents and profits and improvements to be taken. Assignments 38 k 100 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k99 Equities and Defenses Between Original Parties 38k100 k. In General. Most Cited Cases A claim obtained by fraud will not convey a right to a mere volunteer assignee; he is subject to the equity which existed against his assignor. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Reardon having obtained the title to a tract of land, sold and conveyed by a sheriff under a fieri facias, which issued upon a judgment rendered in his favour against the heirs and executor of Searcy; the heirs brought their bill in equity for the purpose of setting aside the sale and conveyance, and to be restored to their land: they allege their ancestor dies possessed of the tract of land in question, together with some personal estate; that their mother, as his executrix, took upon herself the administration of the estate, and thereafter intermarried with Joseph Reardon, since deceased; that Joseph Reardon made a sham settlement, by which, as executor of the estate of said Searcy, he acknowledged a debt due Dennis Reardon, the appellee, for about l75; that Dennis Reardon brought suit therefor, against the executor and heirs of Searcy, and without having a guardian appointed to defend for the heirs, fraudulently prevented any defence being made for them, and after obtaining judgment by default, had the land in question sold under a fieri facias, and became himself the purchaser. Dennis Reardon, by his answer, admits the purchase from the sheriff, but alleges that Joseph Reardon, as executor of the estate of Searcy, having, after a settlement with the county court, a claim of about seventy-five pounds against the estate, for a valuable consideration sold it to him, and that he prosecuted suit thereon, and without fraud obtained the judgment, in virtue of which the sale was made. Upon a hearing of the cause, the court below dismissed the bill with cost, and from that decree the heirs of Searcy have appealed to this court. We are of opinion the decree of the court below can not be sustained: For, although the evidence may not, perhaps, be sufficient to fix a fraud upon Dennis Reardon in the management of the suit against the heirs, it is abundant to shew that there was nothing due from the estate to Joseph Reardon, and that the claim transferred by him to Dennis, although sanctioned by the settlement with the county court, had no just foundation, but was produced by the fraudulent conduct of Joseph. In a contest with Joseph Reardon, therefore, had the judgment been obtained in his name, and the purchase made by him, there could be no question but that the heirs of Searcy would be entitled to relief; and as Dennis Reardon is shown to be the assignee of Joseph, whatever might be his situation, were he proven to be the purchaser of Joseph's claim for a valuable consideration without notice, it is perfectly clear, that as a mere volunteer, he must occupy the same ground and be subject to the same equity which exists against the claim of Joseph. *2 A ??ere volunteer assignee will not be favored as a purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice; he stands in the attitude of his assignor, and affected by his fraud. That he is a volunteer under the circumstances of this cause, we are bound to infer. He does, it is true, allege the purchase of Joseph's claim for a valuable consideration, but so far from supporting that allegation, the evidence rather conduces to establish a different result. On setting aside a sheriff's sale of lands and ordering possession to be restored, the purchaser should account for rents from the time he took possession, to be reduced from improvements. The court below should, therefore, have granted to the heirs relief:-- Therefore, it is decreed and ordered, that the decree aforesaid be reversed and set aside, the cause remanded to that court and a decree there entered, compelling Dennis Reardon to convey the land to the heirs of Searcy, by a deed with a clause of warranty against him and all persons claiming through him, and that after causing an account of the rents, profits and improvements to be taken, make such order and decree as may be necessary to compel the said Dennis to pay the amount, if any, which he may be found in arrears to the heirs. In taking the amount, the rent should commence from the time Dennis Reardon obtained the possession. The appellants must recover their cost in this court. A petition for a rehearing having been filed, the cause was reargued, and the foregoing decree was, at the fall term, 1817, ordered to stand unaltered and affirmed. Wickliffe, for appellants, Hardin, for appellee. Ky.App. 1816. Searcy's Heirs v. Reardon 1 A.K.Marsh. 1, 8 Ky. 1, 1817 WL 1121 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
