(Cite as: 7 T.B.Mon. 394,  23 Ky. 394 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1279 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Trimble v. Spiller. Jun. 18, 1828. *1 Damages. Husband and Wife. ERROR TO THE CLARKE CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Assault and Battery 37 k 38 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(B) Actions 37k36 Damages 37k38 k. Elements of Compensation. Most Cited  Cases In an action for an assault and battery committed on plaintiff's daughter under circumstances highly aggravating, the jury may, in estimating the damages, consider the injury to the feelings of the parents and the character of the family, occasioned by the assault and battery. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Spiller sued Trimble and wife, and declared against them for trespass, assault and battery, committed by Mrs. Trimble upon the daughter of Spiller, by which he sustained great loss of service, &c. At the trial in the circuit court, after the battery as charged in the declaration was proved, under circumstances highly aggravated and injurious to the feelings of Spiller, and derogatory to the character of his family, Trimble moved the court to instruct the jury, that in their estimate of damages they could not regard the disgrace of Spiller or his family which resulted from the battery. But this motion was overruled, and the jury were instructed, that, in estimating the damages, they had a right to consider the injury to the feelings of the parents, and the character of the family, occasioned by the assault and battery proved. Evidence. Instructions. The question for the determination of this court is, was the circuit court correct, both in refusing, and in giving the instructions? In our researches upon the subject, we have met with no reported case in which such a question, in an action like the present, has ever undergone a direct adjudication. But cases are to be found, in which questions turning upon analogous principles, have been decided, and which are understood to sustain the decision of the circuit court. The legal foundation of the action is the same, whether it be brought by a parent for the seduction, or battery, of his daughter. If there be a loss to the parent of the service of his child, he has an unquestionable right to maintain the action in either case, and in neither case is he allowed to recover without proof of the loss of service, or what, by construction of law, is equivalent thereto. The loss of service is not, however, admitted to form the sole and exclusive consideration for the jury, in estimating damages, in either case. There is no principle that can limit the jury, in their estimate of damages, to the amount of damages from loss of service, occasioned by a battery on the child, that would not equally apply to the estimate of damages occasioned by the seduction of the daughter; and the rule is well settled, that, in an action by a parent for the seduction of his child, the jury are not confined in their estimate of damages to the mere amount of the damage from loss of service, and the expense consequent upon the seduction, but may award compensation for the dishonor and disgrace cast upon the plaintiff and his family by such an injury. 3 Starkie's Evi. 1308. *2 In the husband's action for the battery of his wife, the damages are not limited to the amount of her services lost, but may be assessed for the injury to the feelings of the parties and character of the family, as in case of the seduction of a daughter. Hence we infer that there is no error, either in refusing, or giving, the instructions to the jury. The judgment is consequently affirmed, with cost and damages. J. Speed Smith, for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1828. Trimble v. Spiller 7 T.B.Mon. 394, 23 Ky. 394, 1828 WL 1279 (Ky.), 18 Am.Dec. 189 END OF DOCUMENT
