(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 335,  19 Ky. 335 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1307 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Knight v. Applegate's Heirs. Oct. 19, 1826. *1 Judgments. Credits. Executions. Amendments. Sheriff's Sales. ERROR TO THE MASON CIRCUIT; WILLIAM P. ROPER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 226 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k226 k. Conduct of Sale in General. Most Cited  Cases One sale may be made of land to satisfy several executions. Execution 161 k 226 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k226 k. Conduct of Sale in General. Most Cited  Cases To sustain a sale of land under several executions, judgments to cover the amount of the sales must be produced. Execution 161 k 248 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(B) Opening or Vacating 161k248 k. Defects or Irregularities in Execution or Levy.  Most Cited Cases If a clerk omitted to notice in a fi. fa. a credit for about half the judgment entered at its foot, though the sale of the land raising the entire sum would not pass title, yet if the sale was made by other judgments and executions also, and the proceeds of the land were covered by them after deducting the credit, the sale is valid. Execution 161 k 253(1) 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(B) Opening or Vacating 161k253 Application and Proceedings Thereon 161k253(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where the sale of land is made by virtue of several executions, the defendant, in his motion to quash, must make all who are interested parties. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. In an action of debt, brought by Knight against the heirs of Abraham Applegate, deceased, there was rendered by the circuit court of Mason, a judgment, "that Knight recover against James T. Applegate and Judith Applegate, heirs of Abraham Applegate, deceased, the sum of one hundred dollars, the debt in the specialty filed, with interest thereon, at the rate of six per centum per annum, from the 16th day of March, 1820, until paid, together with his damages aforesaid, in manner and form by the jury aforesaid in their verdict assessed, and also his cost by him about his suit in this behalf expended, to be levied on the estate which descended to the said Judith Applegate and James T. Applegate, heirs of Abraham Applegate, deceased, and the said James and Judith Applegate in mercy, &c." Judgment in favor of Knight vs. Applegate's heirs. "But this judgment is to have credit for forty-two dollars and twenty-five cents, paid the 19th of December, 1819, per endorsement on said specialty." Credit on the judgment. The damages alluded to in the judgment, are one cent, which was assessed by the jury, empanneled for that purpose. *2 Subsequent to this judgment, there issued from the clerk's office of the Mason court, an execution against the estate which descended from Abraham Applegate to James T. Applegate and Judith Applegate, his heirs, commanding the sheriff of Mason county, to cause to be made, the sum of one hundred dollars, with interest thereon, at the rate of six per centum per annum, from the 16th of March, 1820, until paid, and one cent damages, which the execution suggests, Woodson Knight recovered in the Mason circuit court against them, for debt, interest and damages; also, ten dollars and sixty-nine cents, which to the said Knight was adjudged by the said court, for his cost, &c. But neither in the face of the execution nor by endorsement thereon, is any notice taken of the forty-two dollars and twenty-five cents, which is directed by the judgment to be credited. Execution of fi. fa. omitting the credit. This execution was returned by the sheriff, executed on a tract of land containing sixty-seven acres two roods and twenty poles, being the balance of the land after deducting the widow's dower, of which Abraham Applegate died seized, and not sold for want of time. Sheriff's return executed on a tract of land, &c. After this, there issued from the clerk's office of the same court, a venditioni exponas, commanding the sheriff to expose to sale, the land which had been seized by him under the execution, to which reference has been already made, &c. and the sheriff made return thereon, that "by virtue of this writ I sold the within mentioned land, on the 23d of March, 1822, to Vincent Applegate, who being the highest bidder, became the purchaser, at the price of five hundred and forty-one dollars, of which sum, one hundred and twenty-nine dollars, eighty-one and one-fourth cents, is applied to this execution, it being the full amount due thereon--See sale bond returned herewith." Venditioni exponas, sale on credit, and sheriff's return. The sale bond which was executed by Vincent Applegate, recites the proceedings of the sheriff, and accords in amount with the sheriff's return. Subsequent to this, the heirs of Abraham Applegate notified Woodson Knight, the plaintiff in the execution, that on a named day, he would move the circuit court of Mason to quash the execution and the sale bond, which the sheriff had taken from Vincent Applegate. Notice of motion. When the motion came on to be heard, Vincent Applegate appeared in court, waived the necessity of notice, and consented to a trial of the motion, as though he had been regularly served with notice. Objection to notice waived. The trial of the motion accordingly proceeds, and the court rendered judgment quashing the execution and sale bond. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the court, and the evidence produced on the trial, made part of the record. It can not be doubted, but that the execution under which the land was seized by the sheriff, did not strictly pursue the judgment which was recovered by Woodson Knight, against the heirs of Abraham Applegate. In commanding the sheriff, of the estate of the decedent Applegate, to his heirs descended, to make the plaintiff Knight's demand, there is a perfect conformity between the execution and judgment, but in the amount which, by the execution, the sheriff was directed to make, there is an essential departure from the judgment. The departure consists in the execution omitting to notice the forty-two dollars and twenty-five cents, which in the judgment, was directed to form a credit to the one hundred dollars in a previous part of the judgment, adjudged against the heirs of Applegate. The directions in relation to that credit, form a component part of the judgment of the court, and must be understood to have the effect of diminishing the judgment from what it would be, otherwise considered, a sum equal to the amount of the credit, and of course, in strict propriety, should have been noticed by the clerk in issuing the execution. *3 Trial and judgment of the circuit court quashing the execution and sale. Credit on a judgment, entered at its foot, forms a part of the judgment, and ought to be noticed by the clerk, in the execution-- But-- But in the opinion of the court, the failure of the clerk to notice that credit, is not that sort of irregularity for which the execution should be quashed. It was clearly nothing more than a clerical misprison, and upon well settled principles, might be corrected by an amendment of the execution. It would be otherwise, if the departure from the judgment was calculated to render it uncertain whether or not the execution issued upon that judgment, but it is impossible for the most superficial observer, to compare the execution with the judgment and hesitate for a moment to pronounce the former to have issued the latter. Omission of a credit entered at the foot of a judgment in issuing an execution, is no ground for quashing it. It was therefore, erroneous to quash the execution. If the clerk omit to notice in the fi. fa. the credit for about half the judgment entered at its foot, and the sheriff raise the entire sum by a sale of land, the title of the land will not pass. But it does not thence follow that the sale bond should be sustained. To uphold a sale of land, made under execution by an officer, it is not enough that the execution purports upon its face to be regular, and appears to have emanated from competent authority; there must also be a judgment to which the sale money is to be applied. The reason is obvious. Lands are made subject to sale under writs of fieri facias by statutory enactment, and as it is only in satisfaction of judgments, that the statute has authorized the sale, there must, of course, be a judgment, to which the proceeds of the sale may be applied, to make the sale a valid one. It would, therefore, judging from the facts proved on the trial of the motion, seem to follow that the sale bond can not be sustained. For the land appears to have been sold, and the bond taken for a sum equal to that mentioned in the execution which issued in favor of Knight, against the estate of Applegate, and as the judgment in favor of Knight, is in fact, for less than the execution, there is no judgment to which the excess contained in the execution, and included in the bond, can be applied. But there appears from the record, to have been at the time the land was sold, in the hands of the sheriff, several other executions against the estate of Applegate, under all of which, together with that in favor of Knight, the sheriff appears to have acted in making the sale, and on the trial of the motion in the court below, an attempt was made to sustain the bond, by drawing in aid of the sale of the land, those other executions. If, however, in such case, the sale was made by other judgments and executions also, and the proceeds of the land were covered by them after deducting the credit, the sale is valid. *4 The amount for which the land sold, fell greatly below the aggregate amount of the several executions held by the sheriff, and although, in consequence of the judgment in favor of Knight being for less than the execution which issued in his favor, the sheriff may not have derived under that judgment and execution, competent authority to sell for the entire amount of the execution, it was contended, that under the other executions, in conjunction with that of Knight, a sufficient authority was conferred upon the sheriff to make the sale, the proceeds thereof, being insufficient to pay the amount of the executions, after deducting the excess contained in Knight's execution. This argument is certainly entitled to great weight, and would be conclusive in support of the sheriff's authority, if there had been introduced in evidence, judgments to uphold those other executions. It would not be so, were it incompetent for the sheriff to act under all of the executions at the same time; but as they were all against the estate of the same persons, no solid reason is perceived, why the sheriff should not, at the same time, sell the estate to satisfy the whole. It is believed to have been the general practice for sheriffs to do so, ever since lands were subjected to sale under executions, and the quiet and repose of estates held under such sales, requires that the practice should not be disturbed. One sale may be made of land, to satisfy several executions. But there is contained in the record, no judgment upon which either of those other executions issued, so that were the proper parties before the court on the trial of the motion, we should be constrained to decide against the validity of the sale, and of course, quash the bond. To sustain a sale of land under several executions, judgments to cover the amount of the sales, must be produced. We think, however, that the proper parties were not before the court. The plaintiffs in those other executions, should, we apprehend, have had notice of the motion. The sale being made to satisfy their executions, as well as that of Knight, if in applying the proceeds of the sale, the sheriff has taken a bond to Knight for too much, it is a prejudice to them, and they should have an opportunity of being heard, in any contest involving that matter. Where the sale of land is made by virtue of several executions, the defendant, in his motion to quash, must make all interested parties. The judgment of the court quashing the bond, as well as that quashing the execution, must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and in consequence of the lack of proper parties, the motion dismissed with cost. Mandate. Bibb, for plaintiff; Depew, for defendants. Ky.App. 1826. Knight v. Applegate's Heirs 3 T.B.Mon. 335, 19 Ky. 335, 1826 WL 1307 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
