(Cite as: 4 Bibb 205,  7 Ky. 205 (Ky.),  1815 WL 724 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Durret v. Kentons. Oct. 14, 1815. *1 S conveyed to J land in trust to pay his debts particularly enumerated, reserving also to himself liberty to direct the payment of any other debts. One of the tracts is sold and conveyed by S and J to D, for $3000 with liberty to pay in good cash bonds in three years. This debt was assigned also by S to J in trust as before. Resolved, that cash bonds executed and due by S and assigned to D, are good tenders in discharge of his obligation; and ordered by the chancellor to be set off against the judgment at law. A fee bill issued against D, S, and J, not allowed to be set off in equity, not appearing to be connected with the transaction. West Headnotes Payment 294 k 25 294 Payment 294I Requisites and Sufficiency 294k25 k. Payment by Entry of Debits or Credits, or by Application  of Deposits or Funds. Most Cited Cases A. conveyed to B. land in trust to pay his debts mentioned in the deed, reserving the power to direct the payment of other debts.  C. bought a part of said land, and gave a bond for the purchase money with liberty to pay the same in good cash bonds.  B. assented to the sale to C., and also took an assignment of the purchase-money bond.  C. obtained from A.'s creditors named in the deed of trust two cash bonds owing by A. at the date of the deed of trust and tendered them to B. Held, that this was a good tender in discharge of C.'s obligation. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. SIMON KENTON conveyed to John Kenton various tracts of land and other property, in trust to pay debts owing by Simon to different persons named in the trust; but reserving, however, the right to Simon at any time thereafter to direct John to pay any other debt which he was then owing. After this Simon sold one of the tracts of land named in the trust, to Durret, received part of the pay therefor, and took Durret's bond to pay $3000, the balance of the price, within four years from its date, unless Durret should choose to pay the same in good cash bonds or notes assigned by him within three years. This bond was afterward assigned by Simon to John, as his trustee, for the use of Simon, and to answer debts which John was to pay for him; and Simon and John both joined in a deed of conveyance with general warranty to Durret, for the tract of land sold by Simon to him. Before three years had elapsed from the date of the bond from Durret to Kenton, Durret obtained from the creditors of Simon two cash bonds owing by Simon at the date of the deed of trust, one of which had been given to Stephen Treacle, and the other to Christopher Man, and made a tender thereof to John Kenton, in satisfaction of his obligation. John refused to receive the bonds in satisfaction, and brought suit against Durret and obtained a judgment at law. In the meantime part of the land sold to Durret was lost by an adverse paramount claim; and Durret, to obtain a credit in consequence thereof, and also to obtain a credit for the two bonds on Simon Kenton, with other alleged grounds of equity, exhibited his bill to be relieved against the judgment at law; but as all the matters of dispute have been adjusted by the parties, except that which respects Durret's right to a credit for the two bonds, our inquiries will be confined principally to that subject. *2 With respect to the bond given by Simon Kenton to Treacle, we can perceive no possible reason why Durret should not have a credit, for it is expressly named in the deed of trust from Simon to John as one of the debts which were to be discharged, and the record affords no proof whatever of its having been in anywise paid. The bond given to Man also bears date prior to the deed of trust, and appears still to be an existing debt; and whether it is considered with respect to the stipulations of the bond given by Durret to Kenton, or in relation to the effect of the deed of trust, in either point of view Durret should be allowed a credit. Simon Kenton, by assigning the bond to John, could not affect Durret's right to discharge it in cash bonds; and as the bond given to Man is one of that character, John should have given him a credit for it. The circumstance of the tract of land having been included in the deed of trust, and the bond of Durret having also been assigned to John in trust to pay the debts of Simon, cannot affect the case: for as by the terms of the trust Simon reserved to himself the right of controlling the trust by directing John to pay other debts, it might be a question whether under such circumstances it could in any possible case affect the right of any of Simon's creditors; but more especially under the circumstances of this case, where Simon by the assent of John has sold the land to Durret, and taken his obligation to pay, a compliance by Durret with the stipulation of his bond is all that can be required. With respect to a credit claimed by Durret for a feebill which issued from the clerk of the Federal District Court against him, Simon and John Kenton, and which has been paid by Durret, it need only be remarked, that as it appears to have no connection with the main subject of contest, and as Durret has ample remedy therefor in the ordinary mode of action, we suppose the Circuit Court properly refused to allow a credit in consequence thereof. Decree reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for a decree to be entered according to the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Durret v. Kentons 4 Bibb 205, 7 Ky. 205, 1815 WL 724 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
