(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 278,  8 Ky. 278 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1358 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Spurr et al. v. Trimble et al. Jun. 7, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE BOURBON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Principal and Agent 308 k 10(2) 308 Principal and Agent 308I The Relation 308I(A) Creation and Existence 308k7 Appointment of Agent 308k10 Letters or Powers of Attorney Under  Seal 308k10(2) k. Acknowledgment and Record. Most Cited  Cases A power of attorney need not be recorded in order to pass title under the deed, but, if not recorded, should be proved, if objected to. If not objected to, it must be presumed to have been proved, or the objection is waived. Principal and Agent 308 k 117(1) 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(A) Powers of Agent 308k117 Necessity of Writing or Seal to Confer  Power 308k117(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A power of attorney to make a deed must be under seal. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry was "on the waters of L. creek, beginning at the Rocky Ford, to extend along the salt spring trace towards Stoner's Fork, thence eastwardly, thence southwardly, for quantity."  The Rocky Ford having been proved as notorious at the date of the entry, and there existing a perfect aptitude between the objects called for and those exhibited, the entry was held good. Death 117 k 2(1) 117 Death 117I Evidence of Death 117k2 Presumption as to Death from Absence 117k2(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Though, under Act Jan., 1793, persons absenting themselves for seven years successively are to be presumed dead, a person will not be presumed to be dead where he is not proved to have been absent from the country of his residence for that space of time. Evidence 157 k 343(1) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k343 Records of Conveyances and Other Private  Writings 157k343(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A copy of a power of attorney certified by a notary public to have been recorded in his office is not evidence, as he is not required by law to record powers of attorney attested by him. Evidence 157 k 343(7) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k343 Records of Conveyances and Other Private  Writings 157k343(7) k. Instruments Not Required or Authorized to  Be Recorded. Most Cited Cases To render a certified copy of the record of an instrument admissible in evidence, the registry of the original must have been authorized. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 This is an appeal from a decree rendered in favor of the appellees, compelling the appellants to surrender their elder title, derived under an adverse claim. The appellees, who were complainants in the court below, asserted their superior equity under the following entry:-- "17th December, 1782. John Holder and Mathew Walton enter 2,138 acres of land on two treasury warrants, &c. on the waters of Licking creek, beginning at the rocky ford, and to extend along the salt spring trace towards Stoner's fork, thence eastwardly, thence southwardly for quantity." This entry was surveyed and carried into grant in the name of Holder and Walker; but as the appellees are thrown upon the proof of their right, it becomes proper, before we notice the validity of the entry, to enquire into their deduction of title. There is no room to doubt, but that the appellees, Holder, Trimble, Bledsoe and Combs, have shewn themselves invested with Holder's interest. For, although a deed, purporting to convey to Gilbert Imlay their claim, is exhibited in the record, yet as Greenup, by whom it was executed for Holder, is not proven to have been authorized by him to convey, the title must be supposed to have continued in Holder; and, as upon his decease it descended upon his heirs, under the laws of this country it became liable to sale for the payment of their debts. Holder, Trimble, Bledsoe and Combs, therefore, as they have shewn regular conveyances from Grisgby, who is proven to have purchased and obtained a regular conveyance from the sheriff, by whom the land was sold under a fieri facias, to satisfy a decree against the heirs, they must have become clothed with the title of Holder's moiety of the land. The deed, however, although not sufficient to pass the title from Holder, as it appears to have been executed by the other patentee, it no doubt conveyed to Imlay the title of Walton. It must be through Imlay, therefore, that Hardwick, the other appellee, if he has any right, should deduce his title; and for that purpose he has exhibited a deed purporting to have been given to him in 1811 by Sebastian, as the agent of Imlay. But it is contended that the deed is insufficient to pass the title to Hardwick; 1st. Because the title had been previously conveyed to Henry Banks, under a power also given by Imlay to Henry Lee; and 2d. Because, in consequence of Imlay having absented himself for more than seven years after giving the power to Sebastian, he should be presumed dead when the deed to Hardwick was made by Sebastian; and 3dly. Because the power of attorney to Sebastian was not recorded in the proper office appointed for recording such instruments. With respect to the first objection, it need only be remarked, that no legitimate evidence was produced to prove a power of attorney to have been given by Imlay to Lee. A copy taken from the records of the clerk's office of this court, and purporting to be a copy of a copy of a power of attorney, certified by a notary public in the state of Virginia, to have been recorded in his office, was, it is true, introduced; but as by the laws of this state, a notary public is not required to record the powers attested by him, if liable to no other objection, the court below properly rejected the copy. *3 As a notary public is not required by law to record a power of attorney attested by him, a copy of such power certified by him is not evidence. And as to the second objection, although, under the act of January, 1798,  (2 Littell, 28), persons absenting themselves, beyond sea or elsewhere, for seven years successively, are to be presumed dead; yet as Imlay has not been proven to have so absented himself from the country of his residence, his death ought not, in the present contest, to be presumed. To justify the presumption of death from seven years absence, that absence must be from the country of the absentee's residence. As a deed under seal passes a title, though not recorded, so a p. of attorney to make a deed, must be under seal, but need not be recorded. If then the power of Sebastian was not revoked, Hardwick no doubt, under the deed of 1811, must have become clothed with the title of Walton's moiety of the land. For although as deeds of conveyance must be under seal, it is necessary the power under which they may be executed should be sealed also; yet as the title will pass without the deed being recorded, a failure to record the power can not possibly preclude the alienee from gaining through the deed the vendor's title. A power of attorney if not recorded, should be proved if objected to; if not objected to, it must be presumed to have been proved, or the objection waived. Unless recorded, the power to Sebastian, if it had been objected to, ought not, without proof of its execution, to have been used as evidence, but as no objections appear to have been taken to its introduction in the court below, this court must presume that the execution of the power was either regularly proven, or that the introduction of such proof was waived by the appellants. Assuming, then, that the appellees have shewn a regular deduction of title from the patentees, it results that as tenants in common, holding a community of interest under the titles so deduced, they must have properly united in bringing the present suit, for the purpose of investigating the validity of Holder's and Walton's entry. And with respect to the entry, it is impossible a reasonable doubt can be entertained; for there is not only shewn to exist a perfect aptitude between the objects delineated on the connected plat, and those called for in the entry, but the rocky ford called for as the beginning, is moreover proven to have obtained, at the date of the entry, great and general notoriety. The aptitude of objects found on the ground with those called for in the entry, is a very persuasive argument in favor of an entry. But admitting the entry to be good, it is still contended that the appellants have shewn a superior right under the adverse claim of Moses Thomas, assignee of William Cradlebaugh. In December, 1779, Moses Thomas as assignee, &c. obtained from the court of commissioners a certificate for a settlement and pre-emption, &c. "Lying on Stoner's fork of Licking, at the mouth of a creek called Wolf creek, a branch of Licking, by the said Cradlebaugh improving the same, and raising a crop of corn in the country, &c." *4 In January 1780, Thomas entered the settlement with the surveyor as follows: "Moses Thomas, assignee, &c. enters 400 acres, by virtue of a certificate, lying on Stoner's fork near the mouth of a creek called Wolf creek, a branch of Licking, to include said Cradlebaugh's improvement." And in 1783, entered the pre-emption of 1,000 acres on the south fork of Licking creek, and in the forks of the same where the rocky ford, formerly called Wolf creek, empties into the same, joining his settlement above on the two upper sides. The appellants hold under the latter of these entries; and as it is junior in date to that of Holder and Walton, they can not succeed but upon the ground of its pre-emptive dignity. In the absence of description in a certificate of pre-emption, notoriety is indispensible. But on that ground we are of opinion they have totally failed to manifest the superior equity. For the certificate of Thomas is not only defective in pointing out with the requisite precision and certainty, the improvement of Cradlebaugh, but the evidence taken in the cause is also clearly insufficient to shew that the improvement possessed such a degree of notoriety as, in the absence of proper description, can communiate to the appellants' claim any pre-emptive dignity. But it is moreover contended, that in consequence of the length of time the appellants, and those through whom they claim, have been possessed of the land in contest, they ought not to be compelled to surrender their elder title. To this objection it need, however, be only remarked, that if, as was urged in argument, twenty years adverse possession would prevent the interposition of a court of equity, under the circumstances detailed in evidence, the appellant can not, upon that ground, be protected. For although some of the witnesses speak of one of the defendants in the court below having been in possession ofthe land claimed by him for more than twenty years, there is no evidence conducing to shew that either of the appellants, or those through whom they claim, have been possessed of any part of the land now in contest, for that period. If in any case twenty years' adverse possession will protect in chancery, that possession must be of the land in contest. Upon the whole we are of opinion the decree of the court below must be affirmed with cost. Bibb for appellants, Hardin for appellees. Ky.App. 1818. Spurr v. Trimble 1 A.K.Marsh. 278, 8 Ky. 278, 1818 WL 1358 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
