(Cite as: 4 Litt. 291,  14 Ky. 291 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1286 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bodley v. Desha. Nov. 28, 1823. *1 FROM THE MASON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. ADAM BEATTY SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry calling "to begin at the line of S.," there being no evidence to enable the court to fix with certainty the location of S., was held invalid. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases Where a claim was referred to in an entry as including the Shannon cabin in the fork of a run about nine miles from the lower Blue Licks, but the only evidence in relation to the cabin was the testimony of one witness, who stated that he was shown the cabin by another witness, who said that it was the Shannon cabin, but such other witness, in his deposition, did not mention the cabin, the entry was invalid as indefinite as to location. BIBB for plaintiff; CRITTENDEN for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This is a contest for land, depending upon the validity of the following entry: Entries he??d invalid, for lack of proof as to a cabin and improvement which were to be included, although the places where they ought to have been, had they existed, seem to have been sufficiently ascertained. "4th January, 1783. John Marshall, jun. assignee, enters 6,052 acres of land, on three treasury warrants, &c. beginning in Hugh Shannon's line, 150 poles from his south-east corner; thence with the said Shannon's, westwardly, to his corner; thence still westwardly, to run with the southwardly side of Henry Owsley's 400 acre entry, to Fitzpatrick, and binding with the southwardly side of his land, westwardly, stopping 150 poles short of his south-westwardly corner; from thence and from the beginning in Shannon's line, at right angles, southwardly, till a line as nearly at right angles with these two lines as the case will admit of, will include the quantity. This land lies on the north fork of Licking." The claims referred in the above entry, are as follows: "14th January, 1780. Hugh Shannon this day claimed a settlement and pre-emption to a tract of land lying on the middle road leading from Laurence's run, including a cabin in the fork of a run, about nine miles from the lower Blue Licks, by raising a crop of corn in the country in the year, 1776, and residing twelve months before the year 1778," &c. "3d February, 1780. Hugh Shannon enters 400 acres by certificate, &c. lying on the middle road leading to Laurence's creek, including a cabin in the forks of a run, about nine miles from the lower Blue Licks." "June 7th, 1780. Hugh Shannon enters a pre-emption warrant of 1,000 acres, adjoining his settlement on Licking, and run south-east for quantity." *2 "April 23d, 1780. John Fitzpatrick this day claimed a pre-emption, at the state price, of 1,000 acres of land in the district of Kentucky, on account of marking and improving the same in the year 1775, lying on the waters of the north fork of Licking creek, to the west, and adjoining the lands of Hugh Shannon, to include his improvements," &c. "May 29th, 1780. Terrell and Hawkins enter 1,000 acres of land on pre-emption warrant No. &c. assignees of John Fitzpatrick, as tenants in common, on the north fork of Licking creek, to the west, and adjoining the lands of Hugh Shannon, to include his improvement." "1780, October 17th. Henry Owsley enters 455 acres upon a treasury warrant, on the Buffalo road leading from the lower Salt Lick to the head of Laurence's creek, joining Hugh Shannon's settlement and pre-emption, to the west side, and joining John Fitzpatrick's pre-emption on the east side, extending south for quantity." We have been incapable of discovering the evidence which, according to any rational interpretation, will enable us to fix, with any thing like precision and certainty, the location of Shannon. The evidence is sufficient to establish the road leading from the Blue Licks to Laurence's creek, and at the distance of about nine miles from the Licks, the road passes two branches of a run, which unite not very remote from the road; so that the location of Shannon might perhaps be sustained, if the cabin called for was sufficiently established by the proof. But there is no evidence which goes to prove the existence of a cabin any where in the forks of the run, at the date of Shannon's certificate or entry; and without identifying the cabin which the entry calls to include, it is impossible to say what land the location includes. The only evidence in relation to a cabin in the forks of the creek, is that of John Kenton, who states that several years after the date of the entry, he was shown a cabin by Simon Kenton, for Shannon's cabin; but he is unable to say that it existed at the date of the entry, or that it was in fact Shannon's; and although the deposition of Simon Kenton is taken, he maintains a perfect silence as to the cabin, which John Kenton states was shown to him. We might also add, that there is a total absence of proof as to the improvement called for in the entry of Fitzpatrick, without which, neither Fitzpatrick's nor Marshall's entries can be sustained, even were the cabin called for in the entry of Shannon, sufficiently identified and proved. It was, therefore, correct in the court below to dismiss the bill of Bodley, setting up the entry of Marshall against the elder patent of Desha. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Bodley v. Desha 4 Litt. 291, 14 Ky. 291, 1823 WL 1286 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
