(Cite as: 4 Bibb 483,  7 Ky. 483 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1058 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mudd's administrator v. Beauchamp. Apr. 9, 1817. *1 In debt on a record of another State, interlocutory judgment for the debt and writ of inquiry as to damages awarded, it is error for the jury to find the debt to be discharged by damages. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 945 228 Judgment 228XXI Actions on Judgments 228XXI(B) Foreign Judgments 228k945 k. Trial. Most Cited Cases In an action of debt on a record of another state, where interlocutory judgment for the debt and writ of inquiry were awarded, it was error for the jury to find the debt to be discharged, since their only duty was to inform the court upon the subject of damages occasioned by the detention of debt. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE present plaintiff brought this action of debt in the Court below, upon a record from the State of Maryland, and alleged in his declaration the value of the debt in this currency. Judgment for the debt was entered by the Court; but because the damages for its detention were unknown, a writ of inquiry was awarded; and upon the execution of the inquiry, after excluding all the parol evidence offered by the plaintiff; the Court, at the instance of the defendant, instructed the jury that they must find for the plaintiff the debt in the declaration mentioned, to be discharged by ten dollars and twenty-five cents, the amount of the costs contained in the record from Maryland; and the jury having found a verdict in pursuance of the instructions, judgment was entered accordingly The jury most clearly had nothing to do with the debt. They were raised for the special purpose of informing the Court upon the subject of damages occasioned by the detention of the debt. To that object, therefore, their inquiry should have been exclusively confined; and consequently it was improper either to require of them a finding of the debt, or in any manner to subject the debt to a discharge by a payment of the damages. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below, and proceedings there had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1817. Mudd's Adm'r v. Beauchamp 4 Bibb 483, 7 Ky. 483, 1817 WL 1058 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
