(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 140,  9 Ky. 140 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1180 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Andrew Rowan v. Elizabeth Woodward. Dec. 9, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE OHIO CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 28 2 Abatement and Revival 2III Defects and Objections as to Parties and Proceedings 2k28 k. Misjoinder of Parties. Most Cited Cases A declaration against joint covenantors, sued after the death of one of them, is not rendered sufficient by a subsequent discontinuance as to the deceased covenantor. Abatement and Revival 2 k 28 2 Abatement and Revival 2III Defects and Objections as to Parties and Proceedings 2k28 k. Misjoinder of Parties. Most Cited Cases Where two joint covenantors are sued for breach of the covenant, after death of one of them, a plea in abatement of the action by the survivor, alleging the death, should be sustained. Covenants 108 k 112 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k112 k. Process and Appearance. Most Cited Cases Where two entered into a covenant, and one died before suit, it is error to sue both;  and a subsequent abatement of the writ as to the deceased obligor will not render the writ good. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent, Judge Rowan. This was an action of covenant brought by Elizabeth Woodward, administratrix of the estate of John Wood ward deceased, against Andrew Rowan and John Douglass, upon a covenant entered into between them and the intestate. The writ was served upon Rowan, and Douglass being returned no inhabitant an abatement was entered as to him. On a covenant entered into by two, and before suit one dies, it is error to sue both; the right of action survives, and the survivor alone should be impleaded; no subsequent abatement of the writ as to the dead obligor renders the writ good. Rowan appeared, and pleaded in abatement of the writ, that Douglass had departed this life before the suing out the writ; and the administratrix having filed a demurrer to the plea, and it being joined by Rowan, judgment was rendered against him; and from that judgment he has appealed to this court. Whether, therefore, the court decided correctly in sustaining the demurrer, is the only question necessary to be considered in the decision of this case. If the plea would have been availing before the abatement was entered as to Douglass, it is plain that the discontinuance as to him can not make it inoperative. That abatement was not produced by the act of Rowan, and his right of defense is not to be affected either by the act of the plaintiff in the court below, or that of the court resulting from the official return of the sheriff. And that the plea contains sufficient matter of abatement we apprehend there is no room to doubt. Had Douglass departed this life after the commencement of the action, it might, no doubt, have been abated as to him and prosecuted against Rowan; but Douglass being dead when the writ emanated, it was clearly irregular to join him in the action, and consequently formed properly, matter in abatement of the writ: 1 Chitty, pa. 441; Bac. Abr. title Abatement, J. *2 The judgment of the circuit court, therefore, must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. B. Hardin for plaintiff, Hardin contra. Ky.App. 1819. Rowan v. Woodward 2 A.K.Marsh. 140, 9 Ky. 140, 1819 WL 1180 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
