(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 524,  10 Ky. 524 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1159 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ovid M'Cracken v. Jos. Woodfork. Jun. 10, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE HARDIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 9(2) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k9 Prior Possession of Plaintiff 179k9(2) k. Right of Possession and Constructive Possession.  Most Cited Cases Where a vendee leased lands to his vendor for a term, and at the expiration of the term refused to take possession, declaring he would not abide by the purchase, he cannot maintain forcible entry and detainer against a stranger, who entered on the abandonment of the vendor. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment of restitution, recovered by Woodfork on the trial of a traverse, under the law regulating proceedings in cases of forcible entries and detainers. The main question presented for the consideration and decision of this court, involves an inquiry into the circuit court's refusal to grant a new trial of the issue taken to the traverse. The warrant which issued in favor of Woodfork charges M'Cracken with having committed a forcible entry and detainer; and the new trial was asked for on the ground of the verdict being against law and evidence. From the bill of exceptions it appears evidence was introduced, tending to prove that whilst a certain John Montgomery was residing on the land now in contest, he sold the land to Woodfork, and at the same time took from Woodfork a lease for the land until the 15th of March thereafter; that Montgomery, in consequence of the lease, resided on the land as Woodfork's tenant until the 15th of March, and paid Woodfork twelve and one-half cents in consequence of the lease; that on the 15th of March, the day the lease expired, Montgomery went to Woodfork, informed him that he desired no longer to hold the possession of the land, and requested Woodfork to go and receive the possession; but Woodfork replied he did not want the place, and he would have nothing more to do with it, and at the same time observed that Montgomery had not complied with his part of the contract, and could not compel him, Woodfork, to take the land. It also appears from the evidence, that Montgomery then left Woodfork, and after returning home, about twelve o'clock of the same day, moved off with all his property, except some of his poultry, leaving the house vacant; and that immediately after Montgomery left the house, a certain George Overton entered and took the possession; and on the same day M'Cracken came to the house apparently intending to take the possession, but Overton would not permit him to do so, and after some altercation between Overton and M'Cracken, they became reconciled, and the latter left the place leaving the former in possession. It also appears that on the next day after Overton took possession, he delivered the possession over to M'Cracken, and that M'Cracken has continued in the possession ever since; and that Woodfork never demanded the possession until about three or four weeks after Overton obtained the possession. *2 Whether we consider Woodfork as proceeding either for a forcible entry or a forcible detainer, the principle is not perceived on which his right to restitution can be maintained. He evidently can not be entitled to restitution on the ground of a forcible entry having been made on his possession; for the proof is clear that Montgomery had not only removed from the house before Overton entered, but before he removed he was informed by Woodfork that he (Woodfork) would not receive the possession. In whatever light the entry of Overton might have been viewed, therefore, if Woodfork had not, by his declaration to Montgomery, evinced a determination not to receive the possession it is obvious that, after making those declaration, Woodfork can not have been possessed of the land when Overton entered, and consequently for that entry Woodfork can not be entitled to restitution. A vendee of lands leasing them to the vendor for a term, and refusing to take the possession at the request of the vendor and declaring he would not abide by the purchase, can not maintain a warrant of forcible entry and detainer against a stranger, who shall have entered on the abandonment of the vendor. And it is equally clear Woodfork can not obtain restitution on the ground of a forcible detainer of the possession; for as Montgomery was possessed of the land before he leased it from Woodfork, the lease could not have authorized Woodfork to proceed against Montgomery for a forcible detainer in holding over, after the expression of the lease; and if Montgomery could not have been compelled to make restitution, it is clear that neither Overton nor M'Cracken can be, even were it conceded that from the evidence the jury might have presumed that Overton obtained the possession by the assent and approbation of Montgomery. It results that a new trial ought to have been awarded, and, consequently, the judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Pope, for appellant. Ky.App. 1821. McCracken v. Woodfork 3 A.K.Marsh. 524, 10 Ky. 524, 1821 WL 1159 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
