(Cite as: 4 Bibb 11,  7 Ky. 11 (Ky.),  1815 WL 631 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Beeler, etc. v. Bullitt. Apr. 10, 1815. *1 In decreeing a partition of lands against infants, time after arriving at full age ought to be given them to shew cause against the decree. A guardian being appointed to defend for the infants, it was erroneous to hear the cause without answer, or farther proceedings to compel an answer. An appearance by attorney does not cure the error See vol.3, Shields' heirs v. Bryant, 525.--Searcy's heirs v. Rearden, 528. West Headnotes Infants 211 k 1292 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(B) Course of Proceedings 211k1291 Pleading 211k1292 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k92) It is clearly irregular to proceed to a hearing against infant defendants, no answer having been filed by their guardian, and a subsequent appearance by attorney does not cure the error. Infants 211 k 1314 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(B) Course of Proceedings 211k1314 k. Reservation to child of day in court. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k109) An absolute decree against infants, without giving them a day after they come of age to show cause against it, will be reversed. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS writ of error is brought to reverse a decree of the Court below, pronounced in a suit brought in that Court by the defendant in error against the plaintiffs, a part of whom are infants. The decree is made absolute against all the defendants in that Court, without giving the infants a day after they arrive at full age to show cause. This, we apprehend, is a fatal objection to the decree; for Courts of Chancery at all times are careful of the right of infants, and to preserve and guard their interests, have adopted as a general rule of practice, never to make a decree against an infant without giving him a day after he comes of full age to show cause.--See Hind's Ch. Pr. 433. It is true this rule, in some instances has been departed from by the English Courts in practice; but we are aware of no case where it has been held not to apply to a decree (such as in the present case) for the partition of lands. But if such a case could be found, we should greatly hesitate in recognizing its authority; for it is evident every reason which could in any respect have conduced to the adoption of such a rule, concurs strongly to require its application to the present case. Because, therefore a day was not given to the infant defendants in that Court to show cause after they became of full age, the decree must be reversed. We would not be understood as having decided on the merits of the matter in contest; for as the decree, for the reason just mentioned, must be reversed, before we could regularly determine what decree should be made on the merits, it became necessary to inquire whether the proceedings were so regular as would authorize any decree; and on making this inquiry, it is manifest the proceedings against the infants are in other respects evidently erroneous. *2 It was clearly irregular to proceed to a hearing of the cause without an answer having been previously filed on behalf of the infants by their guardian, and without any farther proceedings being had against them after making the order appointing their guardian. This irregularity, we are of opinion, is not cured by the subsequent appearance of the defendants by their attorney; for as according to the settled rules of practice, infant defendants cannot regularly appear by attorney, an entry of their having so appeared cannot in any respect affect their case. The cause must therefore not only be reversed, but remanded to the Court below for new proceedings, to commence at the order appointing a guardian. The plaintiffs in error must recover their costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Beeler v. Bullitt 4 Bibb 11, 7 Ky. 11, 1815 WL 631 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
