(Cite as: 3 Bibb 300,  6 Ky. 300 (Ky.),  1814 WL 768 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Campbell's adm'r v. Bealor's adm'r, etc. Apr. 19, 1814. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 92 343 Sales 343III Modification or Rescission of Contract 343III(A) By Agreement of Parties 343k92 k. Agreement to Rescind. Most Cited  Cases A. bought land of B., and paid him a negro at the price of $400 in part pay for the land, after which both parties died.  A.'s administrator and heirs brought a bill, praying that the contract might be canceled and compensation granted for the negro. They proved an agreement of A. and B. to rescind the contract, and that B.'s heirs had sold the land.  Held, that the contract should be rescinded, and that the price of the negro with interest from the time he was received by B., should be paid to the complainants;  the costs to be paid out of B.'s estate. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 C. BEALOR purchased from Campbell in his lifetime eight acres of land in Jefferson county, at which time the parties entered into an agreement in writing, containing the mutual stipulations of each, and to a true performance thereof, each bound himself in the penalty of 200 dollars. Where vendee had failed to pay part of the purchase, and vendor and vendee had declared themselves willing to cancel the contract, and the representatives of the vendor had sold the land to another, the vendee is entitled to have a decree to rescind the agreement, and to recover back the sum paid in part of the purchase. Under such circumstances the vendor shall not have the penalty in which each party were reciprocally bound for faithful performance. The vendee having delivered property at a price agreed, in part payment, that price with interest from the delivery is the measure of compensation on rescinding the contract. An administrator is not to pay costs out of his own estate, under the statute of Kentucky, but out of the assets only. A decree affirmed in part and reversed in part, each party to pay his own costs. Bealor, in pursuance of the stipulations on his part, paid Campbell a negro man at the price of 400 dollars, in part for the land; after which both parties died, and the heirs of Campbell sold the land to Cosby who likewise administered on Campbell's estate. The administrator and heirs of Bealor then exhibited their bill in chancery, alleging the purchase and payment of the negro aforesaid, and charging that both C. Bealor and Campbell while living agreed to cancel the contract, and prayed for a decree to that effect, and compensation for the negro. The administrator of Campbell admits he heard both C. Bealor and Campbell say they were willing to cancel the contract; but he knows of no agreement of the parties to that effect, but alleges a failure on the part of Bealor to comply with his contract, whereby he conceives Bealor has become chargeable for the penalty; and admits he has purchased the land from the representatives of Campbell. On a hearing of the cause the Court below decreed the contract to be set aside, and the administrator of Campbell to pay the price of the negro with interest, out of the estate in his hands to be administered, and costs out of his own estate, etc. From this decree the administrator of Campbell has prosecuted this appeal. There can be no doubt but that the Circuit Court decided correctly in setting aside the contract. After the mutual assent of both that the contract should be canceled, and when the land has been disposed of by the representatives of the seller to a purchaser for a valuable consideration, it is clear that at the instance of the purchaser he should be relieved from the contract; and it is equally clear that under such circumstances neither party should in equity obtain a decree for the penalty stipulated in the agreement. If, therefore, the decree is correct in canceling the contract, it necessarily follows that the appellee has a right to compensation for the price of the negro delivered in part pay for the land, and that the proper measure of that compensation is the price of the negro with interest from the time he was received by Campbell, and that the Court below properly made their decree accordingly. *2 But we are of opinion that the decree is erroneous in making the appellant pay the costs out of his own estate. It was held in the case of Beauchamp v. Davis, executor (ante 115), that according to the existing laws executors or administrators are not chargeable, in cases like the present, for costs beyond the assets to be administered. The decree, therefore, in every respect but as to the costs, is correct and must be affirmed; and as to the costs, it must be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Court below and a decree there entered for costs to be paid out of the estate of the intestate, etc. Each party must pay their costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1814. Campbell's Adm'r v. Bealor's Adm'r 3 Bibb 300, 6 Ky. 300, 1814 WL 768 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
