(Cite as: 2 Bibb 566,  5 Ky. 566 (Ky.),  1812 WL 622 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Finley's executors, etc. v. Lynch and Blanton's heirs Spring Term, 1812. *1 If a vendor makes a deed to the vendee, and afterward acquires title, the vendee cannot claim a rescission of the contract on that account. If the vendor represents his title as clear and undisputed, an inconsiderable interference, so small as not to raise a presumption that it would have induced the purchaser to have declined the purchase had it not been known to him, is not cause of vacating the contract in equity, but the vendor shall be responsible for damages at law. A vendor of a tract of land under one survey or grant shall not set up another conflicting claim acquired before or after the sale in opposition to the title of his vendee. A mortgage recorded in one county for land in another, is not valid against a bona fide purchase without notice of the mortgage; but this irregularity of the enr??lment cannot be insisted on by the mortgagor, to rebut the claim of the vendee to have the contract rescinded--but he may repel the prayer of the vendee for vacating the contract, by showing a release of the mortgage. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 118 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k118 k. Defenses or Objections. Most Cited  Cases Suit was brought for the rescission of a contract for the purchase of land on the ground of fraud. It being shown that the complainant had received a deed and paid one installment under the contract, after knowledge of the alleged fraud; that the vendor had purchased the conflicting claims, with one inconsiderable exception, before the date of the deed;  and that a mortgage on said land was not recorded in the county where the land lay, and that said mortgage had been released-it was held that the contract ought not to be rescinded. Opinion of the Court by Judge LOGAN. Judge OWSLEY absent. THIS is a suit in chancery, brought for the purpose of rescinding a contract for land, on the ground of fraud. The complainants, who are appellants in this Court, allege that the contract was entered into under assurances that the land was safe, of sure title, clear of interference, and free from encumbrance. These allegations are in substance supported. It therefore becomes necessary to consider whether those facts, under the circumstances of this case, ought to avoid the contract? The first point we shall examine in relation to the alleged misrepresentation, is the claim set up to the land in question by the defendants, under the title of James Kemp. The defendants held the obligation of Kemp, for a moiety of a large tract, including the land sold to Finley, to which tract Kemp had obtained a patent. To this land the defendants represented that they had procured a deed of conveyance from the patentee, which they stated was in the hands of John Jouitt, who had brought the same from Virginia. The complainant on inquiry, finding that Jouitt had not returned from Virginia, refused payment, and applied for a cancelment of the contract; which the defendants refused to cancel. They, however, procured a division of the said tract to be made by commissioners, under the act of assembly in such cases provided, and executed their deed of conveyance to the said Finley, for the land they had sold him, which he received in preference to a controversy at law respecting their bargain. But it may be observed, that the deed thus executed, although it is founded on the report of the commissioners, yet it is of prior date to the deed of the commissioners to the defendants. A mistake, however, of this sort ought never to be extended to set aside a contract, where no special injury has thereby been done, beside that incident to, and the necessary result of such error. *2 The acceptance, therefore, of the deed by the purchaser; his payment moreover of the first instalment under the contract; and the reception of the land, and continuing in its undisturbed possession, presents no ground for his application to chancery to set aside the contract, more than he had abandoned in waiving his first objection, and accepting the deed founded on the act of the commissioners. But the abandonment of that objection, and receiving the deed under a knowledge of the title, was ratifying the contract under the circumstances then in his possession. It may not be improper here to notice, that the deed from Jouitt to Lynch is entitled to no weight in this cause, because it is not shown that Jouitt had any right which he could pass in the said land. A second ground taken for the rescission of the contract, is the confliction of several adversary claims. But those claims are either shown to have been purchased up by the defendant Lynch, or so inconsiderably to interfere with the land purchased by the complain??nt's ancestor from the defendants, that even should the claims be valid, it ought not to vacate the contract; because it is not such as a Court of Chancery could ??ay, would, had it been known at the making of the contract, have prevented the bargain, the vendors renaining liable for the damages which might accrue under their warranty. The claim which most interferes with that of Kemp, and with the land sold to Finley, is in the name of Herndon. Upon this claim the elder patent has been obtained. And it appears that Lynch had become the proprietor thereof, by conveyances deduced from the patentee, prior to his sale of said land. But whether those deeds have been regularly executed and recorded to pass the title at law, need not be now determined. If however they have been, then by his deed the legal title was transferred to Finley. And if those deeds have not been duly recorded to pass the legal estate, they have, nevertheless, combined with his purchase an equity in that claim, and may give the paramount title in law to the land in question. With respect to the claim in the name of John May, as assignee of Coleman, two answers may be given, which seem satisfactory against the application to rescind the contract. First, that the claim as exhibited would interfere very little, if any, when laid down according to the evidence furnished. And secondly, that John May's executors, who were empowered by his will to make such sales, sold to the defendants the moiety of Kemp's claim, which includes the same land. The only other conflicting claim which is shown in this case, interferes too inconsiderably to justify a total rescission of the contract if even it should be the superior claim. Another, and the most prominent ground exhibited for canceling the present contract is this, that the defendants had, prior to their sale to Finley, given a mortgage on said land. Toward obviating this ground for vacating the contract, it is contended that the mortgage was recorded in Jefferson, and the land lies in Shelby county. *3 This objection would have been conclusive, had it come from the innocent purchaser for a valuable consideration, having the legal title. But it does not follow that those who have committed the fraud may avail themselves of the legal strength of the innocent against those they had injured. It does not lie with them to force the last purchaser, contrary to both his contract and inclination, to oppose a prior equity, which they had created in the first place; and in the second, were aiming to destroy suppressio veri. But the defendants rely moreover on the release of the mortgagees to the land sold to Finley. This we think they have satisfactorily shown, and, therefore, that the contract ought not to be canceled; for the complainants are to every just and substantial purpose possessed of the subject matter of the purchase, as they or their ancestors had expected. The decree dismissing the bill must be affirmed with costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1812. Finley's Ex'rs v. Lynch 2 Bibb 566, 5 Ky. 566, 1812 WL 622 (Ky.), 5 Am.Dec. 635 END OF DOCUMENT
