(Cite as: 4 Bibb 263,  7 Ky. 263 (Ky.),  1815 WL 763 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mason's executors and others v. Holmes and Gill. Dec. 6, 1815. *1 In a suit in chancery for the cancelment of a contract for the sale of a tract of land, on the ground of previous liens on the land by executions, a memorandum without a date, signed by the party acknowledging to have given up a tract of land to execution, without exhibiting the execution, is no evidence of a lien. A ca. sa. issued against the party creates no lien; so also of fi. fa. issued before the conveyance, but suspended by injunction. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 108 161 Execution 161IV Lien 161k107 Creation and Existence of Lien 161k108 k. In General. Most Cited Cases A ca. sa. creates no lien on land of defendant, it running only against the person. Execution 161 k 174 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k174 k. Effect of Stay or Suspension. Most Cited Cases A fieri facias suspended by an injunction creates no lien on the land of the defendant. Judgment 228 k 461(3) 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(B) Jurisdiction and Proceedings 228k461 Evidence 228k461(3) k. Weight and Sufficiency in General. Most  Cited Cases A. gave his obligation for the payment of the purchase money of a tract of land, on which judgment was afterwards obtained. On a bill for relief, alleging execution liens on the land, it was held that a memorandum, acknowledging the giving up of a tract of land to execution, said memorandum not being dated, nor shown to have been made before A. purchased, was no evidence of a lien. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. SMITH, the agent of Lynch, sold and conveyed to Holmes and Gill a tract of land in Shelby county, and took from them an obligation for the payment of the purchase money; and some time thereafter, for a valuable consideration, assigned the same to Mason, who brought suit thereon, and recovered a judgment at law. To be relieved against this judgment, and to obtain a cancelment of the contract for the purchase of the land, Holmes and Gill exhibited their bill in equity with an injunction, in which they charge as grounds for setting aside the contract, the existence of execution liens on behalf of Lynch's creditors, Freeland, Woods, and Duke, and the actual sale of part of the purchased premises in virtue of these executions. The answers of the defendants in the Court below, the present plaintiffs, admit nothing material to the complainants' right to relief, but throw them on the proof of the allegations of their bill. The Court below, on a hearing, being of opinion the complainants had sufficiently manifested their right to relief, made the injunction perpetual, and decreed the contract to be canceled. That decree, we are of opinion, cannot from the exhibits and evidence in the cause, in any point of view it can be considered, be sustained. The record affords not the slightest evidence of a lien in favor of Freeland; there is not even the exhibition of an execution in his favor; and although there appears to be memorandum signed by the name of Lynch, evidencing his having given up a tract of land to M'Clelland to levy an execution on, in favor of Freeland against him, that memorandum has no date, and by no legal evidence is shown to have existed prior to the sale by Smith to the complainants. With respect to the alleged lien in favor of Woods, there is no evidence but what results from a ca. sa. which appears to have issued prior to that date; but as that was a writ against the person, and not against the property of Lynch, it is impossible any lien can have been created on his estate thereby. As to Duke, although a fieri facias is shown to have issued prior to the conveyance by Smith for Lynch, the proceedings under that execution appear to have been suspended by an injunction, and no other fieri facias is exhibited, which by any possible rule of construction can evince the existence of a lien when the sale was made to the complainants. *2 As, therefore, the record is destitute of any evidence from which a lien can be inferred to have existed when the land was sold by Smith, the complainants in the Court below, the defendants here, have altogether failed to support the grounds upon which they resorted to equity for relief; and the decree of that Court must consequently be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and the bill dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Mason's Ex'rs v. Holmes 4 Bibb 263, 7 Ky. 263, 1815 WL 763 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
