(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 9,  9 Ky. 9 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1118 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gabriel Barbour et al. v. John Archer et al. Oct. 5, 1819. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 175 157 Evidence 157V Best and Secondary Evidence 157k173 Original Writing as Best Evidence 157k175 k. Public Records or Documents. Most Cited  Cases The printed report of a decision of the court of appeals is not admissible, as evidence of a fact therein stated since the record itself, or a transcript thereof, is the best evidence. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent, Judge Rowan. This action was brought by Archer against the heirs of Barbour, upon a deed of covenant, executed by their ancestor. The declaration makes no profert of the deed; but as an excuse for not doing so, alleges it to be in the possession of one of the heirs. The printed report of a decision of the court of appeals, is not the best evidence of a fact therein stated, and is therefore inadmissible. An issue was made up on the fact of possession, and a jury called;--and on the trial, notwithstanding the objections of the heirs, Archer was permitted to read in evidence, from the printed report, for the purpose of proving the fact therein recited, the opinion of this court, delivered in the case of Barbour's administrator against Archer. The printed report, we are of opinion, should not have been used in evidence; 1. Because the record itself, or a transcript thereof, and not the printed report, is the best evidence of the facts therein contained. And, A record is evidence against parties and privies only. 2. Because, if admissible between the same parties, yet as there is nothing in the present case shewing the heir of Barbour and his administrator to be the same person, upon the plain principle of a record not being evidence against those, neither parties nor privies, the printed report should not have been admitted. The judgment must therefore be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Bibb for appellant, Littell for appellee. Ky.App. 1819. Barbour v. Archer 2 A.K.Marsh. 9, 9 Ky. 9, 1819 WL 1118 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
