(Cite as: 4 Bibb 84,  7 Ky. 84 (Ky.),  1815 WL 671 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Graves v. Hughes. Jun. 2, 1815. *1 The return of a subpena against several defendants, "executed and a copy of the bill left;" without stating with which of the defendants, does not authorize the taking the bill pro?? ??confesso against either of the defendants. Where a decree is reversed for want of a sufficient service of process below; upon sending the cause back for new proceedings, the appearance of the party in the Appellate Court ??is sufficient to dispense with the service of process in the Court below--Accord.vol. 1, Graves v. Taylor. 430--Craig v. Horine, 115. West Headnotes Appearance 31 k 26 31 Appearance 31k26 k. Effect of Appearance After Judgment. Most Cited Cases Where a judgment taken by default on a defective service is reversed, and the cause remanded, the appearance of defendant in the appellate court dispenses with service in the court below. Equity 150 k 124 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k120 Subpoena 150k124 k. Return. Most Cited Cases Under the the statute requiring the execution of a subpoena to be made by delivering a copy of the bill to the first-named defendant, and that the officer show return of service on the summons, the return of a subpoena against several defendants "executed and a copy of the bill left," without stating with which of the defendants, is insufficient. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. HENRY PALMER mortgaged to Hughes two negro girls, Fanny and Easter, and subsequent thereto sold Fanny to Philip Walker, and Easter to John Graves. Hughes, to foreclose Palmer's equity of redemption in the mortgaged property, and subject the negroes to the payment of his demand, exhibited his bill in equity, making Palmer, Walker, and Graves all parties. The sheriff to whom the subpena was directed returned it "executed, and a copy of the bill left." Walker answered, and the cause being regularly prepared for a hearing as to him, the bill was taken for confessed against Palmer, and his equity of redemption foreclosed, and the negro, Fanny, purchased by Walker directed to be sold to satisfy Hughes' demand. The negro was accordingly sold, but there being a balance still due to Hughes, at a subsequent term the bill as to Graves was also taken for confessed, and a decree pronounced against him for the balance coming to Hughes. To reverse this decree Graves has prosecuted this writ of error with supersedeas. The assignment of error questions as well the correctness of the proceedings in taking the bill for confessed as the propriety of making any decree upon the merits; but as we are of opinion the sheriff's return upon the subpena is insufficient to authorize the bill to be taken as confessed, we have thought it unnecessary to investigate the merits of the claim. That return clearly does not conform to the requisitions of the law under which the proceedings in this case were had. It is not only essential the subpena should be executed, but that execution is required to be made by delivering a copy of the bill to the first named defendant; and the sheriff is also required so to return the service upon the summons The return of the sheriff in this case however does not so express the process to have been executed. A copy of the bill is not alleged to have been delivered to the first named defendant; and according to the case of Taylor and Talbot v. Jackson (vol. 2, 572), and the case of M'Cracken, etc. v. Coffman, in this Court, upon such a return the bill cannot be regularly taken for confessed. *2 The circumstance of Graves not being the defendant to whom the copy of the bill should have been delivered cannot affect the case: for as by the provisions of the law the bill cannot be taken as confessed until a regular service of process, the proceedings in this case without such a service, are irregular as respects Graves as well as Palmer, and consequently the former equally with the latter may avail himself of the irregularity. The decree as to Graves is therefore erroneous and must be reversed, the cause remanded to the Court below and the order taking the bill for confessed against Graves set aside, and he have leave to answer the bill, should he apply for leave to do so; but if he should not apply for leave to answer, then as by the laws now in force a copy of the bill need not be delivered, and as he has appeared to the cause an order again may be entered taking the bill for confessed, and such other proceedings had as may be necessary to a final decree. The plaintiff must recover his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Graves v. Hughes 4 Bibb 84, 7 Ky. 84, 1815 WL 671 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
