(Cite as: 4 Bibb 527,  7 Ky. 527 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1086 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Williams v. Gilchrist. Apr. 24, 1817. *1 Upon count for money had and received, proof of a sale of the plaintiff's property for money made by defendant, is admissible evidence although the sale was made without the consent of the plaintiff. But such evidence would not be admissible under a count for goods sold by plaintiff to defendant. To support a declaration upon accounts stated, proof of a settlement of accounts is required. West Headnotes Implied and Constructive Contracts 205H k 17 205H Implied and Constructive Contracts 205HI Nature and Grounds of Obligation 205HI(B) Money Received 205Hk15 Consideration or Purpose for Which Money Was  Received 205Hk17 k. Proceeds of Property Converted by Defendant.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 264k6(3)  Money Received) On an account for money had and received, proof of a sale by defendant of plaintiff's property for money is admissible, though the sale was made without the plaintiff's consent. Account Stated 11 k 1 11 Account Stated 11k1 k. Nature and Subject-Matter in General. Most Cited Cases Proof of a settlement of accounts is required to support a declaration on account stated. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS case turns on the propriety of the decision of the Court below, in rejecting the evidence introduced by Williams, who was the plaintiff in that Court. The declaration contains three counts: the first indebitatus assumpsit for money had and received, and goods, wares and merchandise sold and delivered; and the second and third upon account stated, etc. And in support of his declaration, the plaintiff exhibited an account containing various items, and was proceeding to prove the receipt by the defendant of the items charged, in property, such as cattle, sheep, skins, saddles, etc., and the sale and conversion thereof by the defendant; but on the motion of the defendant for that purpose, the Court excluded the evidence in relation to all the items charged, except those of saddles and hats, as being inadmissible under the first count. As the evidence in no wise conduced to prove a sale of the property by the plaintiff to Gilchrist, it was certainly inadmissible under that branch of the count which claims compensation for the sale of goods, wares, etc.; but as it went to establish a sale of the property by Gilchrist, it was evidently admissible under the charge for money had and received; for if the sale was made for money, (and whether it was or not, was the subject of further proof) although it may have been made against the consent of Williams, yet upon the receipt of the money by Gilchrist, it was competent for Williams to waive the tort, and bring his action for so much money had and received to his use. With respect to the evidence offered upon the second and third counts, it need only be remarked, that as they are both upon stated accounts, proof of the settlement of accounts, either by the parties or their agents, should be required. *2 The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1817. Williams v. Gilchrist 4 Bibb 527, 7 Ky. 527, 1817 WL 1086 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
