(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 207,  8 Ky. 207 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1314 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hardage Smith v. Robert Mitchel. Apr. 23, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BATH CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 44 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(E) Duration and Continuity of Possession 20k44 k. Continuity in General. Most Cited  Cases The right of entry of the plaintiff in ejectment is not tolled by occasional acts of ownership on the part of the defendant, without 20 years' continued, uninterrupted possession. Adverse Possession 20 k 103 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k99 Possession Under Color of Title 20k103 k. Mixed Possession Under Hostile Titles,  or Conflicting Grants or Surveys. Most Cited Cases Actual occupancy of a junior title holder of that part of a track, which does not interfere with an elder grant, does not give adverse possession of the interference, though the elder patentee has never actually entered on the land within his grant. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This ejectment was brought in the court below to recover from the appellee the possession of a tract of land, the title whereof was asserted by the appellant under the senior grant. The trial was had, and under the instructions of the court, a verdict found for the appellee, upon the ground of his having been possessed of the land, adversely, for upwards of twenty years before the commencement of the action against him. Whether, therefore, he was proven to have had such a possession, as can bar the appellant's right of entry, derived through his elder grant, is the only enquiry presented for the decision of the court. A possession taken under a junior patent and outside of the lines of an elder patent, does not give possession within the elder patent. The appellee is proven to have made an improvement, and actually settled upon the land contained within his patent more than twenty years previous to the bringing of this action; but as neither the settlement nor any part of his improvement was, at that date, contained within the boundaries of the appellant's grant, as was held by this court in the case of  Trimble and Smith, &c., 4 Bibb, 257, he can not, from that improvement and settlement, be construed to have been possessed of the land claimed by the appellant. And although the appellee, whilst residing at the place so settled by him, is proven to have occasionally, for upwards of twenty years made sugar at a camp erected by him upon the land in contest, such an occasional use can not, as was decided in the case of Braxdale and Speed at the last term of this court, confer upon him such possession as will bar the appellant's right of entry. Occasional acts of ownership exercised on the land in contest, does not give possession, or toll a plaintiff's right of entry. *2 According to these cases, therefore, the jury ought not, upon the evidence introduced, to have found against the appellant, and the court consequently should, at his intance, have awarded a new trial. The judgment must, therefore be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to that court for a new trial, to be had not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin for appellant. Ky.App. 1818. Smith v. Mitchel 1 A.K.Marsh. 207, 8 Ky. 207, 1818 WL 1314 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
