(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 135,  19 Ky. 135 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1250 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Crews' Administrator v. Newland. Apr. 5, 1826. *1 Pleading. Continuance. Practice. Statutes. ERROR TO THE GARRARD CIRCUIT; JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGE. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 720 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIV Continuance 307Ak720 k. Amendment of pleadings or change of parties. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 94k30  Continuance) Where defendant has been at one term in such default in pleading, that plaintiff might have taken judgment for want of proper plea, when defendant at a subsequent term files a proper plea, plaintiff may have a continuance for that cause only. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Case stated. This case turns upon the question, whether or not the circuit court erred in not continuing the cause, upon the application of Crews, who was plaintiff in that court. The application for a continuance was not grounded upon any extraneous fact, stated or sworn to by Crews; but it was demanded, as matter of right, because, on calling the cause, Newland pleaded the general issue, and the statute of limitations. It will not be contended by any, that the court possesses no power to continue a cause, whatever may be the state of the pleadings; but it is contended by Newland, that the court was not bound to do so, upon the application of Crews, without other cause being shown than that of the filing of the pleas. If, previous to filing his pleas, Newland had been in no default, the fact of filing them, evidently would not have given to Crews a right to a continuance. But according to the nineteenth section of the Session Acts of 1809, 1 Dig. L. K. 261, a right to a general continuance of the cause, is given to the plaintiff, whenever, by the default of the defendant in not pleading, the plaintiff either has or might have taken judgment against him, and a plea or pleas to the merits of the action, is afterwards filed. Where defendant has been at one term in such default in pleading, that plaintiff might have taken judgment for want of proper plea, when defendant, at a subsequent term, files a proper plea, plaintiff may have a continuance for that cause only. Whether or not, therefore, the cause should have been continued, turns upon the question whether, owing to any default in Newland in not pleading, judgment might have been previously taken against him. Non assumpsit and non assumpsit within five years, in an action of tort, are nought, and plaintiff may take judgment as for want of a plea. That Crews might have done so, admits of no controversy. The action is founded in tort, and had been depending for several terms, and not only so, but at a previous term, there had been a trial upon the pleas of non assumpsit and non assumpsit within five years, and after verdict for Newland, judgment was arrested, and a repleader awarded. The pleas upon which that trial was had were unquestionably not adapted to the nature of the action, and might have been treated by Crews as a nullity, and judgment taken by him as for want of a plea. That, however, was not done; but though not done, yet as by the default of Newland, judgment might have been taken against him, before the general issue and the statute of limitations were pleaded by him, when those pleas were filed, Crews had a right to demand, and it was the imperative duty of the court to grant, a general continuance. *2 After trial of issue on such pleas and repleader awarded, and appropriate pleas are filed at a subsequent term, plaintiff has a right to a continuance. The judgment must, consequently, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, no inconsistent with this opinion. Turner, for plaintiff; Caperton, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Crews' Adm'r v. Newland 3 T.B.Mon. 135, 19 Ky. 135, 1826 WL 1250 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
