(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 542,  19 Ky. 542 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1340 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Waggener v. Waggener. Oct. 14, 1826. *1 Trusts. Trustees and Cestui Que Trusts. Conveyances. Devises. Descents. Attorney. Evidence. Presumptions. Lapse of Time. Rescission of Contracts. APPEAL FROM THE CASEY CIRCUIT; JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGE. West Headnotes Principal and Agent 308 k 119(2) 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(A) Powers of Agent 308k118 Evidence as to Authority 308k119 Presumptions and Burden of  Proof 308k119(2) k. Sale and Transfer of Property in  General. Most Cited Cases Where a conveyance purports to have been made by attorney, the power must be shown;  a recital of it is insufficient. Trusts 390 k 244 390 Trusts 390IV Management and Disposal of Trust Property 390k244 k. Representatives of Deceased Trustees. Most Cited Cases If the devisee of a trustee renounce the trust, the legal title descends to the heirs of the trustee, in trust, and they must all unite to pass the title. Wills 409 k 602(3) 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(E) Nature of Estates and Interests Created 409k602 Qualified, Defeasible, or Conditional Fees 409k602(3) k. Defeat of Estate by Death Without Issue.  Most Cited Cases Where a devise is given to one for life, and in fee if he marry and have children, if he die without having had issue the estate conveyed by his deed is determined. Adverse Possession 20 k 104 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(B) Title or Right Acquired 20k104 k. Presumption of Grant. Most Cited  Cases Possession for less than 20 years will not authorize the presumption of a conveyance. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. On the 16th of June, 1820, the appellant contracted with the appellee, for a tract of four hundred acres of land, in the county of Adair, at a credit of one year, and executed his note for the purchase money. The appellee at the same time executed his bond for a title; the conveyance to be by a general warranty deed, and to be made upon the receipt of the purchase money. Appellant purchased 400 acres of land from appellee. The purchase money was not paid at the time stipulated, and suit was brought upon the note given therefor by the appellant, and judgment recovered at law by the appellee. Judgment at law for the purchase money. The appellant then exhibited his bill in equity, with injunction to be relieved against the judgment at law, and to obtain a cancelment of the contract for the land. Bill by appellant for injunction and rescission. The grounds upon which reliance is made to cancel the contract are the following: First. The inability of the appellee, through a defect of title to convey the land according to his obligation and contract. *2 Grounds relied on for a cancelment of the contract. Second. The false and fraudulent representation of the appellee, as to there being upon the land permanent and lasting springs when he knew there were none such. Third. The fraudulent description of a different boundary of land, in the bond given by the appellee, for a title than that which he advertised for sale, and which the appellant at the time of his purchase thought he was buying. The appellee denies the charges of fraud, and insists that he has the legal title to the land ready to convey according to his undertaking, &c. Appellee's answer. The court below was of opinion that the appellant failed to shew any good cause for relief, and pronounced a decree dismissing his bill with damages, &c. Decree of the circuit court dismissing the bill. The title which the appellee claims to hold, is derived in the following manner, viz.: Appellee's title. Through the will of Alexander Dick, made in the State of Virginia, the twenty-ninth of January, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, devising the whole of his estate, both real and personal to James Mercer in trust, among other things, for the use and benefit of Mary Taliaferro, Charles Champe Talliaferro, and John Fenton Mercer. Alexr. Dick's will. The patent which afterwards, on the 11th of October, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven, issued from the State of Virginia, for the land to James Mercer, in trust for the devisees of Alexander Dick. Patent to Jas. Mercer in trust for Dick's devisees. The will of James Mercer, made also in the State of Virginia, in May, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, devising all his estate, real and personal, to Muscoe Garnett and Benjamin Harrison, in trust for his children, Charles Fenton Mercer, Mary E. D. Mercer and Lucinda Mercer. Jas. Mercer's will. The deed of Charles Taliaferro, John Fenton Mercer and Mary Payton, (late Mary Taliaferro,) by James H. Garnett her attorney in fact, made in the State of New York, in May, 1796, to Robert Patton, Richard Hackley, and John Lee. Deed by the cestui que trust of Dick's will to Patton, Hackley and Lee, under whom appellee claimed title. To trace the title claimed by the appellee down to him, various other deeds would have to be noticed, but as they are all subsequent to May, 1796, and purport to be from either Patton, Hackley or the representatives of Lee, or others claiming under some of them, it can not be important in this contest to bring any of those deeds into particular review unless the title claimed by the appellee through Patton, Hackley and Lee was actually vested in them, by the deed to which we have last referred. We are, however, unable to perceive the process of reasoning by which the title, either legal or equitable, can be ascertained to have been in Patton, Hackley and Lee. The patent which issued from the State of Virginia, though in the name of James Mercer, was not designed and should not be construed to be a grant to him of both the legal and equitable estate of the land in fee simple. The legal title no doubt, became vested in James Mercer in fee, but according to the terms of the patent the title was not to be held by him for his own use and benefit, but in trust for the use of the devisees of Alexander Dick, then deceased, so that whilst the legal title was in James Mercer the equitable or beneficial interest was in Alexander Dick's devisees, in the proportions and subject to the limitations and conditions prescribed in his will. *3 The cestui que trusts of a devise to a trustee can not pass the legal title by their deed. With respect to the legal title, therefore, it is impossible to discern how it can have passed to Patton, Hackley and Lee, by the deed of Charles Taliaferro, John Fenton Mercer and Mary Payton, (late Mary Taliaferro,) which was given in May, 1796; to have passed by that deed, the legal title which had been granted by the State of Virginia to James Mercer, must have come to the vendors named in the deed, but there is in this cause nothing to shew a derivation of title by them from the patentee James Mercer. It is true James Mercer is proved to have died before the deed was made in 1796 to Patton, Hackley and Lee, and although before his death James Mercer, made a will, and devised the land to others in trust for his devisees, yet as the trustees therein named appeared in court and renounced the trust, the legal title must, notwithstanding the will, have descended upon the heirs and representatives of James Mercer. A conveyance by the heirs of James Mercer, therefore, would doubtless pass the title as effectually as if made by him in his lifetime; but to have that effect the conveyance should be made by the whole of his heirs and not a part only; if made by part only, the title of those by whom made would pass by the conveyance, but to pass a perfect title, the whole of the heirs should unite in the conveyance. It is apparent, however, that the deed to Patton, Hackley and Lee, was not made by all the heirs of James Mercer. At the time of his death, James Mercer is proved to have had four children, neither of whom, except John Fenton Mercer, executed the deed. Waving all enquiry as to the authentication of the deed, therefore, it is perfectly clear that, through that deed, Patton, Hackley and Lee can not have derived a legal title to more than one-fourth of the land, and as to the other three-fourths, the title must from anything contained in the record, be presumed to reside in the other heirs of James Mercer, from whom the present appellant has not attempted to derive any title. Trustee may devise the legal title in trust. If the devisee of a trustee renounces the trust the legal title descends to the heirs of the trustee in trust, all of whom must unite to pass the title. Nor are we of opinion that Patton, Hackley and Lee became invested with a complete and perfect equity to the whole land by the deed of 1796. The vendors, Charles Taliaferro, John Fenton Mercer, and Mary Payton, are devisees named in the will of Alexander Dick, to whose use the land was devised to James Mercer, and afterwards patented in his name in trust, so that if the will had prescribed no limitations or conditions upon the use devised to them, and there were ??o available objections to the deed, there would be some reason for maintaining that the entire equity passed by the deed to Patton, Hackley and Lee. But on the part of Mary Payton, (late Mary Taliaferro,) the deed purports to have been made not by her in her proper person, but by her attorney in fact, James H. Garnett. To be effectual to pass her interest in the land, therefore, Garnett must have derived authority from her to make the conveyance, and proof of that authority should have been made in the present case, to enable the court to give effect to the deed. But the record contains no such proof. The only evidence of Garnett's authority consists in a recital of the fact in the deed executed by him; and surely none will contend that the assertion of a person who takes upon himself to act in the capacity of an agent, made by way of recital in the deed which he executes as agent, is legitimate evidence of the fact that he was authorized to do the act. *4 Where a deed of conveyance purports to have been made by attorney the authority must appear; a recital in the deed has no effect. But suppose this objection could be gotten over, and the deed were admitted sufficient to pass all the equity that Mrs. Payton possessed in the land, still it would not follow, that Patton, Hackley and Lee were clothed with the entire and perfect equity to the land. For by the will of Dick, devising the use of one-third of the land to Mary Payton, (then Mary Taliaferro,) it is provided, "that in case she shall marry and have children, the one-third given to her, shall be to her and her heirs in fee-simple, but in case she should have no children, one moiety thereof to go to James Mercer, the trustee in fee-simple, and the other moiety to go to Charles Champe Taliaferro," &c. Now the fact is unquestionably proved that Mary Payton departed this life without having had children, so that even admitting the sufficiency of the deed to pass the interest she then possessed, one moiety of what she derived under the will of Alexander Dick, must afterwards, upon her death, have vested in the heirs and representatives of James Mercer, he having previously departed this life; and the other moiety must also have vested in Charles Champe Taliaferro. It follows, therefore, that upon no principle can the deed to Patton, Hackley and Lee have invested them either with the perfect legal title, or the entire equity; and of course the appellee, claiming through them, can not have a better title or greater equity than was held by them. Where the devise is for use of one for life and in fee, if she have issue when she dies without having had children, the estate she conveyed by her deed is determined. In the preceding remarks our attention has been mainly directed to the documentary evidence of title, contained in the record, and were the contest to turn exclusively upon evidence of that sort, we should have no difficulty in saying that the defendant has not proved himself to be possessed of such a title to the land as enables him to perform his covenant to convey. But the deed to Patton, Hackley and Lee, bears date in 1796, and although the written documents contained in the record may without other evidence be insufficient to prove the title to have come to them, it was contended in argument, that after the lapse of time since that deed was made, everything necessary to supply the apparent defect in their title, should be presumed in support of the possession of the defendant, who claims under them. If in the devise of the use to the vendors in that deed, no conditions or limitations had been imposed by the will of Alexander Dick, and if there had been a continued and uninterrupted possession of the land, by Patton, Hackley and Lee, or those claiming under them, ever since the date of the deed, there would certainly be great plausibility in the argument. The most solemn instruments have been presumed, from great length of possession, and a conveyance from a trustee to the cestui que use entitled to a conveyance has been presumed from a possession of shorter duration. *5 A conveyance from the trustees to cestui que trust may be presumed from length of possession-- But-- But we have seen that by the will of Alexander Dick, the use which was devised to Mary Taliaferro, was not to belong to her in fee-simple unless she should marry and have children, and in case of her dying without children, it was directed to go to others. Were it, therefore, admissible to presume from the length of possession held by those claiming under Patton, Hackley and Lee, that a deed of conveyance had been made to their vendors, by James Mercer, to whom the land was patented in trust, for the use of those vendors, we should be bound to presume that the conveyance made by the trustee, was in conformity to the limitation and conditions imposed by the will of Alexander Dick, upon the use devised to Mary Taliaferro; and as she is proved to have died without issue, after the death of James Mercer, without the aid of a conveyance from the heirs of James Mercer, (to whom upon her death one moiety of the use devised to her is directed by the will of Alexander Dick to go,) to the defendant, he evidently can not have made out a good title to the land in contest. If the cestui que trust had but a life estate unless she had issue and she died childless no such presumption can aid her alienee of the fee.--It can not be presumed the trustee released to the cestui que trust a greater interest than he was entitled to. But here again it may possibly be said that from the length of possession, a conveyance from the heirs of James Mercer should, also be presumed. It should, however, be recollected that the record contains no evidence as to the time Mary Taliaferro died, without which it is impossible to know how long the possession has been since held, so as to enable the court from the fact of continued possession to presume anything favorable to a conveyance from those to whom the interest devised to her passed at her death. Evidence as to the adverse possession. But were there no defect in the proof, as to the time Mary Taliaferro (afterwards Mary Payton), died, still we should be of opinion that the possession proved is not such as to authorize a presumption in favor of a conveyance of the legal title of the land in contest. The possession, instead of having been continued ever since the date of the deed to Patton, Hackley and Lee, is proved not to have been taken of the land in contest until less than twenty years from this time. And without intending to decide what length of possession would create a presumption of title, we can have no hesitation in saying, that any continued possession, short of the time limited, for making entries upon land, can not within itself create a presumption of the title having been conveyed. Not less than 20 years is sufficient to authorize the presumption of a conveyance from trustees. In whatever point of view the question of title is considered, therefore, we are constrained to say, that the defendant has failed to shew an ability to convey the land, sold by him to the complainant; and being unable to convey, though he may have committed no actual fraud in selling; the court below ought to have decreed a perpetual injunction against the judgment at law recovered by him for the sale money, and directed the contract to be cancelled. *6 Vendor who can not make out a title can not have his contract executed, but must rescind however honest he may have acted. The decree of the court below must, consequently, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to that court, and a decree entered in conformity with the principles of this opinion. The appellee moved the court for a re-hearing on the following: PETITION FOR A RE-HEARING BY J. J. CRITTENDEN, ESQ. The counsel for appellee ventures, with great deference, to suggest to the court, that in the opinion delivered in this case, there is some little inaccuracy in the statement of facts, and, as he humbly conceives, some error in the conclusions of law. Inaccuracies and errors scarcely to be avoided in a case so perplexed without the most laboured and minute investigation. The opinion of the court in the recital of the will of James Mercer takes no notice of, but entirely omits, the name of John F. Mercer, and the devise to him. The fact thus omitted is one of primary importance in the case. There is this other inaccuracy in the statement of the case by the court, and it may not be altogether unimportant. In the opinion of the court, it is stated that the patent for the land in question, was issued to James Mercer, "in trust for the devisees of Alexander Dick." The patent upon its face is expressed to be to "James Mercer as devisee and trustee of Alexander Dick." The court "is unable to perceive the process of reasoning, by which the title either legal or equitable can be ascertained to have been in Patton, Hackley and Lee, by virtue of the deed of conveyance made to them by Mary Payton, (by an agent,) John F. Mercer and Charles C. Taliaferro." And for this defect of title, as the appellee claims under Patton, Hackley and Lee, the court has decreed that the sale made by the appellee to the appellant should be cancelled. The counsel for the appellee is strongly persuaded that by that deed, both the legal and equitable title was vested in Patton, Hackley and Lee. By the patent to James Mercer, he was vested with the legal title to the land in question; by his will made in 1791, after a devise of his whole estate to Garnett and Harrison in trust for the use of his children, &c. he devises the land in question to his son John F. Mercer, by the residuary clause thereof. And upon their refusal and renunciation of the trust, the legal title, which would otherwise have vested in Garnett and Harrison, passed to the devisees respectively, for the portions of the estate devised to them severally; each one holding the part devised to him, subject to the payment of the debts and legacies charged upon it. The legal title, and the beneficial interest became united in the same persons, and unless they can be considered as holding in trust by themselves, each must be considered as holding by a perfect title to whatever was given to him by the will. And the estate of the testator will pass precisely as if there had been no devise to trustees. This construction does not at all affect the rights of parties under the will, nor the power of a court of chancery to effectuate the purposes and objects which the testator intended to accomplish by means of the trust. Nor is it conceived that this power of a court of chancery in any degree conflicts with the opinion, that upon the renunciation of the trust by the trustees, the title passes by the will as if there had been no devise to trustees. The idea, that the legal title and the use, can be vested at the same time, and in the same parties, and yet remain distinct and separate, is believed to be incompatible with the rules of law; they will, no doubt, continue to hold the estate subject to all the incumbencies and charges imposed on it, and which were intended to be secured and effected, by the separation of the legal and equitable title, but whenever they meet in the same person or persons, the title is complete, and the use becomes executed to the full extent of each party's right. If this be correct, upon the renunciation of the trustees, John F. Mercer became legally entitled, or rather was vested with the legal title to the land in question which was devised to him as before stated by the residuary clause of the patentee's, James Mercer's, will. And if so, the legal title undoubtedly passed to Patton, Hackley and Lee by the deed in which the said John F. Mercer was one of the grantors. *7 But the counsel for the appellee does still more confidently believe that the entire equitable title passed to said Patton, Hackley and Lee by virtue of said deed. According to the opinion of the court, James Mercer held the legal title, for the use of Charles C. Taliaferro, John Fenton Mercer and Mary Taliaferro. They were entitled to the whole equitable interest, subject to this limitation as to Mary's interest, that if she died without marrying and having children, it should pass to the said Jas. Mercer and Charles C. Taliaferro. By the will of James Mercer, he undoubtedly passed all his equitable rights and interests, whether in possession or remainder, to the land in question to John F. Mercer; and the said J. F. Mercer was thereby equitably entitled to his father's remainder in Mary Taliaferro's interest, whenever the contingency should happen upon which it was to vest. If he took any equitable interest, even under his father's will, he took this. It can not be pretended that this possible or contingent interest was not deviseable, nor that the words of James Mercer's will, are not broad and comprehensive enough to embrace it. After the death of James Mercer, which happened before 1796, the whole equitable interest in the land in question, both present and future, was vested in Charles C. Taliaferro, Mary Taliaferro, and John F. Mercer; the said Charles and John being entitled to the share of Mary, in the event of dying without a child. And in this situation of the estate all three of them in the year 1786, (the said Mary by her agent, as the deed recites,) joined in a conveyance of the land to Patton, Hackley and Lee. The deed was executed without authority from Mary; she afterwards, as it is admitted, died without a child, and her portion or interest, according to the devises and limitations in the wills of Alexander Dick and James Mercer passed to Chas. C. Taliaferro and John F. Mercer. And surely their deed, considering it as unexecuted by Mary Taliaferro, otherwise Mary Peyton, passed to Patton, Hackley and Lee, all the interest, either present or future, which they then had to the land in question. And when upon the death of Mary, which happened after the date of the deed, her interest devolved upon Chas. C. Taliaferro and John F. Mercer, it must certainly be considered as enuring to the confirmation of their deed and to the benefit of their alienees, Patton, Hackley and Lee, in whom by this clear process, all the scattered lines of this equity became concentrated. And if this be so, who after such a lapse of time, after the long possession can question their title? It is said to be defective, but who can impeach or disturb it? Can the creditors or legatees of James Mercer? Would they be heard to set up any pretensions after a lapse of now about thirty-five years since his death? Would the heirs of James Mercer be permitted to disturb it? And upon what grounds? John F. Mercer, one of them would be estopped by his deed; and as for the other heirs, holding, if anything, a mere barren title in trust for him, after payment of debts and legacies, upon what pretext could they assert any right, or contest the title of the appellee? The debts and legacies must all be presumed to have been long ago paid, or are barred by the length of time, and the trustees could, therefore, have no pretext for setting up any claim. If Charles C. Taliaferro and John F. Mercer were now alive and in the possession and enjoyment of the estate could the other heirs of James Mercer recover in ejectment against them, even supposing those heirs originally took the legal title and held it as trustees for the same purposes that the renouncing trustees and executors of James Mercer would have held it? It is believed they could not recover in such a case; that after such length of time, and the irresistible presumption that all the purposes of the trust were fulfilled, the law would infer and presume a surrender of the legal right. *8 Inferences and presumptions which are indulged in, not so much on account of the intrinsic probability of their truth, as because the policy and peace of society requires that they should be indulged. But if not prevented from a recovery by the presumption of a surrender of the legal title, would a court of equity ever permit them to enforce such a recovery? Certainly it would not, unless it were for the purpose of carrying into effect some of the provisions of James Mercer's will, for the payment of debts and legacies; and we consider it incontestable that it is by far too late now, to set up or assert any claim to such debts or legacies. If neither the heirs, creditors or legatees of Jas. Mercer could successfully question the title, who else stands in an attitude to do it? A mere stranger could not surely set up, after such a lapse of time, the antiquated and barren title of the heirs of James Mercer, or the stale claims of his satisfied and uncomplaining creditors and legatees, to bar any ejectment that might be brought, founded upon the title of J. F. Mercer and Chas. C. Taliaferro. All the presumptions which could be indulged in their favor, if they were in possession, ought to be more freely and forcibly indulged in favor of bona fide and innocent purchasers from them. If there be none who could successfully question the title of the appellant, ought he to be permitted to question it, and to bring into controversy with his vendor, a title in his hands unquestioned, and unquestionable by all the world besides, and to evade his fair contract of purchase, upon the mere ground of some defect discoverable in a mere abstract view of the evidences of title, but which defect can never endanger the loss of the land, or be made to operate to the prejudice of the appellee? There has been a continued possession under the title of Patton, Hackley and Lee, from the year 1804, down to the present time, as appears from the testimony in the case. A conveyance from trustees may be presumed in much less than 20 years; as where trustees are directed to convey, &c., for as it was the duty of the trustees to convey, to which they might have been compelled by a court of equity, it ought to be presumed that they had done their duty. Syburn v. Slade, 4 Term Rep., 682, 11 John. Rep., 456. On the same principle that what ought to have been done shall be presumed to have been done, a reconveyance of the legal estate may be presumed after a length of time, and when the purpose for which it was conveyed has been answered. Hillary v. Waller, 12 Ves. Jr. 239. Upon this view of the subject, the counsel of the appellee is thoroughly persuaded, indeed his mind can not resist the conviction, that by the deed of 1796 to Patton, Hackley and Lee, they were invested with both the legal, and the entire equitable title to the land in question: and he flatters himself that the court will upon mature consideration concur in these opinions, and find sufficient reason for changing the decision which has been rendered. He, therefore, with the most respectful confidence, solicits a re-hearing and reconsideration of the cause. *9 The few moments, which the expected adjournment of the court, has left for the preparation of this petition, will be regarded, it is hoped as some apology for its acknowledged imperfections, and particularly for its being unaccompanied with any citation of authorities. The counsel of the appellant presented the following: REPLY TO THE PETITION FOR A RE-HEARING, BY R. WICKLIFFE, ESQ. The counsel of the appellant has examined the petition of the appellee, and the opinion delivered by the court, and begs leave to suggest, that the petition seems in its character and object, to importune a revision of the opinion, upon the ground of a supposed misstatement of immaterial facts, rather than upon the plea that substantial error is perceivable in the decree, or of injustice upon the merits. For, suppose the fact to be as stated in the petition, still the seller shews no title. He does not prove his papers or any one of them to be executed, and none of them are duly recorded, and it can not be material what estate J. F. Mercer had, unless it is shewn that John F. Mercer has conveyed. But it is conceived that the petition proceeds upon an utter mistake. It is possible that the court might, by construction, consider J. F. Mercer residuary legatee by the first will, and as such, as trustee by devise of Alexander Dick's will; but take the whole of the will, and even in this state of the case the construction would be a forced one. 1st. Because in creating the trust, Dick uses no words of perpetuity and the whole will shews that it was his intention to make the trust estate terminate with the life of Mercer. 2dly. It is most obvious, that Mercer considered himself on his first will, intestate as to the trust estate, and that he had neither devised it to his children nor to his executors, and to remedy this, he added the first codicil, in which he devised the trust estate to his executors. As this is the last will, it is not necessary to discuss the question, what estate John F. Mercer took in the first devise. If the trust estate was not devised, then the whole argument of the petition falls. If it were devised, then the codicil revoked the residuary devise pro tanto, by devising the trust to the executors. This last will shews that he could never intend, that John who was then an infant, and whom he had refused the use of his share, and the management of his estate, until he was twenty-four years of age, should execute the trust under Dick's will, and the authorities shew that on the trustees' refusal, the specific devise of the trust, must devolve upon the heirs. The pretence for presuming title, or time, has been met by the court--in the absence of title papers they can be presumed to be correct, but the defendant shows his hand, and his papers on their face, are defective. On consideration, the court overruled the motion, and to that effect-- APRIL 11. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE ADDITIONAL OPINION OF THE COURT. *10 The petition of the counsel of the appellee for a re-hearing of this case has had the attention of the court, and the opinion formerly delivered, has been re-examined, and the result thereof approved. The only point about which any doubt is entertained, relates to the equitable right which by that opinion was decided not to be perfect in the appellee; but, after the most mature consideration, we are fully satisfied that the legal title is not shewn to be in him, and without the legal title, whatever may be his equity, it is perfectly clear that the appellee is unable to perform his part of the contract. The appellant contracted for the legal title, had a right to insist upon having such a title, and can not be compelled by a court of equity to accept of a conveyance of the mere equity. The aid of the court may be had to enforce specifically, contracts fairly made, but it is not competent for the court to make new contracts for the parties, or alter or change the stipulations of such as the parties have made. If vendor has not the legal title he contracted to convey whatever may be his equity, vendee may rescind. In hard cases on vendor, vendee may be compelled to accept the title, if it be exhibited on the hearing, though obtained after it was to have been conveyed.___And even where the title is still held by another, the vendee may be compelled to accept it, provided such holder is before the court, and the title as contracted for, can be secured.--But the purchaser can never be compelled to accept any equity. The purchaser in cases of peculiar hardship on the seller, may be decreed to accept such a title as he contracted for, if on the hearing, the court discovers that the seller is able to make the title, though the title was obtained after the time which, by his undertaking it should have been conveyed; and it might not be improper under particular circumstances for the purchaser to be compelled to accept the title, even where, upon the hearing, the seller appears not to have the title, provided that the person holding the title is before the court, so as to enable the court to judge of the goodness of the title, and to secure to the purchaser, such a title as he contracted for. But the title which the purchaser will be decreed to accept, must always be such as he contracted for; and he should never under a contract for the legal title be compelled to take a conveyance of the equity only. Were we therefore to concede, that the appellee is shewn to be invested with the equitable right to the land, he would nevertheless, in consequence of the lack of the legal title, be unable to fulfil his contract with the appellant; and being unable to make a good title, the appellant was at liberty to refuse, and it was incompetent for the court to compel him to accept a conveyance. The petition is therefore overruled. Ky.App. 1826. Waggener v. Waggener 3 T.B.Mon. 542, 19 Ky. 542, 1826 WL 1340 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
