(Cite as: 4 Bibb 192,  7 Ky. 192 (Ky.),  1815 WL 718 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Smith, etc. v. Dedman. Oct. 9, 1815. *1 Upon an inquisition of forcible entry and detainer, the force is the subject of inquiry, and the defendant cannot give evidence of a right of entry--Hawkins' P. C. vol. 1. p. 282, sec. 33. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 12(1) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k12 Defenses 179k12(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases In a suit for forcible entry and detainer, the force is the subject of injury, and evidence to prove the right of possession is inadmissible. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. DEDMAN, according to the act of 1809 regulating proceedings in cases of forcible entries or detainers, sued out from a justice of the peace a warrant for a forcible entry and detainer against Smith and Ferguson. The jury on the inquest found Smith etc., guilty of the forcible entry and detainer; and they by a traverse brought the cause before the Montgomery Circuit Court. Dedman, after joining issue to the traverse, upon motion obtained an order of the Court discharging the traverse, and also a judgment of restitution. From which judgment Smith and Ferguson appealed to this Court, where the judgment of that Court in awarding restitution was reversed, the order discharging the traverse set aside, and a trial directed to be had on the issue joined. The cause having returned to the Circuit Court, a trial was accordingly there had on the issue, and a verdict found in favor of Dedman, and restitution again awarded against Smith and Ferguson; to reverse which judgment they have again appealed to this Court. By the assignment of errors various objections are taken. Such of them, however, as question the regularity of the proceedings prior to the joining of the issue to the traverse, will not be noticed or inquired into in determining the present contest. Those objections were presented for consideration when this cause was formerly before this Court; and although they were not then taken up in detail and discussed in the former opinion which was then delivered, they did not escape the attention of the Court, but were considered as being overruled by the order then made directing the proceedings again to commence in the Court below by proceeding to try the issue joined to the traverse. On the trial of the issue Smith and Ferguson were prevented by the opinion of that Court from going into evidence for the purpose of proving a right of entry in the land; and whether such evidence was or was not admissible, is the only inquiry presented for determination in this cause. That it was not admissible, we have no doubt. The right of entry can in no possible point of view be involved in the issue. Smith and Ferguson may have had the right of entry, and yet have been guilty of a forcible entry, for which restitution should be awarded; for the act under which these proceedings appear to have been had, expressly interdicts every forcible entry, whether with or without right; and provides in all such cases for the restitution. The object of the act appears peculiarly to have been to guard the possession against every description of force, and to compel the person having right, to resort to the authority of law to obtain the possession. *2 Whether, therefore, the complaining party was possessed of the premises in fact, and whether that possession was disturbed by a forcible entry and forcibly detained, were the only injuries proper before the jury; and the Court properly rejected the evidence attempted to be produced as to the right. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Smith v. Dedman 4 Bibb 192, 7 Ky. 192, 1815 WL 718 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
