(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 172,  8 Ky. 172 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1287 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thomas Dean v. John Tygert. Apr. 9, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF WASHINGTON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 68 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak68 k. Notice of taking. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k56(4)  Depositions) Five days' notice of taking a deposition 83 miles off is, prima facie, reasonable. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 74 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak74 k. Making and requisites of deposition, return  or certificate. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 122k76  Depositions) If a dedimus issues to take a deposition out of the state, and is directed to certain persons styling them justices of the peace, and the deposition appears to have been taken by those persons, no further proof is necessary of their being magistrates. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment rendered against the appellant in an action for slanderous words brought against him by the appellee. The case turns in this court upon the correctness of the opinion of the court below in overruling the appellant's objections taken to a deposition introduced as evidence by the appellee. The deposition was taken out of the state, and was objected to, 1st, on the ground of the persons before whom it was taken, not being shewn to be justices of the peace; and 2dly, on account of the unreasonableness of the notice given the appellant of the time of taking the deposition. If a dedimus issues to take a deposition out of the state and is directed eo nomine to persons styling them justices of the peace, and the deposition appears to have been taken before those persons no?? farther proof is necessary of their being magistrates. Five days' notice of taking a deposition 83 miles off, is prima facie reasonable. With respect to the first objection, we are perfectly satisfied, that the certificate of the persons before whom the deposition was taken, sufficiently shew them to be justices of the peace. It does not, it is true, expressly state them to be justices, but as by the caption of the deposition, it purports to be taken by persons to whom a dedimus had issued for that purpose, and as by the dedimus those persons taking the deposition, are described to be justices of the peace, there can not be a doubt but that these circumstances, under the act of this country for that purpose, are sufficient to shew that the persons by whom the deposition is certified to have been taken, are justices of the peace. As to the other objection, we are of opinion there is nothing in the cause calculated to shew the notice unreasonable. For as the appellant is shewn to reside not more than about 83 miles from the place where the deposition was taken, five days' notice, prima facie, afforded him a reasonable opportunity of attending; and although he seems to have given the appellee a previous notice to take depositions, yet as the time named in that notice was six days subsequent to the time of taking the appellee's deposition; and as the appellant's deposition was to be taken not more than about 33 miles from his residence, the circumstance of his having given the first notice under these circumstances, can not furnish any just objection to the notice of the appellee. *2 The judgment must be affirmed with cost and damages. Wickliffe, for appellant; B. Hardin, for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Dean v. Tygert 1 A.K.Marsh. 172, 8 Ky. 172, 1818 WL 1287 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
