(Cite as: 4 Bibb 168,  7 Ky. 168 (Ky.),  1815 WL 706 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bush v. Craig. Oct. 3, 1815. *1 A Court of Chancery may order a new trial of an action at law. But this ought not to be done where the failure of the applicant to defend at law is not satisfactorily accounted for. Nor where he applied there for a new trial, and was refused. In the latter case his remedy was by bill of exceptions and writ of error. Where a bill is framed merely for the purpose of obtaining a new trial, and it is ordered accordingly, and upon the second trial had, a bill of exceptions is taken to the opinion of the Court in overruling a motion for a new trial, the chancellor ought not upon the former bill to set aside the second verdict. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 407(1) 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k407 Existence of or Resort to Other  Remedy 228k407(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A., to be relieved against a judgment at law to which he made no defense, exhibited his bill, and obtained a decree for a new trial;  but no decree was made as to costs. Another verdict was rendered against A., who moved for a new trial, which was refused, and judgment was entered against him.  A. then applied to the equity court, without any other bill being filed, and obtained an injunction, which was subsequently dissolved, and B., the plaintiff at law, decreed to pay the costs of the chancery suit.  A. appealed.  Held that, when the second trial at law was had, A., if dissatisfied with the judgment, should have pursued his remedy as at law, and that an injunction should not have been granted to him. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. CRAIG brought a suit at law against Bush, for trover and conversion of a negro woman; and Bush failing to plead to the action, Craig obtained judgment by nihil dicit; and upon the execution of a writ of inquiry, recovered a judgment of $500, damages and costs. Bush, to be relieved against this judgment, and obtain a new trial in the action at law, exhibited his bill in chancery, alleging his right to the negro, and setting forth various reasons why he made no defense to the action at law, and suggesting the cause of his failure to apply to the Court of Law for a new trial. Craig answered the bill; and the cause being regularly prepared for trial, the Court decreed a new trial to be had in the action at law, but made no decree as to costs, nor any farther order as to the final disposition of the cause. Subsequent to this the action at law was reinstated, and upon the motion of Bush the writ of inquiry was set aside and the general issue pleaded; and issue being joined thereto, a new trial was had, and a verdict of $400 again obtained by Craig. Bush then moved the Court at Law for a new trial, but his motion being overruled, exceptions were taken to the opinion of the Court, and the evidence given on the trial made part of the record, and judgment was accordingly entered in favor of Craig on the verdict of the jury. Bush then applied to the Court of Chancery, without any other bill being filed, and obtained an injunction to the judgment at law; and at a subsequent term, the Court dissolved the injunction and decreed Craig to pay the costs of the suit in chancery. From this decree Bush has appealed to this Court. *2 We have not thought it proper or material to inquire whether the evidence given on the last trial at law justifies the verdict of the jury: for if it does not, Bush's remedy is by writ of error to the judgment entered on that verdict, and not by an appeal from the opinion of the Court of Chancery in refusing to correct that finding. The bill of Bush was clearly framed not for ultimate and final relief upon equitable circumstances growing out of the subject matter of contest, but to be relieved from the effect of intervening circumstances which prevented his making defense on the first trial. That Courts of Chancery may in certain cases grant such relief, will not be denied; but when they interpose for that purpose, it seems that the demands of justice are satisfied by restoring the complaining party to the situation he would have occupied had those circumstances not occurred, and he been permitted to make full defense at law. It is plain the matter in contest is cognizable, and might have been fully and finally tried in a Court of Law, and that equity could not have taken jurisdiction of the cause after a trial at law, but for the suggestions in the bill accounting for the failure of Bush in making application to that Court for a new trial: for it is settled, that where a party applies for a new trial to a Court of Law and it is refused, or where he might have so applied and through negligence fails, equity will not interpose. It was then for the purpose of obtaining a new trial in the action at law Bush's bill was exhibited, and to effect that object the Court took cognizance of the case; and for that purpose it is evident that Court had full power, by awarding a final injunction upon the judgment which was sought to be set aside, unless Craig would consent to a second trial at law. But whenever a new trial was ordered by the Court and consented to by Craig, and the former judgment set aside, the cause for which equity assumed jurisdiction was removed, the object of the bill was satisfied, and the parties compelled to pursue their rights at law as though no suit in equity had ever been prosecuted. This is not like the case of an issue at law directed out of chancery for the pupose of satisfying the chancellor on some fact in relation to a matter in controversy over which he has original and exclusive jurisdiction. There, as the subject matter gives the jurisdiction, the chancellor retains it until the contest is finally settled; and if the issue is not found according to his opinion of what is right, he may award a second inquest. But here, the subject matter is cognizable at law, and the chancellor assumed cognizance of the cause not for the purpose of finally determining the subject matter of contest, but to reinstate the cause before that tribunal which was competent to a final determination. When, therefore, a new trial was ordered, and consented to by Craig, the cause reinstated at law and a second trial there had, if the decision was not then satisfactory to Bush, he should pursue his remedy as at law; and the Court of Chancery consequently did wrong, at his instance again to grant an injunction, and determined correctly at a subsequent term in dissolving it. *3 The decree must therefore be affirmed with costs and damages upon the damages given in that Court. Ky.App. 1815. Bush v. Craig 4 Bibb 168, 7 Ky. 168, 1815 WL 706 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
