(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 88,  17 Ky. 88 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1493 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Crutchers v. Wolf. Oct. 12, 1824. *1 Consideration, Equity, Specific Execution. ERROR TO THE HARDIN CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 405 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k405 k. Right to Relief in General. Most Cited  Cases A. and B. being liable on their covenant with C., the latter agreed with A. to look to B. for one-half of the amount which might be recovered, provided no defense were made to the action. No defense was made;  but A., instead of paying one-half the judgment, replevied it.  Held, that A. could not have relief in equity against any part of it. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. In pursuance to an agreement made between the Crutchers, of the one part, and Wolf and Hoover, of the other part, the latter received from the former ninety dollars in hand, and executed a covenant binding themselves jointly to transport two wagon loads of merchandise from the steamboat General Clark, near the mouth of Cumberland river, to Elizabethtown, in Hardin county. The merchandise was not transported, and an action was brought by the Crutchers, upon the covenant, against both Wolf and Hoover, and damages to the amount of ninety-nine dollars, and costs, were finally recovered by the Crutchers. Upon this judgment an execution issued against the estate of Wolf and Hoover, and the debt was ultimately replevied by Wolf only. To be relieved from the payment of the whole of this judgment, except forty dollars and a moiety of the costs, Wolf exhibited his bill in equity, with injunction. He states, that but forty dollars of the ninety paid by the Crutchers upon the agreement, were received by him, and the residue by Hoover; that when the covenant was executed, he did not understand it to impose upon him any obligation to transport but one wagon load of the merchandise, and that knowing such was his understanding, and being conscious he ought not in justice to pay more than he had received, the Crutchers, after having commenced their action upon the covenant, agreed to look to Hoover for his proportion of the amount which might be recovered in that action, provided no defence was made, and executed their writing with a stipulation to that effect. He also charges, that in pursuance to that agreement, no defence was made to the action, and judgment for the amount of $99 and costs was recovered, and that not regarded their agreement, the Crutchers are now endeavoring to make the entire amount out of his estate, and by the coercive process of the law, have compelled him to replevy the same, &c. The bill. The Crutchers admit the execution of the writing, referred to by the bill, and charge, that when the execution was delivered to the sheriff, they instructed that officer to return the same, provided a moiety was paid by Wolf; but they allege, that instead of paying his proportion, Wolf has replevied the entire judgment, and thereby precluded them from proceeding upon the judgment against Hoover; and hence, they insist that the bill ought to be dismissed, and the injunction dissolved, &c. *2 The answer. Plaintiffs in covenant agreed in writing with one defendant, if he would not defend they would look to the other defendant for his part of the judgment; he had, in fact, no defence, did not defend, and judgment is rendered against both, which this defendant only replevies; a court of equity can not relieve him against any part. The court below, decreed the injunction perpetual, ??for all the judgment except forty dollars, and a moiety ??for the costs at law. To reverse that decree the Crutchers have prosecuted this writ of error. The cause was heard and the decree pronounced by ??the circuit court upon the bill, answer and exhibits, ??without any depositions on either side. It will, therefore, at the first glance be perceived, that the correct??ess of the decree must turn upon the propriety of a ??ourt of equity interposing in favor of Wolf, after his ??aving replevied the whole judgment in consequence of ??he Crutchers, during the pendency of the action at ??aw, having covenanted "to look to Hoover for his part ??f the judgment." Were it necessary to a decision of the present con??est, it might be deserving consideration, whether or ??ot from the allegations contained in the bill and an??wer, the covenant alluded to could be adjudged to have ??een given upon such a consideration as to authorize, under any circumstances, the interposition of a court of equity, against the judgment at law; for the action at law appears to have been brought upon the joint obligation of both Wolf and Hoover, and though in his bill?? Wolf alleges, that at the time of executing that obligation, he did not understand he was bound for the transportation of both loads of merchandise, the obligation is otherwise, and the Crutchers allege in their answer that it was drawn in conformity to the agreement of the parties; so that it might well be doubted whether, combined with such circumstances, the agreement of Wolf?? and Hoover, or either of them, not to defend the action?? at law, form such a consideration for the covenant of the Crutchers, to look to Hoover for his part of the judgment, as to justify the enforcement of that cove??nant by a court of equity. 1st. Because the defendant having no defence to the action at law, it is questionable whether the plaintiff's covenant was on such consideration as to justify its enforcement in equity, under any circumstances. But passing by the question of consideration, as unimportant, in the case now under consideration, we apprehend, there are other objections to the decree, no?? to be surmounted. 2d. Because by the replevy of the judgment, no execution could issue on it, and an injunction of any part of the replevin bond, would be a total loss to the plaintiffs of that sum, and equity will not interfere to do such injustice. If the decree be sustained, the consequence must in?? evitably be a loss to the Crutchers, of the amount en??joined. Since the replevy, no proceedings can be ha?? upon the original judgment; and as the replevy was?? by Wolf only, a perpetual injunction against proceeding?? as to him, would preclude any recourse against Hoover?? When, therefore consequences like these would flow?? from a decree perpetuating the injunction, it would evi??dently be more consistent with the general principle?? by which courts of equity are governed, not to inter?? pose, and leave Wolf to his remedy at law, upon th?? covenant of the Crutchers. *3 Indeed, it is not so clear that such would not be th?? proper decree, if, instead of replevying the judgment Wolf had paid his proportion and applied to equity?? to be relieved against the residue; for his case would?? then be that of a complainant seeking the aid of a cour?? of equity to enforce, contrary to the general rule b?? which that court is governed, the specific execution o?? a contract, in relation to a chattel interest, and for ?? breach of which, adequate remedy is afforded at law?? But be that as it may, since, by replevying the entir?? judgment, Wolf has deprived the Crutchers of any rem?? edy upon the judgment against Hoover for his propor??tion of the judgment, it would be palpably iniquitous t?? ??stain his claim and perpetuate the injunction against ??y part of the judgment at law. 3d. Because, even had the defendant paid half the judgment, it is not so clear that an injunction of the residue could be granted; for it would be a specific execution of a contract in relation to a chattel interest. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, ??e cause remanded to the court below, and the bill of ??olf dismissed, and the injunction dissolved with dam??ges and costs. Haggin and Huston, for plaintiffs. Ky.App. 1824. Crutchers v. Wolf 1 T.B.Mon. 88, 17 Ky. 88, 1824 WL 1493 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
