(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 360,  8 Ky. 360 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1409 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Green Clay v. Thomas Moseley. Nov. 26, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Partition 288 k 95 288 Partition 288II Actions for Partition 288II(B) Proceedings and Relief 288k95 k. Final Judgment or Decree for Actual Partition,  and Enforcement Thereof. Most Cited Cases In partition of the land of R., under the act regulating the conveyance and division of lands, the commissioners appointed by the county court conveyed a portion of the land to one who produced a bond from T. Held, in ejectment, that no title passed thereby. Appeal and Error 30 k 705 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(M) Questions Presented for Review 30k705 k. Amount of Recovery or Extent of Relief. Most Cited  Cases If the judgment in ejectment follows the verdict, and nothing appears in the record to show for how much the plaintiffs showed title, the defendant cannot allege that the judgment was for too much. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment rendered against Clay in an action of ejectment, brought against him by Mosely in the court below. Two questions are made by the assignment of errors: 1. It is contended that the court below erred in instructing the jury, that nothing passed by the deed of the commissioners to Clay. And 2. That the court erred in giving judgment for more than Mosely shewed title to. The deed, which was decided by the court to have passed nothing to Clay, purports to have been executed by commissioners appointed under the act regulating the conveyance and division of lands, and the instructions appear to have been given by the court after the introduction of evidence by Mosely, tending to shew that two of the heirs of Robert Mosely, to whom the land was patented, resided in this country at the date of the deed; and it is contended, that if, assuming the facts which the evidence conduced to prove, to be true, and the deed be admitted not to have been regularly given, yet it is urged that the court, by instructing the jury absolutely that nothing passed by the deed, improperly took upon itself the decision of the fact as well as of the law, and for that cause it is insisted the judgment should be set aside. Admitting the impropriety of courts, by their instructions, withdrawing from juries the trial of facts, yet, we are nevertheless unable to perceive any solid objections to the instructions complained of in the present case. There is no doubt but that it was competent for the court to decide upon the legal operation of the deed, and had it been applied to before the introduction of the evidence which it is contended the court ought not to have decided upon, the deed should, most clearly, have been held inoperative. A deed from commissioners appointed under the act for dividing lands, is inoperative, unless founded on a writing from him holding the title. *2 For, although county courts are authorized to appoint commissioners for the purpose of conveying land in certain cases, it is perfectly clear that Clay altogether failed to shew that the conveyance obtained by him, is one of the character provided for by the law on that subject. The bond exhibited by Clay on Thomas Moseley, certainly cannot have authorized the commissioners to convey the land of Robert Mosely; and the affidavit of Clay stating he was the locator of the land, as it does not even tend to shew that he held a bond or other writing upon Robert Mosely, if otherwise competent, it most clearly fails to exhibit a claim manifested by such evidence of right, as to authorize a conveyance in the mode Clay's deed was obtained. That fact not appearing, it was correct to instruct the jury that nothing passed by the deed. If, then, Clay shewed no claim which can have authorized the deed from the commissioners, although evidence may have been introduced by Mosely, yet as it conduced in no wise to prove such a claim, the court can not have erred in their instructions to the jury. And with respect to the second question, it need only be remarked, that the judgment regularly pursues the verdict of the jury, for eight-elevenths of the land described by the jury in their finding, and as there was no application for a new trial, and the extent of Mosely's right to recover was in no other form presented for the decision of the court below, the judgment of that court must be affirmed with cost. If the judgment pursues the verdict, the defendant can not allege that the judgment was for too much, nothing appearing in the record to show for how much the plaintiffs shewed title. Bibb for appellant, Wickliffe for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Clay v. Moseley 1 A.K.Marsh. 360, 8 Ky. 360, 1818 WL 1409 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
