(Cite as: 3 Bibb 353,  6 Ky. 353 (Ky.),  1814 WL 788 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Voorhies v. Instone and M'Kim. Jul. 7, 1814. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 246 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k246 k. Nature of Lien in General. Most Cited  Cases The vendor of real estate has an equitable lien on the land sold for the payment of the purchase money, if he has taken no security for its payment. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 265(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k262 Transfer of Property by Purchaser 400k265 Rights and Liabilities of Subsequent  Purchasers 400k265(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A purchaser of land, with notice of a former vendor's lien for the purchase money of the land, takes it subject to that lien. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 INSTONE purchased from Peyton Short a mill on South Elkhorn, paid part of the consideration, and executed a mortgage on the mill to secure the payment of the residue. He then sold the mill to Edwards, for which Edwards was to convey an undivided third of a mill purchased by him from Pemberton, as a part of the price; and to secure Instone in the price stipulated to be paid, Edwards executed a mortgage on the mill purchased by him. Pemberton sold to Edwards 1/3 of a tract of land; the purchase money being unpaid. Edwards exchanged this tract with Instone for a mill; this mill Instone had purchased of Short, had mortgaged it to Short for the purchase money, and Edwards also executed a mortgage to Instone upon the mill for payment of a sum of money contracted to be paid by Edwards to Instone, over and above the property given in exchange. Edwards to induce Pemberton to convey to Instone, gave to Pembert'n a bond on B, stipulating that if the bond was not paid, Pembert'n sho'ld return the bond, and Edwards, should convey to him one third of the mill Edwards had purchased of Instone, whereupon Pemberton, conveyed to Instone, who conveyed to M'Kim. The bond not being paid, and Edwards being unable to convey the mill purchased of Instone by reason of Edwards' mortgage to Instone, and of Instone??s mortgage to Short, Pemberton sold the whole tract to Voorhies, and Voorhies now insists that he has a lien on the land sold by Pemberton to Edwards for payment of the purchase money. Resolved, That a vendor who takes no security for the purchase money, has a lien on the land sold for the payment. That purchasers with notice of this equitable lien take the land subject to it. But that Instone who had not notice does not take the land subject to such a lien in the hands of Voorhies. After this, Pemberton conveyed the undivided third part of the mill sold by him to Edwards, to Instone, who some time thereafter sold and conveyed the same to M'Kim. Pemberton, when he conveyed to Instone, not having received the full payment of the consideration from Edwards, thereafter sold and transferred all his right, title and interest in the debt and mill to Voorhies, who having obtained the possession, refused to permit M'Kim to enjoy any part thereof. To obtain the possession of the one third of the mill, M'Kim prosecuted an ejectment in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Kentucky district and recovered a judgment therefor. Voorhies then exhibited his bill in chancery against Instone, M'Kim, Edwards and Pemberton, to subject the third part of the mill to the payment of the consideration remaining due from Edwards, alleging Instone and M'Kim, when they obtained titles, had full knowledge of the consideration remaining due, and insisting on equitable lien on the land in their hands for the purpose of satisfying the demand. Instone and M'Kim by their answers deny notice, and put Voorhies on the proof of the various allegations in his bill. *2 The Court below on a final hearing dismissed Voorhies' bill, from which he has appealed to this Court. It has heretofore been held, and may now be considered the settled doctrine of the Court, that where a vendor takes no other security from the vendee, he retains an equitable lien on the land in the hands of the vendee, whether a conveyance has been made or not, for the consideration remaining unpaid. For if the vendee receives a title without having made payment by an equitable construction a trust results to the vendor, and the vendee is considered as holding the land subject to the trust. As, therefore, the vendor has an equity attaching to the land in the hands of the vendee, for the purpose of satisfying the consideration agreed to be given, it clearly follows that purchasers with notice of that equity, will likewise take the land subject to it. We have been unable, however, to find any case where a lien has been held to exist on lands in favor of a vendor, where he has conveyed to a purchaser of his vendee for a valuable consideration. In such a case it is evident the same reasons for the existence of a lien do not apply as in the case before mentioned of a conveyance to the vendee. In that case the person to whom the title is made, has not paid the full consideration; but in the latter case he has. In that case no injury can accrue to the vendee by making the land liable to the consideration stipulated by him to be paid; but in the latter case, as the purchaser of the vendee has paid the full price for the land, by creating a lien in favor of the vendor he would be subject to a double payment. It is not necessary, however, to a determination of this cause, and we would not be understood as having decided whether or not in such a case a lien exists. For it is clear, to make the land subject to Voorhies' demand, it must be shown that Instone and M'Kim had notice before they obtained their titles. And if Instone had notice before he received his title, under the circumstances of this case, he is liable, even if on general principles in such a case a lien does not attach: for it appears Pemberton was induced to convey to Instone in consequence of an assignment made by Edwards to him of Bastrop's bond, as part of the consideration, and upon condition that if Pemberton should not receive payment from Bastrop, he was not to sue, but return the bond, and Edwards to convey the one third of the mill by him purchased from Instone; and it also appears that Pemberton has not received payment from Bastrop, nor has Edwards conveyed the one third of the mill, but is rendered unable to do so in consequence of a mortgage given by him to Instone, and one given by Instone to Short for the mill; of which mortgages it seems Pemberton had no knowledge when he conveyed to Instone. If, therefore, Instone had notice o?? these circumstances and failed to inform Pemberton thereof, upon general principles of equity (if in a common case there exists no lien) he should be made liable to Voorhies' demand. But should it not be conclusively proved Instone then had notice, he cannot be made liable, either on the principle of an existing lien or for a fraud in failing to give notice of the incumbrance to Pemberton. *3 The main inquiry in this case, therefore, is, had Instone notice when he received the deed from Pemberton? From a thorough consideration of the case we are of opinion the evidence is not sufficiently strong to justify such a conclusion, in opposition to the positive denial in Instone's answer, that he had not notice. It is true the writing between Edwards and Pemberton, whereby Edwards stipulated in case of Bastrop's failure to pay, he would convey the one third of the mill, was drawn on the same day and in the same room when the deed to Instone was given; but no witness has been produced to say the contract between Edwards and Pemberton was read in the presence of Instone, or that he was informed of its contents. Some of the witnesses say they were of the impression and suppose Instone must have known the contents; but when they are asked the reason of their supposition and impressions, it is because of the circumstance of the writings being drawn at the same time and place. These circumstances, we think, do not, however, justify the conclusion and necessarily prove Instone had notice: for it was certainly not a duty which he owed to himself or any other, to search or make inquiry into the extent of the contract or agreement between Edwards and Pemberton. He was alone concerned in securing his interest and in obtaining a title. The deed was prepared and executed to him; and as an ordinary man, pursuing his own business, he could have no interest or inducement to have inquired into the terms upon which Pemberton was induced to convey. Under all the circumstances attendant on this case, we are of opinion the Court below properly dismissed the complainant's bill. The decree must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Voorhies v. Instone 3 Bibb 353, 6 Ky. 353, 1814 WL 788 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
