(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 342,  8 Ky. 342 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1395 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Stillwell v. John Harris. Oct. 15, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 21(2) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k21 Inquisition or Other Summary Proceeding, and Review Thereof 179k21(2) k. Traverse and Proceedings Thereon in General.  Most Cited Cases Where a justice, on traverse of forcible entry, returns a bond and security from the traverser, conditioned from the faithful prosecution of the traverse, and dated on the day of the traverse, it is sufficient, though the justice omits to certify that the security was approved by and executed before him. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a writ of error brought to reverse a judgment of the court below, dismissing the plaintiff's traverse to an inquest taken under the act regulating writs of forcible entries and detainers. In a traverse of forcible entry, &c., if the justice returns a bond and security from the traverses conditioned as the law directs, and dated the day of the traverse, it is good, though the justice omits to certify that the security was approved by and the bond executed before him. The justice, before whom the inquest was taken, having returned to court a bond, subscribed by the traverser and his security, conditioned for the faithful prosecution of the traverse, and purporting to have been delivered on the day the traverse appears to have been taken, we are of opinion that, although the record returned by the justice, contains no statement of the security having been approved of, and the bond executed before him, the court below ought not, for that cause, to have dismissed the traverse. The judgment must therefore be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Pope for appellant. Ky.App. 1818. Stillwell v. Harris 1 A.K.Marsh. 342, 8 Ky. 342, 1818 WL 1395 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
