(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 220,  8 Ky. 220 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1321 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Archibald Bedford, v. John Duly, & e contra. Jun. 5, 1818. *1 ON WRITS OF ERROR TO REVERSE DECREES OF THE BOURBON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Mortgages 266 k 491 266 Mortgages 266X Foreclosure by Action 266X(K) Judgment or Decree 266k485 Scope and Extent of Relief 266k491 k. Rights of and Relief to Defendants in General.  Most Cited Cases Where the legal title is in an absent defendant, a day should be given him to convey, before commissioners are appointed to do so;  but on a bill to foreclose a mortgage, the title being in the mortgagee, no day need be given. Appeal and Error 30 k 870(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(B) Interlocutory, Collateral, and Supplementary Proceedings and Questions 30k869 On Appeal from Final Judgment 30k870 Interlocutory Proceedings Brought Up in  General 30k870(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The court of appeals, possessing no revising power over interlocutory decrees of the inferior court, will not reverse a final decree, which is otherwise correct, for error in an interlocutory decree. Equity 150 k 418 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k417 Decree Pro Confesso 150k418 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited  Cases A bill should not be taken for confessed against an absent defendant at the term to which he is ordered to appear. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: In November, 1809, Archibald Bedford exhibited his bill against Duly, to foreclose the equity of redemption in a tract of land, mortgaged to secure the payment of $800. The process having been made returnable to the November term, 1809, and no appearance having been entered for Duly, an order of publication was then made against him, as an absent defendant. The order of publication having been duly executed, and Duly still failing to appear, an order was made at the May term, 1810, taking the bill for confessed, and an interlocutory decree entered, giving day, for payment of principal and interest due on the mortgage, until the first of August then next ensuing, and that on failure the equity of redemption should be foreclosed, &c. The money not having been paid, at the August term, a sale of the mortgaged estate was ordered, and John L. Hickman, &c. or any two, were appointed to sell, &c. and Hickman was also appointed commissioner to convey the estate to the purchaser. The sale was accordingly made by two of the commissioners, and report duly made to court of Bedford being the purchaser, at the price of $750. Subsequent to this, Archibald Bedford, the mortgagee, and Hickman, the commissioner, by a joint deed conveyed the estate purchased by Archibald, to Benjamin Bedford, and that deed was duly recorded. Some time after this, the balance of Bedford's demand upon the mortgage still remaining unpaid, he exhibited his bill for the purpose of reviving and having execution for what remained due, and the subpoena having been served upon Duly, at a subsequent term, he was allowed to file his answer, purporting not only to answer the bill of revivor and original bill, but was also in the nature of a cross bill, setting forth various reasons why he should be permitted to redeem and be restored to the mortgaged estate; and upon his petition, the decree of foreclosure was, by order of the court, opened for further investigation. *2 The answer thus exhibited in the nature of a cross bill, was also answered by Bedford, and after the cause was fully prepared, it came on to be finally heard, as well upon the bill of Bedford, as the cross bill of Duly; and although the court below were satisfied with the justice of Bedford's demand, yet as from the exhibits in the cause, he appears to have sold the land purchased by him under the decree of foreclosure, for $950, that court, by its decree, made Bedford account for the amount for which he sold the land; but supposing the land could not be reached in the hands of Bedford's alienee, and perceiving that Bedford by being thu chargeable for the price of the land, had received more than wts justly due him on the mortgage, ordered him to pay to Duly $72, with interest. To this decree, (each party being dissatisfied) has respectively prosecuted writs of error. As the assignment of error on the part of Duly, questions the regularity of the original decree, as well as that last pronounced, it is proper we should first notice the objections taken to the proceedings under which the land was sold. It is first objected, that the bill was improperly taken for confessed, and an interlocutory decree entered at the term to which Duly, by the order of publication, was warned to appear. Under the laws regulating the proceedings against absent defendants, as the complainant is required to proceed in the same manner upon publication against the absent defendants as if process were executed, it was certainly not strictly regular, for the court, at the first term after publication, to allow the bill of Bedford to be taken for confessed, and if the decree then made had been final, it might, no doubt, for that irregularity, have been set aside. It is irregular to take a bill for confessed at the term to which the absentee is warned to appear. But, as this court possesses no revising cognizance over the interlocutory orders of other courts, it would be improper, if the final decree is otherwise correct, and was pronounced at a time when the cause could have been regularly heard, to reverse the decree, merely for an error in the interlocutory decree. But if the decree taken at that term be interlocutory only, it will not be reversed for that cause alone. Abstracting, therefore, from the consideration of this cause, every order made at the first term after publication, no reason is perceived for setting aside the final decree. For, although in that point of view, there would be nothing in the cause shewing the bill had been taken for confessed, yet as the exhibits filed illustrated, beyond doubt, the justice of the complainant's demand, it was certainly proper, as the time had then elapsed upon which the cause might be heard, to make a decree foreclosing the defendant's equity of redemption in the mortgaged estates, and directing a sale for the purpose of satisfying the complainant's lien. But it is again objected, that the decree of sale is erroneous, in appointing a commissioner to convey the land sold to the purchaser, without a day having been first given for the absent defendant to make the conveyance; but if the commissioner was properly directed to convey, it is moreover objected, that the conveyance was improperly made to Benjamin, instead of the purchaser, Archibald Bedford. *3 It is irregular to appoint a c'm'r to convey (where the title rests in an absentee), without giving a day to the absentee; but in mortgages, the title is in the mortgagee, and no day need be given. Where the legal title resides in an absent defendant, it is certainly proper, that a day should be given him to convey, before commissioners are appointed to do so; but in the present case, as the legal title was transferred to Bedford by the deed of mortgage, no conveyance from Duly was necessary to pass the title to the purchaser, and, consequently, it can not have been error not to give him a day to do that, which was totally unnecessary for him to do, and which, if done, could produce no effect whatever. If then we are correct in supposing that no conveyance by Duly was necessary, it results that it cannot be material to the present contest, whether the commissioner conveyed to the purchaser or his alienee; for if made by Duly, the deed would have been inoperative; so as made by the commissioner, as it purports to convey the interest of Duly only it can have no greater effect. Supposing then, that the decree first rendered, and the proceedings had thereon, to be liable to no substantial objection, it follows, that unless for some reason growing out of the answer of Duly made in the nature of a cross bill, a different result be produced, Bedford should have had a decree in his favor, reviving that which was first pronounced upon the original bill. But it is contended that, as upon filing his answer, the first decree was opened for further investigation, under the law regulating proceedings against absent defendants, such a decree should have been finally made as though no decree had been pronounced upon the original bill, and hence it is contended, that as Duly offers to do so, he ought to have been allowed to redeem, and upon that being done, restored to the land which had been sold under the decree first pronounced against him. In giving an exposition to the act alluded to, it is proper to remark, that it is not the first, second and third sections, but the fourth  (1 Littell, 593), that applies to the present case; and according to that section, although as the absentee is allowed to appear and answer the bill, it might be proper in the further consideration of the complainant's right to relief, to decide upon it as though no decree had ever been made, yet as the court is required to make such a decree as may be equitable, in pronouncing their final and ultimate decree, the situation of the parties as produced by the first decree, certainly ought not to be altogether disregarded by the court; and if not, as Bedford, as has been already shewn, not only purchased the land at a fair sale and under a regular decree, but as he is moreover now shewn to have been justly entitled to the decree then made, he ought not to be compelled to surrender the title to Duly. On opening a decree had against an absent deft. and rehearing the cause, regard is to be paid to the first decree, and if that decree gives a compl't no more than right, the decree and all things done under it, should remain unaltered. *4 Nor do we suppose that Bedford should be compelled to account to Duly for any profit which he may have gained by the subsequent sale of the land; for, as by the purchase, he became justly invested with all Duly's interest, upon no principle of equity can the sale of Bedford, thereafter made either authorize a decree against him for the land, or compel him to account for its price. As, therefore, Bedford has shewn the decree first rendered not only to have been regularly obtained, but as that decree is moreover, upon the further preparation of the cause, proven to be just, Bedford, without being made accountable for the price for which he sold the land, after allowing all just credits in favor of Duly, ought to have had a decree reviving the decree first pronounced in his favor, for the residue of his demand. The decree of the court below, therefore, must be reversed, and the cause remanded for a decree to be entered according to this opinion. Duly must pay the cost of both writs of error. Hughes for Duly, Bibb for Bedford. Ky.App. 1818. Bedford v. Duly 1 A.K.Marsh. 220, 8 Ky. 220, 1818 WL 1321 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
