(Cite as: 4 Bibb 188,  7 Ky. 188 (Ky.),  1815 WL 715 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jones v. M' Dowell. Oct. 7, 1815. *1 The words "M took corn out of A's crib twice, he looked round to see if any person saw him," are actionable. Writ of inquiry to one count, in slander; issue on plea of not guilty & justification as to second count; the jury sworn to inquire of damages, and to try the issue; damages assessed on first count, and verdict for defendant on the issues; the plaintiff is entitled to judgment on first count for his damages. Upon overruling a demurrer the Court are not bound to offer leave to the demurrant to withdraw his demurrer and plead, but if he wishes leave to do so, he ought to apply for it. West Headnotes Libel and Slander 237 k 7(13) 237 Libel and Slander 237I Words and Acts Actionable, and Liability Therefor 237k7 Words Imputing Crime and Immorality 237k7(13) k. Larceny. Most Cited Cases Where the declaration charged that the defendant said he "saw the plaintiff take corn from A.'s crib twice, and look round to see if any person saw him measuring," it was held that the words were actionable. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was an action for slanderous words, brought by the appellee against the appellant, in the Court below. The declaration contains two counts. The first charges the appellant of having said that "he saw the appellee take corn from Aaron Rainy's crib twice, and looked round to see if any person saw him measuring," etc. The second count charges the appellant of having said that "he saw the appellee steal Aaron Rainy's corn," etc. To the first count the appellant filed a demurrer, and to the second count pleaded the general issue, and a special plea of justification. The appellee filed a joinder to the demurrer; replied to the special plea, and joined issue to the general issue. The law arising on the demurrer was adjudged in favor of the appellee, and a writ of inquiry awarded to assess the damages on the first count; and issues having been made up on both the pleas to the second count, a jury was called, as well to inquire of damages on the first count as to try the issues to the second. The jury returned a verdict for the appellant upon the issues, and assessed damages in favor of the appellee upon the writ of inquiry, and judgment was entered in favor of the appellee for the damages assessed on the first count. From this judgment the appellant has appealed to this Court. The first question made by the assignment of errors, is, are the words laid in the first count actionable? Whether they are actionable or not, turns exclusively upon the construction which may be given to them. If they imply a felony in taking of the corn, then as they tend to subject the appellee to criminal punishment, they are most clearly actionable; but if they import nothing but a bare trespass, the appellee cannot be said to have been put in danger of legal punishment, and no action can be maintained for the speaking of them. According to the old rule of construing words in mitiori sensu, the latter meaning would prevail; for the words laid may be true, and nothing but a trespass have been committed. But that rule of construction, as justly observed in the case of Logan v. Steele, 1 Bibb's Rep. 594, "has long since been exploded, and has given way to one which accords more with reason and the common sense of mankind; that of construing words in that sense in which they would be understood by those who hear or read them." If the words laid in the first count are tested by this rule, and taken in their usual acceptation, they obviously import a charge of felony. That the words mean something more than a naked trespass, is evident: for if that had been the only meaning intended to be conveyed, the simple charge of taking the corn would have effected the object; but when the charge of taking is connected with expressions of the manner the appellee acted in the taking, it shows clearly the speaker of the words intended to communicate the idea, (and that the hearers must so have understood them,) that the corn was taken with a felonious intent. *2 It is assigned for error, that the Court below erred in entering judgment in favor of the appellee on the first count, after the jury had found a verdict for the defendant on the second count. We can perceive no irregularity in this respect. The appellee had a right to lay as many counts?? in his declaration as he thought fit, and a failure on one count cannot prevent his recovery on the other. It is also assigned for error, that the Court erred in awarding a writ of inquiry to assess damages on the first count, upon overruling the appellant's demurrer, without first giving him leave to withdraw his demurrer and plead. Upon a decision of the Court on the demurrer being known to the appellant, he might have applied to the Court for permission to withdraw his demurrer and plead; and upon making out a proper case, the Court in the due exercise of their discretion, should have given him leave to do so; but it certainly was not necessary for the Court ex officio to offer the appellant permission withdraw his demurrer; and as the appellant does not appear to have even asked for permission to withdraw his demurrer or plead, the Court properly awarded a writ of inquiry to assess the damages. The judgment must be affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Jones v. McDowell 4 Bibb 188, 7 Ky. 188, 1815 WL 715 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
