(Cite as: 4 Bibb 322,  7 Ky. 322 (Ky.),  1816 WL 744 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jeff v. Wade. Apr. 18, 1816. *1 J won of W $50, to be paid in work, W performed work and labor for J for and on account of that transaction, and acknowledged whilst he was performing the work that it was on that account. W cannot maintain assumpsit for the work and labor. And the instruction of the Court that unless W agreed it should go in discharge of the debt after the work was done and measured, they should find for W, was erroneous. West Headnotes Gaming and Lotteries 188 k 275(5) 188 Gaming and Lotteries 188II Rights and Remedies of Parties 188k272 Parties to Bet or Game 188k275 Recovery of Property Wagered or Lost 188k275(4) Particular  Contexts 188k275(5) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 188k26(1)) Defendant won of plaintiff a certain sum to be paid in work. Plaintiff performed work, and acknowledged, while so doing, that it was performed in discharge of the gaming debt.  Held, that plaintiff could not maintain an action of assumpsit for the work, since, in order to do so, he must prove the performance of the work under circumstances which would have raised a promise on the part of defendant to pay therefor. Gaming and Lotteries 188 k 293 188 Gaming and Lotteries 188II Rights and Remedies of Parties 188k283 Actions 188k293 k. Trial. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 188k50(2)) Defendant won of plaintiff a certain sum to be paid in work, and plaintiff performed work on account of the transaction.  Held, in assumpsit for the work, that an instruction that, unless plaintiff agreed that it should go in discharge of the gaming debt after the work was done and measured, and jury should find in his favor, was erroneous. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. WADE having obtained a judgment before a justice of the peace against Jeff, the cause was brought before the Circuit Court by an appeal. Wade then filed a declaration in assumpsist, whereby he claims of Jeff so much as he reasonably deserved to have for work and labor previously done and performed by him for Jeff, at his special instance and request. Jeff pleaded non assumpsit, and issue being joined thereto, a jury was impannelled, and on the trial it was proven that Jeff had won about $50 of Wade, which was to have been paid in work: and that whilst Wade was doing the work for which the suit was brought, he acknowledged that he was doing it in discharge of the debt to Jeff, and that after the evidence was all gone through, the Court instructed the jury that unless Jeff could prove that after the work was done, measured and valued, Wade had agreed it should go in discharge of the gaming debt, they ought to find for Wade. The jury accordingly found for Wade, and judgment being entered thereon, Jeff has brought the cause before this Court by writ of error. The instructions of the Court below were most clearly erroneous. *2 There can be no question but what Wade should have proven the performance of the work, under circumstances which would have raised a promise on the part of Jeff, before the jury could regularly have found a verdict in his favor. Whether the work was so performed, formed an inquiry exclusively proper for the determination of the jury; and as the instructions of the Court drew from the jury that inquiry, by making their finding for Wade depend exclusively upon evidence to be produced by Jeff, in that respect, were they liable to no other objection, the instructions were evidently improper. But we cannot in any point of view perceive why Jeff should be required to prove that Wade after the work was done, agreed it should go in discharge of his debt; for as Jeff must have been proven either expressly or by implication to have promised to pay for the work, an agreement by Wade before the work was done, that it should go in discharge of the debt which he was owing Jeff, would certainly have repelled any implied promise, which might otherwise have arose; and as no express promise was proven, would consequently have precluded the jury from finding for Wade. The judgment reversed with costs, the cause remanded, etc. Ky.App. 1816. Jeff v. Wade 4 Bibb 322, 7 Ky. 322, 1816 WL 744 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
