(Cite as: 3 Bibb 168,  6 Ky. 168 (Ky.),  1813 WL 635 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wallace, etc. v. Barlow's administrators. Oct. 5, 1813. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 450 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k450 k. Evidence. Most Cited Cases On the pleas of plene administravit and no assets to be administered, the onus is upon the plaintiff, who is bound to show assets. Trial 388 k 330(3) 388 Trial 388IX Verdict 388IX(A) General Verdict 388k330 Several Counts or Issues 388k330(3) k. Defective, Immaterial, and Inconsistent  Counts and Issues. Most Cited Cases Where there are issues on three pleas, one of which is material, and the other two immaterial, and a general verdict is given for the defendants, the verdict should not be set aside, and a repleader awarded. Contracts 95 k 341 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k341 k. Failure of Consideration. Most Cited  Cases A plea to the consideration of a covenant in part only is bad. Covenants 108 k 38 108 Covenants 108II Construction and Operation 108II(B) Covenants of Title 108k38 k. Nature and Operation in General. Most Cited  Cases In a "chancing bargain," a defect of the vendor's title will not render him liable for breach of covenant unless fraud be shown. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 JOHN WALLACE and Susannah Pawling, the plaintiffs, and William Barlow, on the 19th of August 1806, executed the following deed of covenant, viz: Covenant by heirs to relinquish their right and interest in a land warrant, or the land secured by it, as soon as fully paid for, the purchaser to pay 1200 dollars--on an action against the administrators for the recovery of the purchase money, the defendants pleaded, 1. that the plaintiffs were not entitled to the land as heirs or in any other manner, whereby the consideration hath failed; and 2. That the pl'tfs had no power or authority to dispose of the interest in the warrant--issues on those pleas immaterial. In a chancing bargain a defect of title cannot be set up as a defense, unless fraud is charged in making the contract. A plea that goes to part of the consideration of a bond, inadmissible--Acc. Peebles v. Stephens, vol. 1, 502. Issues on three pleas, two immaterial, and a general verdict for defendants, the verdict should not be set aside and a repleader awarded, there being one material issue. Whenever the Court can upon the whole record give judgment, a repleader should not be awarded. On the issue of plene administravit, it is necessary that the plaintiffs should prove the defendants had received assets belonging to the estate of their intestate. Whether the instruction of the Court relative to the immaterial issues were right or wrong, is not important, as the record shows the plaintiffs ought not to have had a verdict on the material issue. "Articles of agreement entered into this 19th day of August 1806, between John Wallace, the heirs of Elizabeth Gilmore and Susannah Pawling, of the one part, and William Barlow of the other part, witnesseth, that the said John Wallace, for himself and the heirs of Elizabeth Gilmore, dec'd, formerly Elizabeth Wallace, as executors for the same, and Susannah Pawling, formerly Susannah Wallace, as heirs and legal representatives of Adam Wallace, dec'd, claims an interest in a warrant, or in land secured by said warrant, for services performed by said Adam Wallace, under the last will and testament of the same, whereby a warrant was improperly obtained in the name of Samuel Wallace, heir at law to Adam Wallace, dec'd: the parts that the said John Wallace, the heirs of Elizabeth Gilmore, deceased, and Susannah Pawling claim is 666 2-3 acres, out of which the original locator is to be paid, if any benefit is derived from the same: for which the said John Wallace, for himself and the heirs of Elizabeth Gilmore, as executor for the same, and Susannah Pawling, for herself, doth hereby agree to sell and relinquish their rights to the said Barlow, or cause the same to be done as soon as fully paid for, and no sooner; for which consideration the said William Barlow does hereby agree to pay or cause to be paid unto the said John Wallace and Susannah Pawling the sum of $1200, lawful money of Kentucky, payable the 25th day of next December, which may be discharged at any time before that period with the sum of $1000, two-thirds of said sum payable to said Wallace, the remaining third to said Pawling." William Barlow having failed to pay the amount stipulated in the agreement aforesaid on his part, John Wallace and Susannah Pawling prosecuted an action in the Scott Circuit Court against the defendants, his administrators, to recover the same; and in their declaration they allege a readiness to perform their part of the agreement, and charge a failure on the part of William Barlow in his lifetime, or the defendants, his administrators, since, to pay the amount stipulated on the part of Barlow. *2 The defendants pleaded, first, that the consideration for which William Barlow, dec'd, became bound to pay the money contained in said writing obligatory, was 2000 acres, part of a 4000 acre military land warrant, issued in the name of Samuel Wallace, heir at law to Adam Wallace, dec'd; that at the time of making said contract and entering into said writing obligatory, said plaintiffs represented to said William Barlow, deceased, that said warrant of 4000 acres had illegally and by mistake issued in the name of said Samuel Wallace, heir at law to Adam Wallace, dec'd; and that said plaintiffs and the heirs and representatives of Elizabeth Gilmore, dec'd, were legally entitled to 666 2-3 acres each, amounting in the whole to 2000 acres, as co-heirs and representatives of Adam Wallace, deceased; in consequence of which representations of said plaintiffs, said Barlow, dec'd, was induced to execute said writing obligatory; and said defendants aver that neither said plaintiffs and the heirs of Elizabeth Gilmore, dec'd, nor either of them, at the time of making said contract and executing said writing, were entitled, as heirs of Adam Wallace, deceased, or in any other manner, to 666 2-3 acres each, or any other quantity of said 4000 acre warrant, whereby the consideration for which said sum of money mentioned in said writing obligatory was to have been paid, hath wholly failed; and this he is ready to verify, etc. And for further and second plea, the defendants pleaded, that the consideration for which William Barlow, dec'd, executed said writing obligatory, was 2000 acres of a 4000 acre military land warrant, issued in the name of Samuel Wallace, dec'd, and that said plaintiffs represented at the time of making said contract and entering into said writing to said William Barlow, dec'd, that said plaintiffs and the heirs of Elizabeth Gilmore, dec'd, were entitled each to 666 2-3 acres, part of said land warrant, amounting in the whole to 2000 acres, as heirs and representatives of said Adam Wallace, dec'd; and the plaintiffs further represent that John Wallace was the executor of said Elizabeth Gilmore, and by the will of said Elizabeth was authorized to dispose of her interest in said warrant, to-wit: 666 2-3 acres thereof; and that said Barlow, dec'd, giving full credit to said representations of said plaintiffs, purchased the interest aforesaid of said plaintiffs, and that of Elizabeth Gilmore, dec'd, aforesaid into said land warrant; and in consideration thereof, and for and on account of no other consideration, said Barlow executed said writing; and the defendant avers that said John Wallace, at the time of making said contract and executing said writing, had, by the will of said Elizabeth, no power or authority to dispose of the interest in said land warrant, nor was he authorized in any other manner to dispose of the interest aforesaid of said Elizabeth Gilmore in said warrant to said Barlow; and this he is ready to verify, etc. And the defendants for further and third plea, pleaded, plene administraverunt. *3 To which several pleas general replications were filed and issues joined thereupon. Upon the trial of the issue, after the evidence was gone through, the plaintiffs moved the Circuit Court to instruct the jury to find for them, because the contract was made without fraud or misrepresentation; but the Court refused. The defendants then moved the Court, and they instructed the jury that no right or title to the land mentioned in the contract passed from Adam Wallace by his will to the plaintiffs, nor by the will of Elizabeth Gilmore. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the Court, and the evidence made part of the record. Verdict and judgment were obtained by the defendants, from which the plaintiffs have prosecuted this appeal, and assigned for error-- 1. That the issue joined upon the first and second pleas of the defendants are immaterial; the pleas being no bar to the action, the verdict should have been set aside and a repleader awarded. 2. The Court below erred in overruling the motion of the plaintiffs for the instructions asked. 3. The Court erred in the instructions given the jury on the motion of the defendants. By the first assignment of errors two questions are presented for consideration. 1. Are the issues joined on the first and second pleas immaterial? And if so, should the verdict have been set aside and a repleader awarded? By the stipulations contained in the agreement upon which this action is brought, the plaintiffs and Barlow seem to have considered the plaintiffs' title doubtful. The plaintiffs were not to warrant the title: they sold their claim only. The plaintiffs' claim and not their covenant for a good title, was the consideration of the covenant by Barlow. It is obvious from the agreement that Barlow purchased the benefit of the plaintiffs' claim only; that it was a chancing bargain. To an action brought on such a contract, it is evidently inadmissible for the defendants by plea to aver a defect of title in the plaintiffs, unless fraud is charged to have been committed in making the contract. The first plea of the defendant, therefore, we think clearly insufficient to bar the plaintiffs' action; and the issue joined thereon consequently immaterial. The second plea, we likewise think insufficient. The objection that it goes to a part of the consideration of the obligation upon which the action is brought only, was there no other, must, as has frequently heretofore been decided by this Court, be deemed fatal. The next inquiry is, should the verdict have been set aside and a repleader awarded? Had there been no other pleas than the two which are considered insufficient, there could be no doubt but a repleader should have been awarded; but the verdict is general for the defendants on the whole of the issues, and there having been a material issue joined upon the plea of plene administravit, it is conceived the verdict should not be set aside and a repleader awarded: for wherever the Court can upon the whole record give judgment, a repleader should not be awarded. Had no other issue been joined in this cause than the material one, judgment might regularly have been entered upon the verdict of the jury. There having been other, but immaterial issues joined and tried by the jury, can produce no effect upon the judgment which should have been entered on the finding on the material issue. The Court should have disregarded the finding as to those issues which could not affect the merits of the cause, and awarded judgment on the finding as to the good issue. The reason, therefore, which operates in favor of awarding repleaders when the issues are all immaterial, does not apply where there has been a verdict or a material issue: for in such a case enough exists in the record whereupon judgment may be given. *4 The next question demanding notice is, whether the Court erred in withholding the instructions asked by the plaintiffs. To have authorized the jury on the issue to the plea of plene administravit, to have found for the plaintiffs, it was evidently necessary they should have proven the defendants had received assets of the estate of the intestate Barlow. This, however, was not done, and consequently the Court decided correctly in refusing to instruct the jury to find for the plaintiffs. Whether the Court decided correctly in giving the instructions to the jury on the motion of the defendants, we deem unnecessary to inquire; because those instructions grew out of, and applied exclusively to the immaterial issues, and could not have had any possible effect on the trial of the material issue. Whether, therefore, the Court erred or not in those instructions, the judgment on that account ought not to be reversed. Judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1813. Wallace v. Barlow's Adm'rs 3 Bibb 168, 6 Ky. 168, 1813 WL 635 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
