(Cite as: 4 Bibb 475,  7 Ky. 475 (Ky.),  1816 WL 841 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Galloway's heirs v. Hill. Dec. 11, 1816. *1 Quere, whether in an order of submission made between heirs and another, the heirs as well as their guardian should not be named individually? An order of submission of the controversy in a suit depending between the parties, when no suit was depending, renders the award made under the order of no effect. Parties having matters in contest may, without a previous suit, make a concise statement of the controversy, and have an order of Court referring it to arbitrators--Emerson v. Hutcheson, 2 vol. 455 A suit which has abated by the death of one of the parties, and never revived, cannot be said to be depending. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 58(.5) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(A) Abatement or Survival of Action 2k58 Actions and Proceedings Which Abate 2k58(.5) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 2k58) An order of submission in a suit when it had abated by death of one of the parties will not support an award made under it. Alternative Dispute Resolution 25T k 119 25T Alternative Dispute Resolution 25TII Arbitration 25TII(A) Nature and Form of Proceeding 25Tk118 Matters Which May Be Subject to Arbitration Under  Law 25Tk119 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 33k3.1, 33k3  Arbitration) An order containing a submission of matters in contest between the parties in a suit pending between them, when in fact there is no such suit pending between them, renders the award of no effect. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is a writ of error brought to reverse a decree of the Court below, made in pursuance to an award compelling the heirs of Galloway, by their guardian, to convey a certain tract of land. The award was made under an order of the late Court of Quarter Session, referring all matters of difference in a suit said to be therein depending between Joel Hill, complainant, and the heirs of William Galloway, defendants, to the final determination of certain persons named, upon the consent of the complainant by his counsel, and the defendants by their guardian. In consequence of irregularities apparent upon the order of submission, we are of opinion the decree of the Court below must be reversed. When the order of submission was made, according to strict practice, it was certainly irregular to carry on a suit against the heirs of a dead person without naming them; and it might be a question, were there no other objection to the order, whether it could be sustained in consequence of neither the heirs nor guardian being named. But be that as it may, we apprehend the order in other respects is fatally defective; for as it purports to be a submission of a suit depending between Hill and the heirs of Galloway, it would seem to follow, the referees could under the order determine such matters only as were contested, in a suit between the parties. It will not be denied but the parties might, when the order was made, by an agreement containing a statement of the matter in contest, and by making the same an order of Court, have referred all matters, whether in suit or not, to the determination of judges of their own choosing; but as no such agreement is shown in the present case, and the order refers to a suit depending between the parties, to maintain the order such a suit must have been depending when it was made. But if the record is examined, no such suit will be found to have existed; for although a suit appears to have been brought by Hill against William Galloway in the Quarter Session Court, that suit upon the death of Galloway abated; and as it had not been revived against his heirs, it cannot be said, as to them, to have been depending. The order, therefore, as it contains a submission of the matters in contest between the parties in a suit depending between them, when in fact no such suit appears then to have existed, it cannot support the award upon which the decree was made. *2 The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below and the order of the submission set aside. Ky.App. 1816. Galloway's Heirs v. Hill 4 Bibb 475, 7 Ky. 475, 1816 WL 841 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
