(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 89,  20 Ky. 89 (Ky.),  1827 WL 2584 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Monks v. Roberts. Jan. 23, 1826. *1 Contracts. Commonwealth's Paper. Damages. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Payment 294 k 12(.5) 294 Payment 294I Requisites and Sufficiency 294k12 Particular Kinds of Money or Currency 294k12(.5) k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 294k12) Where a contract is to pay for a crop of hemp at a certain amount in commonwealth paper, such contract is for the payment of the commonwealth paper, and not the specie price of hemp at that time. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] In March, 1825, a contract was made between Roberts and Monks, wherein it was agreed that the latter would purchase of the former, all his last year's crop of hemp at the price of six dollars in Commonwealth's paper per hundred, and the rise of the price in Lexington until the first of July thereafter. Under this contract, Roberts delivered to Monks sixty-eight hundred and eight pounds of hemp, and in part pay therefor, received six dollars in Commonwealth's paper per hundred. Monks covenants to pay Roberts for his crop of hemp $6 per cwt. in Com. paper and the rise in price in the Lexington market up to the first of July thereafter, receives the hemp and pays the minimum. But the price of hemp had, before the first of July, 1825, risen above six dollars in Commonwealth's paper, and to recover the value of the rise above that sum, this action was brought by Roberts in the circuit court. The hemp rises, and Roberts sues. On the trial, after having proved the contract and delivery of the hemp, evidence was introduced going to prove that the highest market price in specie, for hemp in Lexington on the first of July, 1825, was five dollars and twenty-five cents; that the highest market price at the same time and place in Commonwealth's paper, was from seven to eight dollars, and that the rate of exchange at the same time and place, was sixty-five to seventy advance on specie in Commonwealth's paper. Proof of the price of hemp in the market. The court in substance, instructed the jury, that in estimating damages they were not to be governed by the value in gold and silver of the highest price of hemp in Commonwealth's paper on the first of July, 1825, but that they should be guided by the specie price of hemp at that time. Instructions of the circuit court as to the measure of damages. The question for revision is as to the correctness of that decision. It is perfectly clear from the evidence, that by the contract between the parties, the hemp was to be paid for in Commonwealth's paper and not specie. Held that the contract was for the payment of commonwealth's paper and not specie. And if so, it is difficult to perceive how it is possible for the specie value of the hemp to have any influence upon the amount of damages to be assessed by the jury. Being entitled to the highest price in Commonwealth's paper, Roberts was at liberty to insist upon the payment of the paper, and by pursuing the act of the legislature upon that subject, might have recovered a judgment for the full amount, to be discharged in that sort of paper. But as he has not pursued the requisitions of the act, his recovery must be in damages for the failure of Monks to perform his undertaking. The rule however, by which the jury ought to have been governed in assessing the damages, must be to ascertain the value of the specific thing contracted for, and not as the court seems to have thought, the value of the hemp for which the Commonwealth's paper was to be paid. *2 In the assessment of damages to pay the market price of an article in commonwealth's paper, above a minimum paid in advance, the value of the paper at which the article would sell above the minimum pa?? and not the specie price of the article in market less by the specie value of the paper advanced is the criterion. The judgment must, herefore, the reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1826. Monks v. Roberts 4 T.B.Mon. 89, 20 Ky. 89, 1827 WL 2584 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
