(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 315,  8 Ky. 315 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1380 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Taylor v. Steele's Heirs. Oct. 10, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE HENRY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Taxation 371 k 3036 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(M) Redemption from Tax Sale 371k3036 k. Certificate of Redemption. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 371k713) If lands are stricken off to the commonwealth for nonpayment of taxes, and redeemed by their payment within the time limited by law, the register's receipt is competent to prove the redemption. Taxation 371 k 3053 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(M) Redemption from Tax Sale 371k3053 k. Operation and Effect. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 371k725) If lands are struck off to the commonwealth for nonpayment of taxes, and redeemed by their payment within the time limited by law, the owner is restored to his original right. Adverse Possession 20 k 67 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(F) Hostile Character of Possession 20k67 k. Adverse Entry. Most Cited Cases Where a person disseised had only a right of entry, and no actual seisin, a descent cast, and the lapse of five years, will not toll his right of entry. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment rendered against the appellant, in an ejectment, brought by him to recover the possession of a tract of land in Henry county. The appellant asserted his claim by a conveyance from Philip Barbour, who is proven to be the heir at law of Philip Barbour, dec., to whom the patent for the land issued from the commonwealth of Virginia, in 1785. Upon the trial, which was had on the general issue, it was proven, that before Taylor obtained the conveyance from Barbour, the land was sold and stricken off to the state, by the register, for the non-payment of its taxes; but as it moreover appeared, that Taylor had, by a subsequent payment of the taxes, redeemed the land, the court instructed the jury, that in consequence of the sale by the register, the title of Taylor could not be defeated. But it being also proven that the ancestor of the appellee having subsequent to the date of Barbour's patent, entered upon and took the possession of the land in contest, under an adverse claim, and having continued that possession for upward of five years before his death, the court instructed the jury, that by the descent from Steele to his heirs, the right of entry which was conferred upon Barbour by the patent, and which is now claimed by Taylor, was defeated, and that the appellant could not consequently recover in the present contest. Whether, therefore, that court decided correctly in giving the constructions upon those two points, are the only enquiries to which the attention of this court need be directed. That Taylor's right to recover can not be defeated by the sale of the register, we have no doubt. *2 If lands are stricken off to the commonwealth for non payment of taxes, and redeemed by their payment within the time limited by law, the owner is restored to his original right. The register's receipt is competent to prove the redemption. He was clearly allowed, by the provisions of the law under which the sale was made, time to redeem, and as he is proven to have accordingly made the redemption, unless in some other way divested, the title must continue to reside in him. The redemption, it is true, was proven by no other evidence than that of the register's receipt, but as he appears to have been authorized to receive the payment of the taxes, no reason is perceived against the admission of his receipt, for the purpose of proving the fact of redemption. Taylor, then, notwithstanding the sale by the register, must be supposed to have become vested, by the deed from Barbour, with the right conferred by the grant to the patentee, and as the patentee could have entered upon the land, so Taylor may now enter, unless his right of entry is taken away by the death of Steele. Whether, therefore, Steele's death destroyed Taylor's right, we shall next proceed to enquire? If, as was contended in argument, the dying seized, in no case, but where there has been an actual desseizin, tolls the right of entry, it follows that Steele's death can not have that operation. For as neither Taylor nor those through whom he claims, were ever actually seized, it is impossible that by Steele's entry upon the land either of them can have been actually disseized. The entry of Steele under an adverse claim, was no doubt an ouster as to those claiming under Barbour, but as it was an ouster of the legal and not of the actual seizin, in contradistinction to the other species of ouster, by intrusion, abatement and deforcement, it can not, upon any legal principle, be denominated an actual disseizin. The entry of a stranger on the lands of another having seizin in law only, may be an ouster but is not a disseizin. At common law the fact of disseizin was not necessary to toll the right of entry, it was the casting a descent from a person having seizin of the inheritance by any unlawful means. The right of entry remained, while the possession unlawfully obtained was a naked one, but the descent cast places the heir of the tort feazor in possession by act of law, his possession was therefore prima facie lawful, and he must loose it by the ordinary action. As well might the entry of a stranger upon the lands of an heir or a devisee, be denominated a disseizin, as the entry of Steele upon the lands in contest in the lifetime of the patentee, Barbour, be so denominated. In each case, as the person entitled to the land would have a right to enter, in legal contemplation, he may be said to be legally seized, but before an entry, in either case, as there can be no actual possession, neither can he be said to be in fact seized. As the entry of a stranger, then, upon the legal seizin of the heir or devisee, is clearly, according to the settled doctrine of the common law, although an ouster, yet not a disseizin; so it follows that although by the grant Barbour obtained a legal seizin, yet the entry of Steele upon that seizin, although an ouster, can not be denominated an actual disseizen. *3 But at common law an actual disseizin seems not to have been necessary to make the falling of a descent toll an entry, but generally speaking, the right of entry is said to be defeated, by a descent from any person seized of the inheritance by any unlawful means whatever. Coke on Lit. 237; 3 Com. dig. 483; 3 Blac. Com. 176. That such a descent defeats the right to enter seems necessarily to result, from the principles upon which that remedy obviously proceeds. For as it is in cases of a naked possession unlawfully obtained, that the rightful owner, by the common law, was permitted to regain his possession by entry, it follows, that as by a descent the heir comes to the land by act of law, his possession is prima facie lawful, and having gained an apparent right of possession, can not, in general, be evicted but in the ordinary mode of action. As the heir by the casting the descent from one seized of the inheritance, acquired an apparent right of possession, it was immaterial by what species of ouster the possession of the ancestor was obtained. In each the rightful owner lost his right of entry and must resort to his action. But as it is because of the apparent right of possession, gained by operation of law, that the rightful owner is not allowed to enter, it follows, that before he can become possessed of such a right, his ancestor must at the time of his decease, have been seized of the inheritance; and, if so seized, it, upon principle, is totally immaterial by what species of ouster it may have been obtained. For as to all the world but the rightful owner, an estate of inheritance may be gained, either by a disseizin, an abatement, or intrusion, and when the possession is unlawfully taken by a deforcement also, it follows that by a descent the heir must, in each case, gain precisely the same interest in the land, and consequently as respects all the world, he should, in every case, be viewed, upon common law principles, in the same light. In either case the heir would be a defendant to the demandant's precipe, and in every case, unless coming within some peculiar exception, the rightful owner should, to obtain the possession, resort to his remedy by action. With respect to a disseizin, it is true, the common law, by a statute of England, re-enacted by the legislature of this country, has so far undergone a change, as to require a possession for five years, and the casting of a descent to toll the disseizees right of entry, but that statute is held not to apply to either of the other species of ouster, nor to the alienee of a disseizor. Coke Lit. 238. By particular statute the common law has, in cases of disseizin, so suffered a change as to require five year's possession, together with a descent cast to toll the right of entry, but this statute does not apply to any other species of ouster. But a descent in no case tolls the right of entry of a feme covert, infant, person of non sane memory, or those absent from the country, to none of whom laches are ascribed. *4 By whatever name then, the ouster of Steele is called, as he was seized of the inheritance, and continued in the possession for more than five years, his heirs, as they appear not to have otherwise become interested, must have come to the estate by descent, and having gained an apparent right of possession, could not, upon general principles, have been evicted by entry, and consequently should not, upon the same principles, succeed in the present contest. But to the general principle there are various exceptions. Thus, as infants, feme coverts, persons of unsound mind, and those absent from the country, are not supposed to be guilty of any laches in failing to assert their rights; after the removal of their disabilities, notwithstanding a descent may have been cast, they are allowed to obtain the possession by entry. Littleton, secs. 402, 403; 3 Com. dig. 485; Blac. Com. 177. So where there is a title of entry only, and no remedy by action, the casting of a descent is said not to take away the right to enter. 3 Com. dig. 486; Coke Lit. 240, let. b. When the rightful owner can not maintain a reaction, but has only a right of entry, it is not tolled by a descent cast and five years' lapse. As the rightful owner can only maintain a real action on actual seizin and taking explees, a descent cast and the lapse of five years do not toll his right of entry, unless he hath had actual seizin. Unless, however, the case of Taylor falls within the latter of these exceptions, it is perfectly clear that his right of entry can not, by reason of either of the former, be preserved. For although Barbour, the heir at law to the patentee, and under whom Taylor claims, is proven to have been an infant and absent from the country when Steele entered upon the land; yet it moreover appears, that at Steele's death the heir had not only arrived at full age, but was also within the country. And whether the case comes within the latter exception, turns upon the question, whether or not Barbour, the patentee, without having entered upon the land, or obtained any other seizin than that conferred upon him by the grant could have maintained any real action for the land? He certainly could not, as was held by this court in the case of  Buford against Speed, 3 Bibb, 57, and in the case of Hendly v. White, spring term, 1818, have maintained a writ of right. Nor do we suppose that such a seizin could have authorized him to bring any other real action. That such a seizin is insufficient, is not only inferable from the demandant's count, invariable in each species of action, containing a charge of either himself or his ancestor having been seized by the taking of the explees; but it is moreover confirmed by the authority of Lord Coke upon the subject. For, says he, "because a devisee or patentee has but a title of entry, and no remedy by action, a descent will not toll their right of entry." Coke Lit. 240. See also Grounds and Rudiments of Law, 50, 51. *5 Because, therefore, the court below instructed the jury that Taylor's right of entry was tolled by the descent from Steele, the judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1818. Taylor v. Steele's Heirs 1 A.K.Marsh. 315, 8 Ky. 315, 1818 WL 1380 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
