(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 394,  10 Ky. 394 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1108 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Steele's Heirs v. James Logan. May 29, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 72 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(F) Verdict or Findings Contrary to Law or Evidence 275k67 Verdict Contrary to Evidence 275k72 k. Weight of Evidence. Most Cited  Cases Though the court may incline against a verdict, it should not on that account be set aside. To justify setting aside a verdict, it must be palpably against the evidence. New Trial 275 k 143(2) 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k141 Affidavits and Testimony of Jurors 275k143 Impeachment of Verdict 275k143(2) k. Misconduct of or Affecting Jurors. Most  Cited Cases On a motion for a new trial, the affidavits and testimony of jurors, going to impeach the validity of their verdict on the ground of their own misconduct, are not admissible. Appeal and Error 30 k 1003 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(I) Questions of Fact, Verdicts, and Findings 30XVI(I)2 Verdicts 30k1003 k. Against Weight of Evidence. Most Cited  Cases A verdict or finding by the jury will not be disturbed as against the evidence because of a mere preponderance of evidence against it, but will be set aside only when it is palpably against the weight of evidence, or clearly shows that the jury were mistaken, or were influenced by passion, prejudice, or corruption. Evidence 157 k 121(4) 157 Evidence 157IV Admissibility in General 157IV(B) Res Gestae;  Excited Utterances 157k120 Acts and Statements Accompanying or Connected  with Transaction or Event 157k121 In  General 157k121(4) k. Motive and Intent in General. Most  Cited Cases The declarations of a party, at the time of putting a tenant in possession of land, are evidence in his favor of his intention in so doing. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This appeal is taken from a judgment of the circuit court, rendered in favor of Logan on a verdict found for him in an action of ejectment which he brought in that court against the heirs of Richard Steele. The trial was had on the general issue; and during its progress Logan introduced and read as evidence to the jury a deed of conveyance for the land in contest from his father David Logan, to him bearing date the 8th of November, 1800; and introduced a witness to prove that in 1802, he put a tenant in possession of the land, claiming it as his own and at the same time saying he had a deed for it;--but the Steeles contending that the deed from David Logan was fraudulent, and antedated to overreach the deed under which they claim, and which was made in pursuance to a decree pronounced in their favor against David Logan, objected to the evidence which the witness was introduced to prove; but the objections were overruled and the evidence permitted to go to the jury. *2 Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the court; and by the assignment of errors the propriety of admitting evidence is questioned. That it was competent for Logan to prove the fact of his having put a tenant in possession of the land in 1802, is a proposition admitting of no controversy. It was competent because in most if not in all cases the fact of possession conduces in some degree to the proof of the title. The fact of possession is in itself sufficient evidence of title to many purposes. It will sustain an action of trespass for any violence committed on the possession by persons having no title. It will authorize restitution of the possession from such as may have forcibly entered; and it is said that in an ejectment, if it appear by the record of a special verdict that the plaintiff has priority of possession and no title is found for the defendant the plaintiff shall have judgment. 3 Saund. Rep. 111. In fine the possession of lands so connects itself with the title that there can be no complete and perfect title without having been united to the possession. Without possession there may be a title of entry in lands; but until an entry is in fact made, there can be no complete and perfect title to the lands. Possession is essential to a perfect title to lands; before entry the owner has only a right of entry, but to consummate the title an entry is necessary. Possession will maintain trespass against one having no title; it will sustain a warrant for forcible entry; and a prior possession will maintain an ejectment against one having no ??e. But whilst it must be conceded to be competent for a plaintiff in ejectment to prove that he has had possession of the land such proof cannot be admitted to be conclusive evidence of title. The fact of possession creates a presumption of title more or less violent, according to the circumstances with which it may be connected; but the presumption which it creates is a presumption of fact, and may be repelled or explained away by the introduction of extraneous evidence. Possession is presumptive evidence of title, but may be repelled by other evidence. If then we are correct in supposing that it was competent for Logan to prove the fact of his having put a tenant in the possession of the land; and if we are not mistaken in supposing that the degree in which the fact of possession conduces to prove title, is regulated by concomitant circumstances it cannot have been incorrect for the court below to permit the witness introduced by Logan to prove all the circumstances which occurred at the time of putting the tenant in possession. The declarations of a party at the time of doing an act, compose a part of the act itself, and an evidence of the intention with which the act was done. In stating those circumstances, it is true, the witness detailed statements which were made by Logan himself; but as the statements were made by him at the time of taking the possession they constituted part of the act of taking the possession; and for the purpose of proving the nature and true character of that act, were properly admitted as evidence by the court. *3 In Philips' treatise on Evidence, 20-2, it is said that where it is necessary in the course of a cause to enquire into the nature of a particular act and the intention of the person who did it, proof of what the person said at the time of doing it is admissible evidence for the purpose of showing its true character. And in illustration of this general proposition, the author proceeds and among others gives the following examples:--Thus, says he, in an action by the assignees of a bankrupt, the bankrupt's declarations at the time of absenting himself from home, are properly received in evidence to show the nature of his absence; and where the question was whether the trader's departure from his dwelling house amounted to an act of bankruptcy, the court of king's bench were of opinion that the reasons which he gave if his absence, after his return home, were admissible evidence in explanation of his own act. The principle thus laid down by Philips and recognized in the cases put in illustration, apply forcibly to the case now under consideration, and prove the propriety of permitting the witness to state the declarations made by Logan at the time he put the tenant in the possession of the land. There might have been more room to doubt of the propriety of the evidence, of the chancery suit through which the Steeles claim title had been commenced before the time Logan put the tenant in possession; but that suit appears not to have been commenced for some years thereafter, and Logan may not then have known that such a suit would be commenced. After the jury had found a verdict for Logan the counsel for Steeles moved the court for a new trial on the grounds-- 1st. That the verdict was contrary to law and evidence: 2. That one of the jurors had made up and expressed an opinion favorable to Logan, before he was sworn: 3. That the same juror, without being sworn to give evidence, and after the jury retired from the bar to consult of their verdict, communicated material and important facts in relation to the matter in issue, to the rest of the jury. The motion was, however, overruled, and all the evidence given on the trial, together with the affidavits used on the application for a new trial spread upon the record. The affidavits of jurors of what transpires in their room, should not be received on a motion for a new trial. Whether, therefore, a new trial should have been awarded, is the remaining question for the determination of this court. The second and third ground relied on for a new trial, may be considered together; and their sufficiency to authorize the granting a new trial, turns, exclusively, on the competency of the affidavits of part of the jury to prove that another of the jury, whilst consulting of their verdict, stated facts in relation to the matter in contest which ought properly to have been given in evidence at the bar, and in the presence of the court and parties. That any impropriety in the mode pursued by the jury, (such as drawing lots for whom the verdict should be found) could not be proven by the affidavits of any of the jury on an application for a new trial, was conceded in argument; but a distinction was taken and attempted to be maintained between such a case and the case now under consideration; and whilst all intention to disturb the doctrine conceded was disclaimed, it was urged that the affidavits of the jurors were competent for the purpose of proving that others of the jury, whilst consulting of their verdict made statements which should only have been given in evidence in the presence of the court and the parties to the contest. *4 The distinction taken was not, however, attempted to be maintained by the production of any adjudged case; and after the most attentive research, this court has been unable to find any case supporting such a distinction. The only case we have met with that seems to have a direct bearing on the question is contained in 1 Hen. and Mun. Rep. 388; but that case, so far from maintaining the distinction taken in argument, is an authority directly in opposition to it. That was an action of debt on a bond, and the trial was had on an issue taken to the plea of payment. A new trial was then moved for on the ground of two of the jury having been influenced to find for the plaintiff in consequence of another of the jury, whilst in the jury room stating that he knew the testator of the defendant, and that he was so correct a man in his affairs, that he would have taken a receipt on the bond, if it had been paid. These facts were admitted as if proved by the affidavits of two of the jury; but it was held not to be sufficient to authorize a new trial. But throwing out of view all adjudications, public policy forbids the introduction of the juror's affidavits to prove anything which may have transpired in the jury room whilst consulting of their verdict. To allow verdicts to be overturned by the evidence of jurors, would open a door for tampering with the jury, and might lead to consequences, in their operation on judicial proceedings, of a very mischievous and pernicious character. To guard against such consequences, it is better the door should be at once closed against the introduction of the jurors as evidence to overturn their verdict. It was, therefore, correct to refuse a new trial on the evidence contained in the affidavit of the jurors in this case. Though the court may incline against a verdict, it should not, on that account, be set aside; to justify setting aside a verdict, it should be palpably against evidence. We are also of opinion that the first ground relied on, contains no sufficient cause for awarding a new trial. The evidence is of a character proper to be weighed and decided by the jury. It is not enough to authorize a new trial on the ground of the verdict being against evidence that the impression of the court on the evidence may be different from that of the jury, but the preponderance of evidence should be clearly and palpably against the verdict. Such is not, however, the present case. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Pope, Haggin and Hardin for ap'lts, Wickliffe for ap'lee. Ky.App. 1821. Steele's Heirs v. Logan 3 A.K.Marsh. 394, 10 Ky. 394, 1821 WL 1108 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
