(Cite as: 4 Bibb 323,  7 Ky. 323 (Ky.),  1816 WL 745 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Creery v. Lewis. Apr. 19, 1816. *1 A case in which the subject matter was adjudged not cognizable in chancery, but at law. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases A. and B. gave their obligation to C. on a contract which was afterwards canceled.  A. entered into a new contract with C., and gave him the same obligation for security.  Held, that A.'s liability was not affected by B.'s not joining in the delivery, and that the case was not cognizable in equity, but must be tried in a court of law. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. Judge LOGAN absent. THIS is an appeal from a decree of the Court below pronounced in favor of Lewis in a suit brought by him in that Court against the appellant. The decree is objected to exclusively on the grounds that the subject of contest is properly cognizable in a Court of Law, and not in equity. As relief was sought upon an express contract for the sale of merchandise, unless a Court of Chancery can take cognizance of the cause for the purpose of compelling a discovery from the appellant, it is perfectly clear the appellee should be left to pursue his remedy at law. Assuming as true the allegations of the appellant's bill, so far from showing any necessity for a discovery from the appellant, they incontestably prove the appellee might have been relieved in an action at law; for it is expressly alleged, the appellant for the purpose of securing the payment of the amount of merchandise which he is charged to have purchased from the appellee, delivered an obligation which had been previously executed by him and his brother John M'Creery to the appellee and a certain William Rogers; and although the contract for which that obligation was first executed, by the mutual consent of the parties, was canceled before the contract between the present parties was entered into, yet it is plain that a subsequent delivery of the obligation by the appellant, for the purpose of securing the appellee's demand, gave it an effectual obligatory force against him. The circumstance of John M'Creery not having delivered the obligation also, cannot affect the case; for although it may not be binding upon him, that cannot alter the liability of the appellee or prevent an action from being maintained against him. If then we are correct in supposing that from the allegations of the bill the obligation alluded to is binding upon the appellant, it inevitably results that no discovery was necessary to enable the appellee to recover at law; for as the obligation is admitted to be for a sum sufficiently large to cover the demand, when (as is alleged to be the case) it is also admitted to be obligatory on the appellant, without the discovery of any other fact, a remedy perfectly plain and ample is afforded the appellee. Indeed so far from the discovery of the amount being necessary on the part of the appellee, if no other evidence was attainable, it might be essential for the appellant to seek such a discovery for the purpose of preventing a recovery against him to the full amount of the obligation. *2 As from the allegations of the bill, therefore, it was obviously unnecessary to obtain a discovery from the appellant, the Court below should not for that cause, although a discovery was charged to be unnecessary, have entertained jurisdiction. The decree must consequently be reversed, the cause remanded and the bill dismissed, because the matter incontest is exclusively cognizable at law. The appellant must recover his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1816. McCreery v. Lewis 4 Bibb 323, 7 Ky. 323, 1816 WL 745 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
