(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 225,  19 Ky. 225 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1278 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hawkins v. Embry. May 26, 1826. *1 Evidence. Answer. Suppletory and Corroborative Proofs. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 345 150 Equity 150V Evidence 150k338 Answer as Evidence 150k345 k. Evidence to Overcome Answer. Most Cited  Cases Where the answer denies the allegations of the bill, the complainant must support his case by two witnesses, or one with corroborating circumstances. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a decree, pronounced by the court below, giving to Embry, who was complainant, relief against a judgment recovered against him at law by Hawkins. Bill for injunction to a judgment at law. It is unnecessary to inquire what should have been the decree of the court, if the facts alleged in the bill of Embry had been made out by sufficient evidence to authorize the interposition of a court of equity, in as much as the allegation of the bill are flatly denied by the answer of Hawkins, and there is but one witness whose evidence conduces to prove any thing inconsistent with the answer, though there are others whose testimony corroborates the statements of the answer. Where the answer flatly denies the allegations of the bill, the complainant must support his case by two witnesses, or one with corroborating circumstances. See Ante. Under such a state of evidence, it would be incompatible with the established principles by which courts of equity are governed, to decree relief. No rule of chancery practice is better settled, and none more frequently acted upon than that which forbids a decree in favor of the complainant upon a bill supported by a single witness only, and flatly denied by the answer of the defendant. Aware of this rule, the counsel of Embry endeavored, in argument to evade its force by drawing in aid of the witness, statements made by Embry in his response to an answer filed in this case by Hawkins, and which, in the nature of a cross bill, Embry was required to answer. But were the statements of Embry, so far as they are responsive to the allegations which he was called upon by Hawkins to answer, admitted to be true, still we should entertain the opinion that relief ought not to be decreed. The material facts, upon which alone the court could be authorized to interpose its aid, would still rest upon the evidence of a single witness, and not even sufficiently corroborated, by the responsive statements of Embry himself, to do away the force of Hawkins' denial in his answer under the rule in chancery to which we have adverted. Query--May complainant's answer to interrogatories put to him by defendant, in his answer in the nature of a cross bill, be taken for the suppletory or corroborating evidence with plaintiff's single witness. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered dismissing Embry's bill with cost, &c. Turner, for plaintiff; Caperton, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Hawkins v. Embry 3 T.B.Mon. 225, 19 Ky. 225, 1826 WL 1278 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
