(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 422,  21 Ky. 422 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1583 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jones v. Chappell. Oct. 4, 1827. *1 Contracts. Compromise. Fraud. Garnishee. Continuance. Error. Depositions. Practice. ERROR TO THE HARDIN CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Names 269 k 14 269 Names 269k14 k. Identity. Most Cited Cases Where a surety on an injunction bond would be incompetent as a witness in an action, the court will not presume that a witness on the stand is the same person as the surety on the bond, because of the identity of their names. Trusts 390 k 95 390 Trusts 390I Creation, Existence, and Validity 390I(C) Constructive Trusts 390k95 k. Fraud or other wrong in acquisition of property  in general. Most Cited Cases An owner of slaves sold them on credit, the purchaser executing an obligation for the residue of the purchase price.  A third person, by false statements as to the ownership of the slaves, induced such owner to surrender to the purchaser his obligations for the purchase money, and such purchaser to give him the like obligations. Afterwards such owner discovering the fraud filed a bill against such third person and the purchaser, praying to be decreed the benefit of a judgment, which such third person had recovered on the bond which had been executed by the purchaser to him. Held, that it was proper to consider such purchaser, as respecting the deed, as a trustee for the use of the owner, and to secure to him the money due on the judgment. Appeal and Error 30 k 203.2 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(B) Objections and Motions, and Rulings Thereon 30k202 Evidence and Witnesses 30k203.2 k. Depositions. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 30k203(2)) Objections to the admission of depositions cannot be raised for the first time on appeal. Compromise and Settlement 89 k 8(3) 89 Compromise and Settlement 89I In General 89k7 Validity 89k8 Reality of Assent 89k8(3) k. Fraud or duress. Most Cited  Cases A compromise based on the false representations of one of the parties cannot be sustained. Compromise and Settlement 89 k 19(2) 89 Compromise and Settlement 89I In General 89k19 Impeachment or Setting Aside 89k19(2) k. Opening, correcting, or setting aside. Most Cited  Cases A court of equity will exercise great care in setting aside a compromise. Equity 150 k 369 150 Equity 150VIII Hearing, Submission of Issues to Jury, and Rehearing 150k369 k. Condition of cause. Most Cited Cases Where the parties appeared, and made no objection at the time, it was held that it could not be assigned for error that the cause was tried the term the answer was filed. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. *2 Statement. Chappell sold to a man by the name of Ditto, three negroes, a woman and her two children, for the price of eight hundred and fifty dollars, four hundred and fifty dollars of which sum, was paid by Ditto, and an obligation executed by him to Chappell, for the residue of the price. Before this obligation was discharged by Ditto, Jones, who resided in the state of Virginia, came to this country, claimed the negroes which had been purchased by Ditto, as belonging to him and his brothers, and threatened to sue for them. After some altercation, an agreement was concluded between Jones and Chappell, whereby the difference was adjusted, Jones' claim to the negroes surrendered, the obligation which Ditto had given to Chappell delivered up, and a new bond for the same amount executed by Ditto to Jones. By the agreement other sums were to be paid by Chappell, but according to the view we have taken of this case, it is not necessary to make further mention of them. Jones then returned to Virginia, and Chappell, discovering, as he alleges, that in making the agreement, he had been imposed on and deluded by the fraudulent misrepresentations and artifice of Jones, exhibited his bill in equity, against Jones and Ditto, praying to be decreed the benefit of the judgment which Jones had recovered at law, upon the bond which had been executed by Ditto to Jones, under the agreement, and that Jones be enjoined from the collection of the judgment, &c. Chappell's bill to set aside the contract, and for injunction. An injunction was granted in accordance to the prayer of the bill, and on a final hearing the injunction was made perpetual, and Chappell permitted to use the name of Jones in collecting the judgment against Ditto. Decree of the circuit court. To reverse that decree, this writ of error has been prosecuted by Jones. If, an account of the fraud, it was correct to make any decree in favor of Chappell, the decree which was rendered, is evidently as favorable to Jones as it should be. The judgment against Ditto is not only part of the price, which he was by the purchase from Chappell, to have paid for the negroes, but it was moreover obtained, upon a bond which he executed to Jones in pursuance to the agreement between Ditto and Chappell, in relation to the negroes. The judgment is therefore justly due from Ditto, and if, through the fraud of Jones, the obligation which Ditto had previously given to Chappell, was delivered up, and the bond for the same sum executed to Jones, the money due from Ditto ought in justice to be paid to Chappell; and it surely can not be incompatible with the principles of equity, to consider Ditto, as respects that debt, in the light of a trustee for the use of Chappell, and to secure to Chappell the money due on the judgment. It is peculiarly proper to do so, not only on account of the circumstances of the transaction, but because Jones resides out of this state, and it is only by acting upon the debt due from Ditto, who is within the jurisdiction of the court, that justice can be done, and the fraud, if any, committed by Jones, relieved against. *3 C. sold certain slaves to D. on a credit; J., a non-resident, came to the state and claimed them and by false statements obtained C. to surrender to D. his obligations for the purchase money, and D. to give him the like bonds; afterwards C. discovers the fraud--held he may have a decree for the benefit of the judgments at law, J. had in the mean time recovered on the bond against D. And that in making the agreement, Chappell was overreached by the misrepresentations and fraud of Jones, we think an attentive examination of the depositions contained in the record fully prove. Nothing is more clear, than that neither Jones nor his brothers, for whom he claimed the negroes, had any right to them; and it is quite evident from the proof, that Jones, by falsely representing that he and his brothers were entitled to the negroes by a deed of entailment which was executed to them by their deceased father in his lifetime, induced Chappell, who had been the husband of their deceased mother, and who appeared to be a credulous old man, to confide in his representations, and conclude the agreement by which the bond was executed by Ditto. Case of a compromise obtained by fraud. The claim of Jones must, it is true, have been made known to Chappell before the agreement was entered into, so that the agreement ought to be considered in the light of a compromise between the parties of an existing controversy, and we know full well, that courts of equity at all times observe great circumspection in relieving against contracts of that sort. Courts of equity are disinclined to set aside contracts of compromise-- But the disinclination of the court to meddle with such contracts, ought never to be the means of sanctioning unfair and fraudulent conduct. The parties may justly buy their peace on their own terms, and when honestly and fairly done, their contracts should be the law for the court. But fraud, in every possible shape is odious; it vitiates all contracts, and whenever perceived, it wakens the energy, and puts in action the justice of the court. It would, therefore, be contrary to the usage and principles of equity to permit Jones to enjoy the benefit of the contract, which was procured through his fraudulent misrepresentations. It was proper in the court below to relieve against it. But-- Where the compromise is obtained by fraudulent misrepresentations, the court will rescind it. In the preceding remarks, we have omitted to notice some objections which were taken in argument, and which do not go so much to the merits, as to the regularity of the preparation of the cause in the court below; but we did so, because we discovered nothing substantial in those objections. It was first objected that the cause ought not to have been heard at the time it was, because as it was contended, the answer of the defendant was not filed until the term at which the cause was heard. But if the fact be so, it is sufficient to remark that the parties appeared by their counsel at the hearing, and having failed to object to the cause being taken up, it is now too late to object in this court. *4 Where the record shews the parties appeared and there was no objection made to the hearing, it can not be assigned for error that the cause was tried the term the answer was filed. It was again objected, that the court erred in permitting one of the depositions that was read, to be used as evidence, in the cause. The deposition to which the objection is taken, is said to be the deposition of one of the sureties in the injunction bond, which was executed in this case, and hence it is insisted, that the witness is incompetent, and that his deposition should have been excluded. It may however be remarked that there is no proof in the cause, that the witness whose deposition is objected to, is the same person that signed the injunction bond. It is true, the name of the witness is the same as that which is subscribed to the bond; but there may be more than one person by the same name, and as there was no objection to the deposition in the court below, we ought not to presume the witness to be the same person that signed the bond. This court will not presume a witness and a security in the injunction bond, are the same person, merely from the identity of the name where that allegation had not been made below. But were it even in proof, that the witness is the same person, still the objection now taken in this court for the first time, could not be sustained. It was competent for the parties to waive objections to the competency of the witnesses in the court below, and it is but reasonable to presume that they have done so, when as in this case, the record shows no objection to the depositions; such has been the repeated decisions of this court. Objections to depositions can not be made here for the first time. The decree must be affirmed with cost. Wickliffe, for plaintiff; Chapeze, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Jones v. Chappell 5 T.B.Mon. 422, 21 Ky. 422, 1827 WL 1583 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
