(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 19,  8 Ky. 19 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1128 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wm. T. Banton v. Hoomes' Exec'rs. Oct. 15, 1817. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 7 -Off and Counterclaim352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352I Nature and Grounds of Remedy 352k4 Grounds and Scope of Remedy 352k7 k. Statutory set-off. Most Cited Cases In an action upon a promissory note the defendant may, by way of set-off, endeavor to correct any mistake in the settlement for which the note was given. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 44(1) -Off and Counterclaim352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k43 Joint and Separate Claims and Liabilities 352k44 In General 352k44(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases In an action brought by an executor, a claim against the plaintiff in his individual capacity cannot be pleaded in set-off. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment of the court below, rendered in favor of the appellees, in an action brought by them against the appellant, upon the following writing: Lexington, 9th August, 1811. "On a settlement this day, I acknowledge myself to be indebted to the estate of John Hoomes, deceased, the sum of five hundred and twenty dollars and fifty cents, money actually received by me, &c. WILLIAM T. BANTON." On the trial in that court, the appellee attempted to prove, by way of set-off, that Hoomes, in his lifetime, was indebted to him for the keeping of a horse, and also the payment of a sum of money to the order of one of the appellants; but the court being of opinion that the evidence was inadmissible, excluded it from the jury. As the writing upon which the suit was brought, implies an acknowledgment of a debt due Hoomes in his life-time, it was certainly competent for Banton, upon showing a mistake in the settlement, to avail himself by way of set-off, of any debt due him by the decedent in his lifetime. A def't by way of set off, may endeavor to correct any mistake in a settlement for which the note is given, and his evidence conducing to prove such mistake should be submitted to the jury. The evidence, therefore, introduced by Banton, as it tended not only to shew a mistake in the settlement, but conduced also to prove the decedent to be indebted to him for keeping the horse, it should have been left with the jury for their determination. The claim of Banton for keeping the horse, to be availing as a set-off, should, no doubt, be of that description for which indebitatus assumpsit could be maintained, but as the evidence conduced in some measure to prove such a debt, the court did wrong to exclude it from the jury. A demand to be availing as a set off, should be of a character to maintain indebitatus assumpsit,--vide note FNa. FNa. Liquidated debts may be set off, but not those which are unliquidated-- Webb v. Fitch, 1 Root, 177; Brown v. Cumming, 2 Caine's T. Rep. 33; Kackler v. Mulhallon, 2 Dallas, 237; Hogg v.  Ash, 1 Hayward, 471;  Hard.  150;   1 Wash.  70. *2 With respect to the evidence in relation to the payment made to the order of one of the appellees, we are of opinion it was properly rejected. That evidence could only shew a debt against one of the appellees in his individual right, and as such was clearly inadmissible as a set-off against a debt due the testator. A demand due from a person who is ex'or, but is due in his individual capacity, can not be set off against a demand due the testator. FNb. FNb. There must be mutuality in the debt demanded and that attempted to be set off--thus, if A sue B and C on a joint note to A, a debt due by A, either to B or C, may be set off--Vide 2 Taylor, 391. Yet a debt due from an individual partner, can not be set off against a partnership demand--vide Scott v. Trents, 1 Wash 77; Armstead v. Butler, 1 Hen. and Mum. 176;  Powrie v. Fletcher, 2 Bay, 146. The lessee of land from an executor, can not purchase judgments against the ex'or, and set them off against the rent due the ex'or.--White v. Bannister, 1 Wash., 167. The judgment must, however, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Haggin, for appellant; Wickliffe, for appellee. Ky.App. 1817. Banton v. Hoomes' Ex'rs 1 A.K.Marsh. 19, 8 Ky. 19, 1817 WL 1128 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
