(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 73,  17 Ky. 73 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1488 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Condict v. Stevens. Oct. 11, 1824. *1 Appeals to the Circuit Courts, Pleading, Evidence. ERROR TO THE OHIO CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 174(6) 231 Justices of the Peace 231V Review of Proceedings 231V(A) Appeal and Error 231k170 Trial of Cause Anew 231k174 Proceedings Relating to Parties, Process, and  Pleading 231k174(6) k. Power and Discretion of Court to Allow  New or Amended Pleadings. Most Cited Cases A party may, in the discretion of the appellate court, file a declaration containing a cause of action cognizable by a justice. Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 20 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k17 Pleading 42k20 k. Plea or Affidavit of Defense. Most Cited Cases The plea of nil debet is inappropriate in assumpsit. Evidence 157 k 165(1) 157 Evidence 157V Best and Secondary Evidence 157k160 Contents of Writings 157k165 Conveyances, Contracts, and Other Instruments 157k165(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Parol evidence is inadmissible to show the terms of a written contract, when the writing itself is in existence, and obtainable. Evidence 157 k 397(1) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k397 Contracts in General 157k397(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Parol evidence is inadmissible to contradict or vary the terms of a contract, in the absence of either fraud, accident, or mistake in its procurement. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This writ of error is prosecuted to a judgment recovered by Stevens, in the circuit court, on the trial of an appeal taken from the decision of a justice of the peace, dismissing a warrant which had been sued out by Stevens. Upon calling the cause in the circuit court, Stevens presented a declaration in assumpsit, containing the cause of complaint for which he had sued out the warrant from the justice, and though objected to by Condict, the declaration was permitted to be filed. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the court, and the first question made by the assignment of errors, controverts the propriety of allowing the declaration to be filed. (1.) In a proceeding of this sort, it would, no doubt, be irregular to permit the plaintiff in the warrant to file a declaration containing matter not cognizable before a justice of the peace; but we suppose the matter contained in the declaration of Stevens, to be cognizable before a justice; and whenever that is the case, the act regulating such proceedings allows the plaintiff in the warrant to file a declaration, subject, however, to the control of the court, in the exercise of a sound discretion. The objection to filing of the declaration can not, therefore, be sustained. *2 (1) In an appeal from a justice to the circuit court, it would be irregular to permit the plaintiff in the warrant to file a declaration containing matter not cognizable by the justice--Argu. But a declaration containing a cause of action of which the justice had jurisdiction, may be filed, subject to the control of the court, exercising its sound discretion. (2.) After the declaration was filed, Condict tendered a plea, which was demurred to by Stevens, and the demurrer was sustained by the court. (2) Nil debet to a declaration in assumpsit, is ill on demurrer. The next question raised by the assignment of errors, questions the decision upon the demurrer. The decision is, however, in the opinion of the court, correct. Passing over any objection which might be raised to the form of the plea, it may be considered in substance a denial by Condict, of his owing Stevens any part of the demand set forth in the declaration; and the doctrine is well settled, that nil debet is an insufficient plea to an action of assumpsit. Thus, it is said, when the defendant pleads a plea not adapted to the nature of the action, as nil debet in assumpsit, &c. the plaintiff may consider it as a nullity, and sign judgment. 1 Tidd's Prac. 506. (3.) The next question made by the assignment of errors, involves the correctness of the decision of the court, in not excluding parol evidence introduced by Stevens. (3) Where the contract is written, the party in possession of the writing can neither prove the terms of the contract, nor change the import of the writing by parol evidence. The parol evidence went to show the nature and extent of the contract upon which the demand of Stevens is founded, and it would, no doubt, have been admissible, if the contract had not been reduced to writing. But the contract appears to have been committed to writing by the parties thereto, and as the writing was in the possession of Stevens, and by him brought into court, it was incompetent either to prove the terms of the contract or change the import of the writing by parol testimony. The parol evidence ought, therefore, to have been excluded, and the court erred in not doing so. The judgment must, consequently, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Haggin and Huston, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1824. Condict v. Stevens 1 T.B.Mon. 73, 17 Ky. 73, 1824 WL 1488 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
