(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 353,  19 Ky. 353 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1314 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Graves &c. v. Downey &c. Oct. 4, 1826. *1 Executors, &c. Administrators de bonis non. Husband and Wife. Sureties. Demurrer. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 88 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k83 Discovery and Collection of Assets 162k88 k. Debts Due from Executor or Administrator. Most  Cited Cases Where a feme covert administratrix dies, an administrator de bonis non is entitled to whatever of the estate of the intestate remains in her hands in specie, and the remainder the husband must distribute. Equity 150 k 232 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(E) Demurrer, Exceptions, and Motions 150k232 k. Demurrer to Bill Good in Part. Most Cited  Cases A demurrer to a whole bill must be overruled if the bill taken altogether entitles complainant to some kind of relief. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Administration. Some time prior to May, 1802, William Roberson departed this life childless, leaving a widow, Mary Ann Roberson. At the May court, 1802, of Montgomery county, administration of his estate was granted to his widow, and she shortly thereafter married Samuel Downey. The widow and administratrix, together with her husband, Samuel Downey, entered upon the duties of the administration, and actually sold, of the estate of said Roberson, goods and chattels to the amount of two hundred and four pounds one shilling and sevenpence, and returned to the county court, a sale bill thereof. At the time of Roberson's death, he was the owner and possessor of a negro boy, which has ever since been hired out by the widow and her husband Downey. Sale bill. At the August court, 1811, of the said county of Montgomery, commissioners were appointed to settle the accounts in relation to the estate of the said Roberson, with the administratrix and her husband Downey. A settlement was accordingly made by the commissioners, a report thereof, returned to court, and at the November court, 1811, ordered to be recorded. By this settlement, the administratrix and her husband were charged with the amount of property sold by them in their fiduciary capacity, and the amount for which the negro boy had been hired the several successive years from Roberson's death up to the settlement, together with the debts owing Roberson at his death, making in the whole, five hundred and twenty-one pounds ten shillings and three pence. This sum was credited by various payments, accounts, &c. made and exhibited by the administratrix and her husband, and allowed by the commissioners, amounting in the whole to two hundred and one pounds, eighteen shillings and eightpence halfpenny. Settlement with the administrator, by the commissioners of the county court. *2 According to this settlement there is a balance of three hundred and nineteen pounds fourteen shillings and sixpence halfpenny, against the administratrix and her husband. To recover their distributive shares of this balance, together with the further sums for which the negro had been hired since the date of the settlement, and to obtain partition of the negro, the collateral kindred and distributees of William Roberson, deceased, exhibited their bill in equity against the sureties in the administration bond and Samuel Downey, his wife the administratrix having departed this life. This bill was not exhibited until September, 1823, and after stating the preceding facts among other things, charges that no debts remain against the estate, and that Downey continues to hold the negro, and hire him out for his own benefit, &c. Bill by the distributees, against the surviving husband of the deceased administratrix and her sureties. Downey and the sureties in the administration bond, demurred to the bill, and the court sustained the demurrer, and dismissed the bill with cost. Demurrer sustained and bill dismissed. From that decree the heirs &c. have appealed. That Downey and the sureties are liable for the estate, is a proposition so obvious, that none, it is presumed, will attempt to controvert it. For a devastavit of the estate by the wife, before her marriage, Downey, it is true, could not, after her death, be made to account; but according to the allegations of the bill, and the exhibits therein referred to, it is apparent, that all the estate for which a recovery is sought in the present cause, came to the possession of Downey after his marriage; and the doctrine is well settled, that for any acts of his as administrator, in right of his wife, he remains accountable, though his wife may not be living. Husband is not accountable after his wife's death, for her devastavit as administratrix, committed before the marriage.___ --But for estate which came to hand during the coverture, he remains liable. And with respect to the sureties, their liability is conclusively fixed by the terms of the bond, in which they united with the administratrix. But admitting their liability, the question occurs, can they be made accountable by bill in equity, exhibited by the heirs and distributees of the intestate Roberson? In argument it was not controverted, but what a bill in equity is the proper mode, and might have been sustained by the distributees, if the wife of Downey, who was the administratrix, was still living, and a party to the suit; but as she is dead, it was contended that an administrator de bonis non of the estate of the intestate Roberson, should be appointed and that when so appointed, the appellees would be compellable to account for the estate to him, and that until appointed, the distributees have no right to the aid of a court of equity. Were it true, that if appointed, the administrator de bonis non, would be entitled to all the estate for which a demand is asserted by the distributees in the present case, there would certainly be great force in the argument. *3 In such case, the husband surviving the wife administratrix, shall distribute all the estate which came to his hands during the coverture, except what remains in kind. The same reason that forbids the distributees of an intestate, before any administration is granted, from exhibiting their bill against a stranger who may be indebted to the intestate for an account, would seem also to preclude the distributees, after the death of the administrator, and before the appointment of an administrator de bonis non, from bringing a bill against any person, to compel an account for personal matters, to which an administrator de bonis non would be entitled, and it has heretofore been decided, and we apprehend correctly, that until administration is granted, no bill can be sustained by the heirs and distributees, to compel persons liable to the estate, to account for personal things. But there is a considerable portion of the demand set up by the appellants, to which the administrator de bonis non, if appointed, would not be entitled, and for the recovery of which, he could sustain no suit or action. Such an administrator would, no doubt, be entitled to whatever of the estate of the intestate remains in the hands of Downey, in specie; for whilst in that condition it forms part of the estate of the intestate, and must of course, vest in the administrator de bonis non, whenever appointed. But as respects the estate not remaining in specie, the administrator de bonis non, if appointed, would have no title, and of course such an administrator could sustain no action or suit against Downey, or the sureties in the administration bond for the hire of the negro or the goods, &c. of the intestate, which Downey and his wife converted into money. Such of the estate of the testator as remains in kind, at the death of the wife administratrix goes to the administrator de bonis non; what does not remain specie, the husband must distribute. Except as to the estate remaining in specie, therefore, there can be no necessity for administration de bonis non to be granted, to enable the complainants in the court below to sustain their bill in equity, and consequently the demurrer which went to the whole demand, set up in the bill, should have been overruled. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered, not inconsistent with the principles of this opinion. Demurrer to the whole bill, which contains any equity, must be overruled. PETITION FOR A RE-HEARING, BY J. TRIMBLE, ESQ. October 20. The counsel for the appellees, respectfully pray for a re-hearing of the appeal in this case, for the following reasons:--Downey is only a stakeholder, and although it is admitted, that he is liable to account for all the estate of the intestate that came to his hands while he was in office, yet it is important to him and his securities that payment should be rightfully made, otherwise he may be compelled to pay over again. *4 It is accorded by the court in the opinion rendered, that the heirs can not recover of Downey, the goods remaining in his hands, in specie; the principle is recognized, that if an administrator de bonis non, could compel Downey to account for the value of the goods sold by him, the heirs can not. Have not the creditors of the intestate a right to resort to this fund for the payment of their debts, and if the administrator lend money on interest, or puts it to his own use, or keeps the slaves in his own service, or hires them out, does not the interest in the one case, and the hire in the other, go with the principal as an appendage thereto? And yet, by the opinion rendered, it is respectfully suggested, that the creditors will be deprived of the benefit of this fund. Feme sole administratrix marries, her husband has the right to sell the goods.--See Toller's Law of Executors, pages 241, 242. If he sells the good, and then the wife dies, or her letters of administration are repealed, or being administrator pendente lite, or during the minority of an infant executor her office expires, the creditors can not afterwards sue the husband, and if they have actions pending, their suits will abate, because he only holds the office jointly with the wife, in right of the wife, and it does not survive to him. See Toller's Law of Executors, pages 242, 243. In either of these cases, if the opinion delivered in this case is correct, the fund arising from the sale of the goods will be withdrawn from the creditors, and they will be without remedy. The husband got the money lawfully, his right to it expires with his wife, and the question is, ought he to pay it over to a successor for sake of the creditors, or ought he to make distribution of it among the heirs? He can not lawfully make distribution, because he does not hold the office of administrator. He ought to pay it to his wife's successor, because there is no other way by which the creditors can reach it, and it is to preserve the rights of creditors, that the factitious title of an administrator is created by law. Let it not be said, that the creditors can pursue this fund into the hands of the distributees. This would prove, that administration, in all cases, is useless. But the bill alleges that there are no creditors. This allegation against Downey, is entirely immaterial; he can neither admit nor deny it, because, since he has lost the office of administrator, he does not represent the testator, nor is he responsible to the creditors, if he should falsely admit that there are no creditors; and therefore, any litigation between him and the heirs, concerning this fact, would be nugatory. But an administrator, when sued by the distributees, is bound to keep enough in his hands to pay the creditors, otherwise he is guilty of a devastavit. An administrator, after the repeal of his letters, is bound to pay over all the assets unadministered to the successor, who is always appointed de bonis non. Toller's Law of Executors, page 243. *5 And it seems equally clear, that he would be bound to account for the price of such goods as he had sold. Same book, 245. In the opinion delivered, the court seems to decide the cause upon the fact, that an administrator de bonis non, could not have any title to the goods sold. It is true, the title of the goods sold is vested in the purchasers, and can not be divested. But can the distributees claim a reversionary right to the price, upon the death of the administratrix, to the exclusion of the creditors? An administrator de bonis non, after the repeal of letters of administration, has title to the goods remaining in specie, in the hands of the former administrator, but he has no title to the goods sold by his predecessor; and yet it is earnestly, though respectfully suggested, that he has a right to call on his predecessor to account for the price, otherwise the right of the creditors would, in this state of things, be lost. An administrator de bonis non, from the nature of his office is required to administer all the estate which has not been administered by his predecessor. Now, a mere sale of the goods, and converting them into money, is not a complete administration of them. It is one step towards it, but the administration of those goods is not complete, until the money is paid to the creditors, and the surplus distributed among the next of kin. On the other hand it is believed, that no instance has ever occurred, in which the next of kin have been allowed to recover the proceeds of the personal goods, in any other way, than by a distribution, made by an administrator who would be responsible to the creditors for his fidelity; but Downey is not responsible to the creditors for any thing he may do since he went out of office, for he has lost his fiduciary character. A re-hearing is respectfuly prayed for by the defendants. JA. TRIMBLE. OCTOBER 21, 1826. On the next day, the court overruled the petition. Triplett, for plaintiffs; Trimble, for defendants. Ky.App. 1826. Graves v. Downey 3 T.B.Mon. 353, 19 Ky. 353, 1826 WL 1314 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
