(Cite as: 4 Bibb 471,  7 Ky. 471 (Ky.),  1816 WL 838 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Sanders v. Kentucky Insurance Company, Kentucky Insurance Company v. Sanders. Dec. 9, 1816. *1 Execution issued for one cent more than the judgment; the variance is a clerical misprision and may be corrected on motion to the Court, but is no cause for quashing the execution. Whether a replevin bond is taken for too much or not, cannot be inquired into in this Court; application must be made to the Court below to correct the excess, but it is no ground for quashing the bond. It is the duty of the clerk, where the first execution issued on a judgment is indorsed to receive bank notes, to make a similar indorsement on the execution which issues on the replevin bond. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 161 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k159 Quashing or Vacating Writ 161k161 k. Grounds. Most Cited Cases A clerical misprision, by which the execution varies by one cent damages from the judgment, is no ground for quashing the execution. Neither is the clerk's failure to indorse on the execution issued on the replevin bond that it was payable in bank notes, when the first execution was actually so indorsed. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE Insurance Company having recovered judgment against Sanders for $3000 debt, together with interest thereon at the rate of six per centum per annum from the 15th of July, 1815, until paid, and costs, caused an execution to issue commanding the sheriff to make of the estate of Sanders $3000 and interest thereon at the rate of six per centum per annum from the 15th July, 1815, until paid, and one cent in damages, which the president, etc., had recovered, etc., against said Sanders for their debt and damages, also $10 91 cents, their costs, etc. This execution was indorsed in the words of the act of 1814, and being levied upon the estate of Sanders he gave to the sheriff a three months' replevin bond. After the expiration of three months, another execution issued, and while it was in the hands of the sheriff Sanders moved the Court to quash both executions and the replevin bond. The first execution was sought to be quashed, because of a variance between it and the judgment. And the replevin bond was supposed to be illegal, 1. Because of an improper indorsement upon the execution; and 2. Because it was for too much. And the latter execution was contended to be irregular, 1. Because the indorsement upon it did not conform with the requisitions of the law; and 2. Because it was for too great a sum. The Court below, so far as respects the first execution and replevin bond, overruled Sanders' motion but sustained it as to the other execution; and from that decision both parties have appealed. That the decision was right in refusing to quash the first execution and the replevin bond, we have no doubt. It is perfectly clear the execution issued for the purpose of obtaining a satisfaction of the judgment of $3000, in terest and costs, which had been recovered against San ders by the plaintiff in the Court below; and although there is a variance of one cent (the damage mentioned in the execution) between the judgment and the execution, that variance is most clearly a clerical misprision, and can furnish no cause for quashing the execution. *2 With respect to the indorsement upon the execution, it conforms strictly with the requisitions of the law, and imposed upon the sheriff the duty of taking a three months' replevin bond. Whether the bond is for too much, we have not thought material to inquire: for even if it is, that would only be a cause for applying to the Court below to correct the excess, but could furnish no reason for quashing the bond. We are also of opinion the execution which issued upon the replevin bond should not have been quashed. That execution, it is true, does not contain such an indorsement upon it as the law requires; but as the execution which first issued was correctly indorsed, it became the duty of the clerk, according to the act, when he issued the latter execution, to make the necessary indorsement; and his failure to do so might have been corrected by application to the Court for that purpose, but did not justify the quashal of the execution; and if the execution issued for too much, it should have corrected by a motion to that Court. The judgment of that Court in quashing the execution must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and judgment there entered according to this opinion. Ky.App. 1816. Sanders v. Kentucky Ins. Co. 4 Bibb 471, 7 Ky. 471, 1816 WL 838 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
