(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 155,  21 Ky. 155 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1519 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wallace v. Young. Jun. 11, 1827. *1 Arson. Slander. School Houses. Statutes. ERROR TO THE TRIGG CIRCUIT; BENJAMIN SHACKLEFORD, JUDGE. West Headnotes Libel and Slander 237 k 7(7) 237 Libel and Slander 237I Words and Acts Actionable, and Liability Therefor 237k7 Words Imputing Crime and Immorality 237k7(7) k. Arson and Burning of Buildings. Most Cited  Cases A malicious charge that one willfully burnt a schoolhouse, the property of another, is actionable per se. Arson 36 k 5 36 Arson 36k1 Nature and Elements of Offenses 36k5 k. Character of Property. Most Cited Cases To burn a schoolhouse is not arson at common law. Arson 36 k 5 36 Arson 36k1 Nature and Elements of Offenses 36k5 k. Character of Property. Most Cited Cases Burning a schoolhouse is a crime, under Act 1801, s 12, fixing the punishment for burning any tobacco house, warehouse, or storehouse, etc., "or any other house or houses whatsoever." OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. In the consideration of this case, but one question is necessary to be noticed. It is whether or not to charge a person with having unlawfully and intentionally burnt a school house is actionable? To charge a person that he unlawfully and intentionally burnt a school house was not actionable at common law: Because-- Tested exclusively by the principles of the common law, this question would undoubtedly have to be decided in the negative. If actionable, it must be because the words contain a charge which, if true, would subject the person charged to criminal punishment; and nothing is more clear than at common law, arson could not be committed by burning a school house. Burning a school house was not a criminal offense by that law. But in deciding the question propounded, we should not be governed exclusively by the doctrine of the common law upon the subject of arson; the legislature of this state have, on several occasions, acted upon the subject of house burning, and it is proper that we should advert to those acts for the purpose of learning whether or not, by the existing law of this country, to burn a school house is not an offense for which the perpetrator is liable to criminal punishment. The proyision which has the most direct and immediate bearing upon the question, is contained in the twelfth section of the act of 1801, (2 Dig. L. K. 989). It is in the following words: "All and every person or persons that shall intentionally and unlawfully burn any tobacco house, ware house or store house, or any house or place where wheat, Indian corn or other grain shall be kept, or any other house or houses whatsoever, and being thereof duly convicted, shall undergo a confinement in the jail and penitentiary house, for a period not less than one year, nor more than six years." *2 Statute increasing the offenses under the denomination of arson. It will be perceived that school houses are not among the houses expressly named in the act just cited; and on the part of the defendant it is contended, that the expressions, "any other house or houses whatsoever," ought not to be construed to include any house not before mentioned in the act; and in support of the argument we were referred to cases in which the English courts, in expounding some of the statutes of that country, have by construction limited the application of general expressions used in statutes, to things which before were particularly and expressly mentioned in the statute. Whether or not, in any one of those cases, those courts have pushed the principle by which they professed to be governed in giving a construction to their statutes, too far, we shall not now stop to inquire. That penal statutes should be strictly construed is a proposition which will not be controverted by us; nor shall we deny but what there may have been used in statutes, general expressions which on account of their vague and equivocal import, should not be construed to enlarge the operation of the statutes. But we do not admit that the words, any house or houses whatsoever, are of that description. Though general, those expressions are by no means unintelligible, but they may be easily comprehended and understood by every one possessing a sufficient degree of intellect to conceive the idea of a house. Words so plain and easy to be understood, can not have been used by the legislature for no purpose, and we should evidently transcend the judicial station, were we to give them no operation. Penal statutes shall be construed strictly, but the words "any other house or houses whatsoever" in the statute against house burning, can not be rejected. But what is the operation to which they are entitled? If there were no other legislative enactment upon the subject of house burning, than that contained in the section cited, we should have no hesitation in saying, that those expressions ought to have a construction as broad as the words naturally import, and be held to embrace all houses whatever; but there are other provisions upon the subject of house burning, which are contained in other acts of the legislature, and we apprehend those expressions ought to be taken in connection with those under provisions, and so construed as to make the whole stand together, thereby comprehending in those expressions all houses whatever, not embraced in any other act. Statutes in pari materia shall be construed together. Upon this construction therefore, it follows, that school houses come within the class of houses, to burn which, the law imposes criminal punishment, and of course to charge a person with having burnt such a house is actionable. School house may be the subject of arson by the statute. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Crittenden, for plaintiff; Mayes, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Wallace v. Young 5 T.B.Mon. 155, 21 Ky. 155, 1827 WL 1519 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
