(Cite as: 5 Litt. 62,  15 Ky. 62 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1376 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hunter v. Simrall, &c. Apr. 12, 1824. *1 FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JOHN P. OLDHAM SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 129(3) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k129 Part Performance in General 185k129(3) k. Agreements Relating to Real Property in General.  Most Cited Cases Where a deed is executed and delivered, and possession taken thereunder, it is no defense to an action for the price that the promise to pay therefor was in parol. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 226(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(C) Bona Fide Purchasers 400k225 Notice 400k226 In  General 400k226(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A subsequent purchaser of land is not protected from a prior equity for want of notice when only a part of the purchase price is paid. Bills and Notes 56 k 1 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(A) Form and Contents of Bills of Exchange, Drafts, Checks, and Orders 56k1 k. Nature and Essentials in General. Most Cited  Cases An order is regarded as a bill of exchange. Bills and Notes 56 k 26 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(A) Form and Contents of Bills of Exchange, Drafts, Checks, and Orders 56k24 Refusal of Drawee to Accept or  Pay 56k26 k. Liability of Drawer. Most Cited  Cases An order is regarded as a bill of exchange and the drawer is liable only on due diligence of the holder. Equity 150 k 66 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(C) Principles and Maxims of Equity 150k66 k. He Who Seeks Equity Must Do Equity. Most Cited  Cases He who seeks equity must do equity. BIBB and CRITTENDEN for Hunter; SHARP and DENNY for Breckinridge & als. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Hunter sold to Breckinridge, Miller and Cochran, for the price of six thousand dollars, two thousand dollars whereof was paid in hand, and the balance to be afterwards paid, a lot of ground in the vicinity of Louisville, and executed to them a deed of conveyance. A suit in chancery, in favor of a person holding a prior equity, against persons holding the legal title To obtain a surrender of the conveyance so made, the heirs of William F. Simrall exhibited their bill in equity against Hunter, Breckinridge, Miller and Cochran, charging that their ancestor in his lifetime, purchased the lot of ground from Hunter, and paid him the purchase money; and that Hunter at the same time signed and acknowledged a deed of conveyance to their ancestor for the lot, and promised to carry the deed, so acknowledged, to the office of the clerk of the county court of Jefferson, to be recorded; but that instead of doing so, the said Hunter kept the deed in his possession until after the death of their ancestor, and then destroyed the same by burning it; and that he, the said Hunter, thereafter, sold the lot to Breckinridge, Miller and Cochran, who, at the time of their purchase, knew that Hunter had previously sold the same to their ancestor, Simrall. *2 The evidence adjudged sufficient to establish the equity, the subsequent sale cancelled, and the purchaser relieved on a cross bill. A subsequent purchaser is not protected from the prior equity, for want of notice, where only a part of the purchase money is paid. Hunter acknowledges that he contracted for the sale of the lot to the deceased, Simrall; but alleges the contract was by parol, and that the purchase money has never been paid by Simrall or any other person for him. He denies that any deed or other writing was ever executed by him for the lot to Simrall, though he admits that under an impression that a deed had been made by him, he has stated to others he had done so. But he states that he has since discovered the deed which he had supposed was executed by him, was in fact executed by his wife only, and attempts to account for the deed having been executed by her before it was acknowledged by him. He admits the sale to Breckinridge, Miller and Cochran, pleads and relies upon the statute against frauds and perjuries, and insists that no relief ought to be afforded to the heirs of Simrall in a court of equity. A parol contract for the sale of land, perfected by the execution of a deed, is not within the statute against frauds. A complainant seeking the aid of a court of equity, must do equity, and the first purchaser required to pay the balance of the purchase money due by him. Breckinridge, Miller and Cochran acknowledge the purchase of the lot by them at the price of six thousand dollars, two thousand dollars of which they allege to have been paid; but in their first answer they deny having had notice of the complainant's claim, though in a subsequent answer, which they make a cross bill against Hunter, they admit notice, &c. The court below decreed the title to be conveyed to the heirs of Simrall against a named day, provided they should pay to Hunter, with interest, two hundred and sixty-five dollars and sixty-nine cents, being the balance of the consideration agreed to be paid by their ancestor for the lot, after deducting an order drawn by him in favor of Hunter on J. and S. Vance, for two hundred dollars; and upon the failure of the heirs to pay the amount, it was decreed that so much of the lot as might be necessary for that purpose, should be sold to raise the amount, and a commissioner was accordingly appointed by the court to carry into effect the decree. The decree, moreover, reserved the right of Hunter to assert any claim which he might have at law, to recover the balance which he alleges is unpaid on the order which was drawn in his favor by Simrall upon the Vances. An order is in substance a bill of exchange, and the drawer is only liable upon the exercise of due and proper diligence by the holder. The court also decreed a cancelment of the contract between Hunter and Breckinridge, Miller and Cochran; and upon the answer of Breckinridge, &c. which was made a cross bill, the court decreed Hunter should pay with interest two thousand dollars, the amount received by him under that contract. *3 If the court was correct in supposing that the heirs of Simrall shewed sufficient equity as against Hunter, it was unquestionably correct to relieve them against the sale and conveyance, which was made by Hunter to Breckinridge, &c. The evidence in the cause may not be sufficient to prove notice in fact of the claim of the heirs of Simrall to Breckinridge, &c. before they made the contract with Hunter; but in their last answer they admit notice, and even if they had not done so, the circumstance of but two thousand dollars out of six thousand which was to have been given for the land, having been in fact paid, would prevent Breckinridge, &c. from protecting themselves against the equity of the heirs under their purchase from Hunter. And after relieving the heirs against the purchase of Breckinridge, &c. it was indubitably proper to make a decree in their favor, upon their cross bill against Hunter. As the last answer which was filed by them, contains admissions not to be found in their previous answer, and as the filing of it was opposed by Hunter, it is not so clear that Breckinridge, &c. could have been relieved upon their cross bill, if the right of the heirs of Simrall to overreach their purchase from Hunter, had rested exclusively upon the admissions contained in their last answer. But we have seen that without the aid of that answer, the heirs of Simrall would have been entitled to relief against Breckinridge, &c. and of course Breckinridge, &c. ought to be compensated for the money advanced by them to Hunter, by Hunter's repaying a sum equal to that which he received, with interest. And with respect to the equity asserted by the heirs of Simrall under the contract made by their ancestor, we are inclined to think it is sufficiently established. If, as is alleged by Hunter in his answer, that contract had never been reduced to writing, the statute of frauds and perjuries, upon which he relies, would no doubt have precluded the court from extending relief to the heirs; but from the proof in the cause, we are constrained to decide that Hunter did in fact, in pursuance of a verbal contract, execute and deliver to the ancestor of the heirs a written deed of conveyance for the land. The evidence is clear and positive, that on divers occasions and to divers persons, Hunter not only acknowledged that he had acknowledged a deed to Simrall for the land, but that shortly before the commencement of this suit, he stated, that upon searching his papers, he had found the deed so by him executed, and that he had burnt it. In his answer, it is true, Hunter admits that he had labored under the impression that he had executed a deed, but that he has since discovered, that the deed which was intended to be signed by him, was in fact signed by his wife only, and exhibits that deed with his answer. But it does not follow from that deed, that no other deed was ever executed by Hunter. He may nevertheless have executed another; and after his repeated statements, that he had burnt the deed which he had executed, we are bound to decide that another was executed by him. *4 If, therefore, the contract of sale made by Hunter to Simrall, was perfected by the execution of a deed by Hunter, the statute of frauds and perjuries has no application to the case; for the application of the heirs of Simrall to a court of equity, is not to enforce the specific execution of a verbal contract for the sale of land, but to obtain a conveyance for land, to which a conveyance had been made to their ancestor, and which conveyance, by the fraudulent act of Hunter, had been destroyed. With respect to the balance of the decree, no error is perceived. The amount which the heirs were decreed to pay, is as much as from the weight of evidence appears to have remained unpaid of the purchase money, after deducting the order which was given by Simrall to Hunter on the Vances. It might have been proper to have decreed the amount of that order to be paid by the heirs, if their liability had been sufficiently established by the evidence. For, as complainants seeking the aid of a court of equity, they ought to be compelled to do equity, and that can be done only by requiring them to pay whatever part of the purchase money was unpaid by their ancestor, and for which he was liable at the time of his death. But we have been unable to discover the evidence from which the liability of the ancestor or his heirs to pay the order on the Vances, can be maintained. The order is contained in the record, and is in substance nothing more or less than a bill of exchange. It was, therefore, alone upon the exercise of due and proper diligence by Hunter to obtain the amount from the Vances, that he could have any claim upon the ancestor of the heirs as drawer, and there is no evidence taken in the cause, conducing to shew that such diligence was used by Hunter. Under such a state of case, therefore, Hunter surely has no just cause to complain of the decree refusing to compel the complainants to pay any part of the order, but leaving him to assert that claim in an action at law. The decree must be affirmed with costs and damages upon the amount decreed in the court below in favor of Breckinridge, &c. Ky.App. 1824. Hunter v. Simrall 5 Litt. 62, 15 Ky. 62, 1824 WL 1376 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
