(Cite as: 3 Bibb 326,  6 Ky. 326 (Ky.),  1814 WL 777 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Allen, etc. v. Robinson. May 19, 1814. West Headnotes Taxation 371 k 2914 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(L) Sale of Land for Nonpayment of Tax 371k2911 List of Lands Delinquent 371k2914 k. Making and Requisites. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 371k627) A tract of land was entered by a nonresident with the auditor for taxation as a tract of 2,200 acres. The auditor sent to the register a book containing a list of lands of nonresidents on which the taxes were unpaid, in which he inserted a tract of 2,176 acres, which was intended to mean the said tract of 2,200 acres, but through some mistake the true quantity was erroneous.  Held, on its appearing that neither the nonresident nor any other person of his name had any land listed except that tract, that the variance was immaterial and did not affect the sale. Taxation 371 k 3134 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(N) Tax Titles 371III(N)2 Tax Deeds 371k3133 Effect as to  Title 371k3134 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 371k789(1)) A deed, made by the register, of lands sold for taxes, is prima facie evidence that the requirements of law governing such sale have been fulfilled. Ejectment 142 k 90(2) 142 Ejectment 142III Pleading and Evidence 142k87 Admissibility of Evidence 142k90 Title and Right to Possession 142k90(2) k. Grant, Conveyance, or Deed. Most Cited  Cases Where the defendant in ejectment claims under a deed from the register of the land office, evidence is admissible to show that the requisitions of the law have not been complied with, and that the deed is consequently invalid. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS was an ejectment brought by the defendant in error against the plaintiffs to recover the possession of a tract of land patented in the name of Robinson, the lessor of the defendant. The plaintiffs claim the land under a sale and conveyance made by the register of the land office, for the non-payment of the tax for the year 1800. It was shown in evidence that the patent issued to Robinson for 2200 acres, and that it was entered for taxation in the book of the auditor of public accounts for the year 1800, as a tract of 2200 acres, the tax on which was $4 40 cents; and that the taxes in the year 1801 were due and unpaid, and that the auditor, according to the custom of the office, intended to be in pursuance of law, sent to the register a book containing a list of lands of non-residents on which the taxes were unpaid, with the amount of taxes, etc.; that in that book was inserted a tract of 2176 acres, taxes due thereon for the year 1800, $4 35, which was intended to mean the said tract of 2200 acres, but by some casualty the true quantity was mistaken; and that it was exposed to sale as a tract of 2176 acres, and 2100 acres thereof sold for the taxes thereon due and unpaid for the year 1800, amounting to $4 35, for which the register first made his certificate and then his deed, which is recorded, etc. It was also shown in evidence that said Robinson held no other tract of land in Kentucky, and that neither he nor any person of the same name had any lands listed with the auditor for taxation, save the tract aforesaid. A tract of 2200 acres of land entered (by a non-resident) with the auditor for taxation and transmitted to the register as a tract of 2176 acres and sold, upon proof that the non-resident nor any other person of his name had any land listed save said tract, the variance held immaterial and considered as the same tract. The sale and deed of the register, when legally made, passes to the purchaser the legal title. His deed should be taken as prima facie evidence that the requisitions of the law had been fulfilled, but proof that the law had not been regularly pursued in making the sale, is admissible in the trial of an ejectment. The statute intends that there should be three months between the first publication and the day of sale, and the public printer is a competent witness to prove that such publication was not made. On the motion of the plaintiff in ejectment the Court below instructed the jury that the variance between the quantity entered with the auditor for taxation and that contained in the list sent out by him to the register, was such that Robinson was not in law divested of the title which he had held to the land. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the Court, and the whole evidence, including the patent to Robinson and the certificate of sale and deed of the register, etc., made part of the record. A judgment was obtained in favor of the plaintiff in ejectment. The first question presented for the decision of this Court, is as to the correctness of the instructions given by the Court below. From any view we have been enabled to take of this case, we cannot accord in opinion with the instructions given by that Court. It is clear that the evidence produced on the trial in the Court below, not only conduced to the proof, but afforded clear and irrefragable proof that the tract transmitted by the auditor to the register (though by some casualty there exists a mistake in the quantity) is the same patented to Robinson and entered for taxation. But if the evidence only conduced in the slightest degree to the proof of such a fact, the Court should in deciding on the motion, and we must in reviewing that decision consider the fact as incontrovertibly established: for as the jurors are the proper and constitutional judges of the fact, the instructions of the Court should have been given on the supposition of the existence of all those facts which the evidence in anywise tended to prove. *2 Considering, then, the tract transmitted by the auditor to the register the same that was entered for taxation, it is evident the variance in the quantity cannot have the effect supposed by the Court below: for the law regulating the conduct of the auditor, does not require any particular description to be observed, and every purpose of justice is abundantly answered by a description which clearly shows the tract intended. The instruction given by the Court is therefore erroneous, and the judgment for that cause must be reversed. But as a new trial must be awarded, it becomes necessary to consider whether or not that Court decided correctly in rejecting the evidence of William Hunter, which was offered by the plaintiff in that Court. The sale and conveyance of the register, when legally made, passes to the purchaser the legal title; and in a contest involving the validity of such a sale, the register's deed (as he is an officer of the government presumed by law to do his duty) should be taken as prima facie evidence of the requisitions of the law having been fulfilled. But as the register derives his authority to sell lands for the non-payment of taxes from the law, to make his deed effectual to pass the title, that authority must be strictly pursued; and although the deed will prima facie prove the correct exercise of the authority, it may be repelled by proof that the law was not regularly pursued in making the sale. This is not like the case of a sale and conveyance made by a sheriff under a fieri facias, where it has been held that though the sheriff may not have complied with the requisitions of the law in advertising the time of sale, his deed passes the title to the purchaser. In that case the fieri facias is the authority of the sheriff, and if it be pursued the title vests in his alienee; but if in that case the authority is not pursued, the title will not pass. As if, under an elegit, the sheriff, instead of delivering the possession, should sell and convey, his conveyance would not pass the title from the defendant in the execution; because in such a case the execution gives no authority to sell: so in the present case, as the authority of the register is created by the law, the law must be pursued to pass the title. And in a contest involving such a title, proof of a failure to comply with the law in making the sale, forms an available defense--See  4 Cranch, 403. This defense, strictly speaking, we apprehend is of a legal, and not an equitable nature: for as the law forms the authority to sell, it must be matter of law whether that authority has or has not been regularly pursued. As, therefore, the plaintiff in the Court below could avoid the effect of the register's deed by proof of the sale having been illegally made, it results the evidence offered by him in that Court, but which was rejected, if it tended to prove such irregularity, should have been admitted. That the evidence tended to such proof we think evident. The law requires the register should advertise the time and place of sale for three months, twice in each month successively, in the gazette of the public printer. The obvious meaning of this provision of the law requires the time and place of sale should be advertised at least three months before the time of sale: for it is clear the time of sale cannot be advertised for three months unless there should be at least that time between the first publication and the day of sale. The evidence which was rejected should therefore have been received, as it tended to prove the register did not advertise the time of sale for three months as the law requires. *3 The judgment of the Court below must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to that Court for a new trial to be had consistent with the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Allen v. Robinson 3 Bibb 326, 6 Ky. 326, 1814 WL 777 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
