(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 401,  8 Ky. 401 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1436 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. George Johnston v. Lewis' Administrators. Dec. 2, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE GREENUP CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 427(3) 56 Bills and Notes 56X Payment and Discharge 56k427 Persons to Whom Payment May Be Made 56k427(3) k. Notice of Transfer. Most Cited  Cases A payment by an obligor to an obligee after notice that the note is in the hands of another, who claims a beneficial interest therein, is in his own wrong. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Logan. This is an appeal from a judgment recovered by the appellees, upon a note assigned to their intestate by James Dozier. An issue having been taken to the appellant's plea, of payment to Dozier before notice of the assignment, a jury was called, and after finding a verdict for the appellees, a motion was made for a new trial, and the only question worthy of any consideration, involves the propriety of the decision of the court, in overruling the motion. The motion was made on the ground of the verdict being against evidence, but as the evidence shews conclusively, that the appellant knew of the note being in the hands of the intestate, Lewis, before he made the payment, and as, from the circumstance of Dozier having before then notified the appellant not to pay the debt to Lewis, he must have also known that Lewis claimed the beneficial interest as well as the possession of the note, the jury were clearly justified in finding for the appellees. A payment by an obligor to an obligee after notice that the note is in the hands of another who claims a beneficial interest therein, is in his own wrong. The motion of the appellant for a new trial was, consequently, properly overruled, and judgment correctly entered against him upon the verdict. The judgment must be affirmed with cost and damages. Ky.App. 1818. Johnston v. Lewis' Adm'rs 1 A.K.Marsh. 401, 8 Ky. 401, 1818 WL 1436 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
