(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 335,  8 Ky. 335 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1392 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Joseph Sprigg v. Abr'm Jarret et al. Oct. 14, 1818. *1 ??N A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 45 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(A) Discovery in General 307Ak44 Failure to Disclose;   Sanctions 307Ak45 k. Facts taken as established or denial  precluded; preclusion of evidence or witness. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 127k25  Discovery) In a bill for discovering facts within the party's own knowledge, and to which he is bound to respond, if the defendant fails to answer, they are properly taken as confessed without proof. ??UDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE JUDGMENT OF THE COURT: Ejectments having been brought, by the appellant, ??gainst the appellees, to obtain from them the possession of ??tract of land upon which they reside, they exhibited their ??ill against him, alleging, that they are informed and be?? eve, that he, before the commencement of the ejectments, ??ad conveyed the land to others, and called upon him to ??nswer, whether or not he had made such a conveyance; ??nd after the appellant's demurrer to the appellees' right to the discovery was overruled, and the bill taken for confessed, the court below, upon the trial of the ejectments, instructed the jury that the bill being taken for confessed, was legal and conclusive evidence of the title having been conveyed from the appellant. Whether, therefore, the court decided correctly in giving the instructions, is the only question presented for decision, in the determination of the present contest? We have no doubt, that the discovery sought is of that character which properly authorized the appellees to apply to a court of chancery; and that after the demurrer to their bill was overruled, and the appellant failed to answer, it was proper to pronounce a decree, taking the allegations of the bill for confessed. In a bill for discovering facts within the party's own knowledge, and to which he is bound to respond, if the defendant fails to answer, they are properly taken as confessed without proof. And, admitting the bill to be true, there is no doubt but the instructions of the court were correctly given; for although, as was held in the case of  Longes and Kennedy, 2 Bibb, 608, it would be irregular to assume the existence of a fact upon the bare allegation of a complainant's information and relief; yet when in connection with such a charge, the complainant moreover calls upon the defendant, by express interrogation, (as was done in the case now before us,) to answer whether or not the facts of which he had been informed, and believed, were true, the failure to answer must be considered as an implied admission of the facts, to which if the defendant had answered, he would have been bound to respond. Judgment must be affirmed with cost. Talbot, for plaintiff; Hardin, for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1818. Sprigg v. Jarret 1 A.K.Marsh. 335, 8 Ky. 335, 1818 WL 1392 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
