(Cite as: 4 Bibb 278,  7 Ky. 278 (Ky.),  1815 WL 775 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Barger v. Cashman. Dec. 7, 1815. *1 An action on covenant by an apprentice, breach that the defendant did not use during the term of apprenticeship, his utmost endeavors to instruct the apprentice in the house-joining and cabinet making, the defendant ought to be permitted to give evidence in mitigation of damages, that the apprentice after his term of service could do and had done good house-joiner's work. The omission of the defendant to tender a bill of exceptions during the trial does not preclude him from availing himself of the error on motion for a new trial. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 248 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(C) Exceptions 30k248 k. Necessity in General. Most Cited  Cases New Trial 275 k 26 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(A) Errors and Irregularities in General 275k26 k. Necessity of Objection. Most Cited  Cases The omission of defendant to tender a bill of exceptions during the trial does not preclude him from availing himself of the error on a motion for a new trial. New Trial 275 k 26 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(A) Errors and Irregularities in General 275k26 k. Necessity of Objection. Most Cited  Cases In covenant by an apprentice against his master for failure to teach him his trade, where evidence offered in mitigation of damages was erroneously excluded, defendant may avail himself of the error on a motion for new trial, although he failed to tender a bill of exceptions during the trial. Labor and Employment 231H k 925 231H Labor and Employment 231HX Apprentices 231Hk925 k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 255k9.1  Master and Servant, 32k19  Apprentices) In covenant by an apprentice against his master for failure to use, during the term of apprenticeship, his utmost endeavors to instruct the apprentice in the trade of housejoining, it may be shown in mitigation of damages that the apprentice, after his term of service, could do, and had done, good housejoiner's work. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. CASHMAN, by the assent of his father, put himself apprentice to Barger for the term of three years; and in consideration of certain covenants entered into on his part, Barger covenanted to use his utmost endeavors during said term to instruct him in the art, trade, and mystery of house-joining and cabinet making, and to give him during the term four months' schooling. The term having elapsed, Cashman brought this suit on the covenant, and after setting forth in his declaration the covenant aforesaid, alleged for breach the failure of Barger to use during the term of apprenticeship his utmost endeavors to instruct Cashman in the art, trade, and mystery of house-joining and cabinet making, and also his failure to give the four months' schooling, according to the tenor and effect of the covenant. Barger pleaded covenants performed, and issue having been joined to the country a verdict was found for Cashman; and though a new trial was asked for by Barger, judgment was entered according to the verdict of the jury. From this judgment Barger has brought the case before this Court by appeal. *2 The only question we shall consider in determining this cause grows out of the refusal of the Court to grant a new trial. One of the grounds upon which it was asked was because the Court on the trial had refused to permit Barger to give evidence that Cashman, after his term of apprenticeship had terminated, could do, and had done good house-joiner's work. Were this evidence admissible, its rejection by the Court most certainly formed a good cause for a new trial: for as in that event Barger by the act of the Court may have sustained an injury, natural justice as well as the settled rules of practice unite in requiring a further trial. The failure of Barger to tender a bill of exceptions during the trial to the decision of the Court in refusing the evidence, cannot, as was contended in argument, prevent him from availing himself of the error of the Court in an application for a new trial. When the evidence was rejected, according to strict practice, exceptions should have been tendered during the progress of the trial; but as that was not done, though the failure might have afforded a sufficient apology for the refusal of the Court to sign exceptions to that point, if thereafter tendered, it cannot legalize the decision of the Court or affect its operation as a substantive cause for a new trial. That the evidence should have been admitted, we have no doubt. Although it might not have proven conclusively a performance of the covenants, it certainly afforded very persuasive evidence in mitigation of damages: for notwithstanding Barger may have failed to fulfill his covenants in every respect, the damages which ought to be recovered should in some measure correspond with the injury sustained. The evidence, therefore, which was rejected by the Court, whilst it might not have fully proven the issue on the part of Barger, it certainly conduced in a certain degree to prove the exercise of his endeavors to instruct Cashman, and tended to evince such a degree of knowledge on the part of Cashman in the trade to which he became an apprentice, as should at least extenuate the damages, and as such ought to have went to the jury. The judgment must be reversed, the cause remanded to the Court below and a new trial there had according to the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Barger v. Cashman 4 Bibb 278, 7 Ky. 278, 1815 WL 775 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
