(Cite as: 3 Bibb 409,  6 Ky. 409 (Ky.),  1814 WL 805 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Devour v. Johnson. May 24, 1814. West Headnotes Partition 288 k 95 288 Partition 288II Actions for Partition 288II(B) Proceedings and Relief 288k95 k. Final Judgment or Decree for Actual Partition,  and Enforcement Thereof. Most Cited Cases Where a decree in partition provides that, if either of the parties is legally evicted from any part of his land, the other shall reconvey a proportionate quantity, and one of the parties is so evicted, the proper way of enforcing the liability of the other party is by bill in equity based on the partition decree. Partition 288 k 95 288 Partition 288II Actions for Partition 288II(B) Proceedings and Relief 288k95 k. Final Judgment or Decree for Actual Partition,  and Enforcement Thereof. Most Cited Cases A., holding an interest with B. in land, brought a suit for division. Partition was decreed, with a proviso that, if either party should be legally evicted by any other title from any part of the land, the other should reconvey a proportionate quantity.  A suit was afterwards brought against B. by C., and submitted to arbitration, and an award made for B. to convey part of the land held by him.  B. then brought a bill, founded on the former decree of partition.  Held, that the award was competent evidence of the eviction, but that the fact that it was by superior title must be proved by other evidence. Partition 288 k 95 288 Partition 288II Actions for Partition 288II(B) Proceedings and Relief 288k95 k. Final Judgment or Decree for Actual Partition,  and Enforcement Thereof. Most Cited Cases There is nothing improper in providing in a partition decree that, if either of the parties is legally evicted from any part of his land, the other shall reconvey a proportionate quantity. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 DEVOUR holding an interest with Johnson, etc. in a pre-emption of Elijah M'Clain, brought suit in chancery against them for a division. On a final hearing of that suit, partition was decreed; but it was in that decree provided that should either party be thereafter legally evicted by any other title, from any part of the land, the other should reconvey a proportionable quantity. Upon a bill for a partition of lands, it is not improper that the decree should express that if the one or the other party should lose any part of the land allotted to him in the partition, by an adverse claim, that then the other party should reconvey a proportional quantity, so as to render the partition equal. Such a decree is the foundation of an original bill for repartition, if one is evicted of part of his allotment. If the one party is sued and submits the cause to reference, the award and decree of the Court thereon, is evidence only of the fact of eviction, but not that it was by superior title. But the person evicted must show that it was by a superior title. Entry "on the north side of the north fork of Elkhorn, adjoining the lands of William Russell and Vaughn;" the surveys of Russell and of Vaughn being notorious at the nearest station, are good locative descriptions. These surveys being adjoining the one to the other, the appendant entry is to be surveyed by beginning at the point where R and V join, thence equal distances along each survey to form the base of a square area, thence at right angles for quantity. After this, suit was brought against Johnson, upon a settlement and pre-emption of John Ellis, to recover the land allotted to Johnson. By consent of the parties to that suit, it was submitted to the arbitrament of William Steele and Thomas Jones, who awarded Johnson to convey part of the land held by him under M'Clain's pre-emption, and that award was made the judgment of the Court. Johnson then brought his bill in chancery, founded on the former decree of partition, against Devour, for the conveyance of a rateable proportion of the quantity lost. Devour by his answer to this bill denies he was a party to the arbitration, and contends he is not bound by the decision therein. The Court below on a hearing decreed Devour to convey, etc.; from which decree this writ or error is prosecuted. That Johnson's remedy is properly by an original bill, founded on the former decree, we have no doubt. That decree was final between the parties, and as fully complied with by them as the nature of the decree under the then existing state of facts required; subject, however, to a further liability in the event of an eviction by either party from any part of the land. And upon the happening of such an event, a new ground of equity arises, dependent it is true upon the former decree, but growing out of extraneous and subsequent facts, and forming peculiarly the subject of an original suit. Nor is the provision in that decree making one of the party thereto liable, on the other being evicted from any part of the land, as was contented in argument, repugnant to the principles of law and equity: for as the parties before the making of that decree had a right to equal interests in the land, it was proper so to mould the decree as would tend to preserve and secure that equality. *2 As Johnson has therefore pursued the proper remedy, it becomes necessary we should inquire whether he has shown himself entitled to the relief granted by the Court below? To establish this right to relief, two things are necessary to be proven--1, an eviction; and 2d, that the eviction was had under a superior adverse claim. As to the first, it is clear from the repeatedFN(a) decisions of this Court, a judgment against Johnson, though Devour might not have been a party thereto, would be evidence of an eviction; and we apprehend, according to the same principle, the decision of the arbitrators, made the judgment of the Court, should have the same effect. But as Devour was neither party nor privy to that decision, it is clear it is inadmissible to prove the eviction was had under a superior adverse claim. If, however, that fact is proven by other evidence in this cause, Johnson is still entitled to relief. FN(a). Booker v. Bell, ante, 175; Prewitt v. Kenton 282;  Lewis v. Knox, 2 Bibb 454. The inquiry therefore arises, whether the evidence proves an eviction under such a claim? Thus we are led to examine the validity of the settlement entry of John Ellis, and the pre-emption entry of Thomas Turner and William Denham, under which the eviction seems to have been had. These entries are as follows, viz: "17th January 1780--John Ellis enters 400 acres by certificate, etc. lying on the north side of the north fork of Elkhorn, adjoining the lands of William Russell and Vaughn." "27th April 1780--Thomas Turner and William Denham, assignees of John Ellis, enter 1000 acres upon a pre-emption warrant, and adjoining Ellis' settlement on the east side, waters of Elkhorn." Both Russell and Vaughn, at the date of these entries, had on the north fork of Elkhorn and in the vicinity of Bryant's Station, a military survey. These surveys were made to adjoin the whole length of their north and south line, and as the creek passes through both in a northwestwardly direction, they present but one side on the north side of the creek. These surveys are proven to have been generally known at the date of Ellis' settlement entry, by the people of Bryant's Station; and as that station was at that time the nearest settlement to these surveys (that of Vaughn not being more than about five or six hundred poles therefrom) it is clear a subsequent locator, by the exercise of reasonable diligence might have ascertained with certainty the land intended to be located. If then the notoriety of these surveys is sufficiently established, there can be no doubt but that Ellis' settlement entry should be surveyed as directed by the arbitrators, making the adjoining corners of Russell and Vaughn's surveys on the north side of Elkhorn creek the center of his base, extending equal distances with both surveys and off at right angles therefrom for quantity. As, therefore, the entry of Ellis is valid, it evidently results that of Turner and Denham, which depends thereon, must likewise be supported. And as it calls to adjoin Ellis on the east side, it is clear all the land awarded by the arbitrators in favor of that entry will be included by a survey when correctly made. *3 We deem it unnecessary to inquire into the vilidity of the entry under which Johnson held the land: for as those of Ellis, and Turner and Denham are of elder date, and their validity has been maintained, their superiority necessarily results. The eviction of Johnson is then shown to have been under an adverse superior claim, and consequently the Court below decided correctly in granting him relief.--Decree affirmed. Ky.App. 1814. Devour v. Johnson 3 Bibb 409, 6 Ky. 409, 1814 WL 805 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
