(Cite as: 3 Bibb 456,  6 Ky. 456 (Ky.),  1814 WL 825 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Tanner and wife v. Davidson and wife, etc. Oct. 15, 1814. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 301 162 Executors and Administrators 162VII Distribution of Estate 162k301 k. Advances by Executor or Administrator. Most Cited Cases The interest on a distributee's share of her father's estate was allowed to an administratrix for support of said distributee during infancy. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS is an appeal from the decree of the Court below dismissing the appellant's bill. The suit was brought in that Court by Tanner and wife to recover the distributable share of Mrs. Tanner (the only child of N. Halloway deceased) to her father's estate, and a tract of land to which they allege the appellees have improperly obtained title. A bill in equity lies to recover of the executor or administrator the distributive share of the estate of the decedent. The executrix will not be permitted to charge for raising and maintaining an infant distributee, more than the interest upon the distributive share, but not to reduce the principal--Acc. Hennings v. Conner, 2 vol. 190. The bill alleges Mrs. Davidson, before her intermarriage with Davidson, administered on the estate of N. Halloway, deceased, and together with the appellee John Hunter, executed bond for the faithful discharge of her duty as administratrix; and that owing to the destruction of the office by fire, the bond cannot be procured; and prays a decree for an adjustment of the accounts of the administratrix, etc. On a hearing in the Court below, the appellant's bill was dismissed. So much of the bill as sought relief for the tract of land, the appellant's having abandoned, need not be investigated in the consideration of this cause. The only points, therefore, involved in the determination of this appeal, grow out of the adjustment of the accounts of the administratrix. It not being controverted, but unquestionably established, that Mrs. Tanner is the only child of N. Halloway, deceased, it necessarily follows she is entitled to all the estate of her deceased father, after the payment of all just debts and expenses, with a deduction of one third to Mrs. Davidson, her mother. And it is moreover manifest that after making all such deductions and allowing the appellees credit for all just claims, there remains a balance due the appellants. For the amount of that balance therefore, the appellants should have had a decree against Mrs. Davidson, the administratrix, and her husband. But in ascertaining the amount to which the appellants have a right, it will be necessary to observe that though there exists some ambiguity in the evidence as to the amount of the estate which came to the hands of the administratrix, we are inclined to the opinion, from the evidence of Philip Williams and Jacob Hunter, who seem to have a more correct knowledge of the estate than any other witness, that it amounted at least to three hundred dollars. It is true there is included in that amount the value of a horse which some of the witnesses speak of having been proven away from the administratrix some considerable time after the decease of N. Halloway; but owing to the uncertainty in the evidence in relation to the fact, we are unable to perceive on what account the horse was proven away, whether under a contract made with the administratrix or her intestate; and consequently we cannot say the value of that horse should be deducted from the amount of the estate in this contest. *2 The charge made against the appellants for the raising and maintainance of Mrs. Tanner, should not be received to extinguish any part of the principal amount due; but under the circumstances of this case we are of opinion the maintainance should prevent the accumulation of interest. The appellees should have a credit for the amount of all advances made Mrs. Tanner by the appellee Davidson, when she left him: for although the evidence is not very explicit in relation to that subject, yet we think the most reasonable and fair conclusion deducible from all the evidence, is, that those advances were made by Davidson, and received by Mrs. Tanner in part of the amount due her from the estate of her deceased father. Upon the whole, we are of opinion the decree of the Court below must be reversed, the cause remanded and a decree pronounced in favor of the appellants against Davidson and wife for the amount of the estate, after making such deductions as may be consistent with the principles of this opinion. But we are also of opinion the bill as to Hunter should be dismissed. He appears to have been the security of Mrs. Davidson, and took from her a bond of indemnity. This bond appears to have been since delivered up by Hunter, in consequence of a settlement made between Davidson and Tanner; and though that settlement may not be binding on them, yet as by the act of Tanner, Hunter has been deprived of the benefit of his security against Mrs. Davidson, Tanner should not be decreed any relief against him. The appellants must recover their costs against Davidson and wife, which is decreed accordingly. And it is farther decreed and ordered that the appellants recover of the appellees Davidson and wife their costs in this Court expended. Ky.App. 1814. Tanner v. Davidson 3 Bibb 456, 6 Ky. 456, 1814 WL 825 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
