(Cite as: 4 Bibb 410,  7 Ky. 410 (Ky.),  1816 WL 796 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Murtry v. Henry. Oct. 14, 1816. *1 If the defendant pleads an insufficient plea no irregularity on the trial of the issue on that plea will authorize a reversal at his instance. When a constable justifies by an execution from a justice of the peace, his plea ought to show that the amount of the execution was within the jurisdiction of the justice, and that he levied it before the return day. It is not necessary that the plea should state that the property levied was in the possession of the defendant. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 27 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(A) Errors and Irregularities in General 275k27 k. Harmless Error. Most Cited Cases Where defendant pleads an insufficient plea, no irregularity on the trial of the issue on that plea will authorize a new trial at defendant's instance. Appeal and Error 30 k 1137 30 Appeal and Error 30XVII Determination and Disposition of Cause 30XVII(B) Affirmance 30k1137 k. Defects or Errors on Part of Appellant or Plaintiff  in Error. Most Cited Cases If defendant pleads an insufficient plea, no irregularity on the trial of the issue on that plea will authorize a reversal at his instance. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. To an action of trespass brought by Henry in the Court below against M'Murtry, for taking two negroes from his possession, and which he alleges in his declaration belonged to him, M'Murtry pleaded, that "the plaintiff Henry, his action ought not to have and maintain, because he says the negroes in the declaration mentioned were not the property of the plaintiff, but the property of a certain Josiah Pitts; and that on the ____ day of ____, 1814, sundry executions were issued by a certain John Branham, a justice of the peace for Scott county, in favor of John Jones, and against the estate of the said Josiah Pitts, which executions were put into the hands of him the said M'Murtry as a constable for Scott county, for the purpose of making the money therein mentioned, and that by virtue thereof, he the said M'Murtry took possession of the negroes in the declaration mentioned, and that is the same trespass in the declaration mentioned," etc. To this plea the plaintiff in the Court below, the defendant here, made a general replication; and issue being joined thereto, a verdict and judgment were obtained in favor of Henry: to reverse which, M'Murtry has prosecuted his writ of error with supersedeas. In the progress of the trial in the Court below, various exceptions were taken by M'Murtry to the decisions of that Court; but as they grew out of the trial of the issue joined upon the matter alleged by him in his special plea, it is proper we should examine into the sufficiency of that plea to bar the action: for if it is substantially defective, the issue taken to it is immaterial; and according to the settled adjudications of this Court, no irregularity which may have intervened on the trial of the issue, will authorize a reversal of the judgment at the instance of M'Murtry; and consequently an examination into exceptions taken by him would be altogether nugatory. *2 If the allegations of the plea are sufficient to show the negroes were taken by M'Murtry in strict conformity to a valid writ of fieri facias issuing from a Court of competent jurisdiction against the estate of Pitts, as those negroes are also alleged to be the property of Pitts, and not that of Henry, M'Murtry certainly did right in taking them: for although Henry may have had the possession of the negroes, yet if it be true they were the property of Pitts, as an officer regarding his duty, and acting under a proper authority against the estate of Pitts, M'Murtry was compelled to take them in execution, and as such could not be subjected to the action of Henry. But notwithstanding the negroes are alleged by the plea to belong to Pitts, yet as by admitting the taking from Henry he must be supposed to have had the possession, to justify M'Murtry in violating that possession, it is essential he should have acted legally under competent authority against the estate of Pitts. Whether, therefore, the plea of M'Murtry is good, turns upon the sufficiency of its allegations to show he acted under such an authority. We are of opinion the allegations are insufficient for that purpose: for although it is averred an execution issued from a justice of the peace against the estate of Pitts, it is impossible to know whether it was such an one as the justice was authorized to issue, or that the constable was bound to obey; for as the jurisdiction of justices is limited to a certain amount, beyond that it is plain they cannot issue executions; but if they were, under such an execution an officer could not justify. To make the plea a good bar, therefore, it should by some allegation have shown that the sum for which the execution issued did not exceed the jurisdiction of the justice. But were this objection to the plea removed, still we should be of opinion it is insufficient: for if the execution under which M'Murtry is said to have taken the negroes, was such as the justice might lawfully issue, and in every respect conforms strictly to the requisitions of the law, as in that case it could furnish no authority to the officer to take the property after the return day, in justifying under the execution the plea should in substance have averred the taking before the return day. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. McMurtry v. Henry 4 Bibb 410, 7 Ky. 410, 1816 WL 796 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
