(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 309,  10 Ky. 309 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1072 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Josiah Jackson v. Ambrose Jeffries. Apr. 12, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 518(5) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XII Foreign and Ancillary Administration 162k518 Ancillary Appointment 162k518(5) k. Operation and Effect. Most Cited  Cases Where a will was made and recorded in Virginia, directing the executors to sell lands in this state, but never recorded here, and the county court in which the lands lay, on the death of the executors, granted letters testamentary with the will annexed, it was held that this irregularity would not avoid the letters, until the order was reversed. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This case was formerly before this court, and the opinion then given, is contained in 1 Marshall, Rep. 88. It appears that in December, 1785, there issued from the commonwealth of Virginia to Duncan Rose, a patent for the land now in contest; that, in January, 1785, Duncan Rose made and published his last will and testament, and, among other things therein mentioned, authorized his executors to sell the land in contest; that said Rose having departed this life, his will was regularly proven and admitted to record in the proper county in Virginia at the December term, 1785, and the executors named in the will, took upon themselves the execution thereof by their executing bond with security as the law required; but the executors never caused the will to be recorded in any county in this country, and having also departed this life, the county court of Shelby, where the land in contest lies, at its December term, 1815, granted administration with the will annexed, to James Bristow, and that Bristow, as administrator, thereafter sold the land to the plaintiff, Jackson, who thereupon brought this ejectment to recover the possession of the land, asserting the better right through the sale and conveyance of Bristow, and under the patent of Rose. When the cause was formerly before this court, it was decided, that the executors named in the will could not, after the separation of this state from Virginia, have executed the will in relation to the land in contest, without first obtaining letters testamentary from the proper court in this country, and as they failed to do so, the county court of Shelby, after their death, possessed the power to grant administration with the will annexed, and that Jackson, under the conveyance of the administrator, acquired title to the land in contest. But after the cause returned to the circuit court, it being perceived that the opinion of this court was predicated on the supposition that the will of Duncan Rose had been admitted to record in the county court of Shelby before administration was granted to Bristow, and discovering that the will, in fact, had not been so admitted to record, and supposing the county court of Shelby possessed no power, until the will was there recorded, to grant administration with the will annexed, instructed the jury, that the grant of administration to Bristow was void. *2 A will made and recorded in Virginia, directing the executors to sell land in Kentucky, but never recorded in Kentucky, yet the county court where the lands lie, on the death of the executors, may grant letters testamentary with the will annexed before recording the will. Such act is certainly an irregular exercise of jurisdiction, but will not avoid the letters until reversed. The correctness of that instruction, is now presented for the consideration and decision of this court. That the county court of Shelby possessed competent jurisdiction, either to grant letters testamentary to the executors named in the will, or upon their death or refusal to act, to grant administration to others with the will annexed, was decided by this court, when this cause was formerly here; and that decision we still think correct. It is true, the decision then made, was hypothecated upon the supposition that the will of Duncan Rose had been admitted to record in the county court of Shelby before administration was granted; whereas it now appears the will was not recorded in that court; but we apprehend, it is not the admission of the will to record, that confers upon the court jurisdiction to grant administration. It would certainly have been more strictly in conformity to the provisions of the act of this country in relation to that subject, for the court not to have granted administration until the copy of Rose's will had been admitted to record; but as Rose never lived in this country, and had no personal property here, the county court of Shelby, where the land in contest lies, under the law conferring upon county courts jurisdiction in testamentary matters, derived competent authority, as well to admit the copy of the will to record, as to grant administration thereon with the will annexed. In granting the administration before the copy was recorded, therefore, the county court can not be said to have exceeded its jurisdiction; at most, it was but an irregular exercise of jurisdiction, and such an irregularity can never render the grant of administration absolutely void. For such an irregularity, the grant of administration may be avoided, but whilst it continues unreversed, it confers on the administrator competent authority to administer the decedent's estate. It results, that the court below erred in its instructions to the jury, and the judgment must, consequently, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin for appellant, Pope for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Jackson v. Jeffries 3 A.K.Marsh. 309, 10 Ky. 309, 1821 WL 1072 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
