(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 258,  19 Ky. 258 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1286 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mayo's Heirs, Triplett &c. v. Chiles. Oct. 3, 1826. *1 Attorney. Lis Pendens. Fraudulent Judgments. Restitution. Equity. Jurisdiction. Former Decision. APPEAL FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 99 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k99 k. Alias and Pluries Writs. Most Cited Cases Where a writ of habere facias has issued, and been returned executed, no other can issue, without a special order of the court. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. To recover the possession of a tract of land, William Chiles brought an action of ejectment in the Montgomery circuit court, against Thomas L. Patterson, &c., and finally recovered judgment for the land. Chiles' ejectment for the land vs. Patterson. Whilst the ejectment brought by Chiles was pending, Patterson, by Triplett his attorney, commenced another action of ejectment, for the same land, against the same persons who were defendants to the action of Chiles. This latter action was brought in the name of the heirs of George Mayo, dec'd., but was commenced by Patterson, and his attorney in their names, without their knowledge or consent, and by the consent of Patterson and other tenants in possession, after they were made defendant, judgment was rendered against them for the land, in favor of the heirs of Mayo. Pending Chiles' action, Patterson, by Triplett his attorney, using the names of lessors without their knowledge, brings an ejectment against himself and the other tenants, and, by consent, recovers. Upon this judgment a writ of habere facias possessionem issued, and in pursuance of an endorsement made thereon, by the attorney, the possession of the land was delivered by the sheriff to Patterson, and a return thereof made by the sheriff upon the writ. This was all done whilst the ejectment, brought by Chiles, was pending in court, and before judgment was recovered by him. Execution, endorsed by Triplett, for possession to be delivered to Patterson and--done accordingly. After Chiles succeeded in obtaining judgment, he caused a writ of habere facias possessionem to issue thereon, and the same was executed by the sheriff delivering him the possession. Patterson subsequently moved the court for restitution of the possession against Chiles. In that motion the preceding facts were proved to the court, and an attempt was made on the part of Patterson to protect himself against the judgment of Chiles and the writ of habere facias possessionem which issued thereon, by drawing to his aid the title of Mayo, and the judgment confessed by him in Mayo's action, and the execution which issued thereon. But the attempt was unavailing, and the motion for restitution overruled. Patterson moves for restitution, but is repelled--see Mayo, &c., vs. Chiles, 1 Littell's R. 237. Some time after this, Chiles was informed that Patterson, together with Triplett and Farrow (both of whom claim an interest in the claim of Mayo), had ordered, or was about to order, another writ of habere facias possessionem to issue upon the judgment rendered in the action of Mayo, for the purpose of dispossessing him of the land, exhibited his bill in chancery, with injunction against the heirs of Mayo, Patterson, Triplett and Farrow, and finally obtained a decree perpetually enjoining them from causing execution to issue upon the judgment rendered in favor of the heirs of Mayo, &c. *2 Chiles' bill to enjoin Triplett, &c., from suing out other writs of possession on their judgment--decreed accordingly. To reverse that decree Mayo, &c., have brought the case before this court. The possession of Chiles most indisputably should not be disturbed through the medium of any writ of possession issuing upon the judgment rendered in the action of ejectment brought in the name of Mayo. Judgment thus obtained by the attorney of the tertenants against themselves, by the unauthorized use of the names of lessors, to defeat the execution of an ejectment then pending against the tenants, is nought, as against the lessors in the other suit, in both law and equity. It became necessary to speak of the effect of that judgment when the case of Patterson, upon his application for restitution against Chiles, was presented before this court for adjudication, and by adverting to the opinion then pronounced, it will be discovered to have been our opinion, that, under the circumstances attending the prosecution of the ejectment in the name of Mayo, neither the judgment therein rendered, nor the writ of possession that issued thereon, formed any legal obstruction to Chiles being put into the possession of the land under his judgment against Patterson, and of the correctness of that opinion we still entertain no doubt. The ejectment, though in the name of Mayo, as it was not brought either by his advisement or consent, but through the unauthorized and officious conduct of Patterson, without affording to Chiles the means of defence, deserves the reprobation and condemnation due to all judgments when obtained by the artifice or fraud of a party, and should not receive countenance either in a court of law or equity. Were it, therefore, necessary for Chiles to have the aid a court of equity to protect him against that judgment, we should have no hesitation in saying that the court below was correct in taking cognizance of the cause, and decreeing a perpetual injunction. In such case, equity would take cognizance to enjoin process on the fraudulent judgment if necessary, but it is not. But it is apparent from the record of this case that, without the aid of a court of equity, Chiles is in no danger of being disturbed in his possession by the judgment, or any process which can issue thereon. The possession has been delivered to him under his judgment, and notwithstanding Patterson then claimed to hold the possession, under the judgment and execution in the name of Mayo, it has already been decided that restitution can not be awarded, and as the writ of possession has once issued upon the judgment in the name of Mayo, and as that writ has been executed and returned to the office from whence it emanated, it is perfectly clear that no subsequent writ can again issue upon the judgment; at least, it can not issue without the special order of the court; and after the decision of this court, in condemnation of the judgment and against the right of Patterson to restitution, such an order should never be awarded. *3 After a habere facias has been returned executed no other can issue without a special order of the court; and here the decision against the motion for restitution is conclusive against such an order ever afterwards being made. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and the bill dismissed with cost. Decree reversed, only because it was unnecessary. Triplett, for plaintiffs; Trimble and Hanson, for defendants. Ky.App. 1826. Mayo's Heirs v. Chiles 3 T.B.Mon. 258, 19 Ky. 258, 1826 WL 1286 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
