(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 391,  8 Ky. 391 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1429 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Amos Kibby v. E. Rucker. Dec. 1, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE GREENUP CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Husband and Wife 205 k 348 205 Husband and Wife 205XI Criminal Conversation 205k348 k. Evidence. Most Cited Cases In an action for criminal conversation with plaintiff's wife, an actual marriage must be proved. Evidence of cohabitation and reputation is not sufficient. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Logan. This is an appeal from a judgment recovered by Rucker in an action brought by him against Kibby for a criminal conversation with his wife. The trial was had upon the general issue, and a verdict having been returned against Kibby he moved the court for a new trial, upon the ground of Rucker having failed to prove a marriage in fact, and upon the ground of the verdict being against evidence; but his motion was overruled, and the only question presented for the determination of this court, involves the propriety of the decision of the court below in refusing to award a new trial? On the trial of the issue joined, before Rucker could be entitled to recover, it unquestionably, according to the settled doctrine of the common law, devolved upon him to prove a marriage in fact, between him and the woman, with whom the criminal conversation is alleged to have taken place. In this Rucker appears, however, from the record, to have totally failed. From the statement of the judge, contained in the bill of exceptions, it is true, the witnesses, whilst giving their evidence, is said to have spoken of the marriage as a matter not contested, and in ordinary cases where the same strictness in relation to the proof of a marriage is not observed, that description of proof might be sufficient; but in a case like the present, where, in contradistinction to evidence of reputation, or the confessions of the persons passing for man and wife, a marriage in fact must be proven, the circumstance of the witnesses having spoken of the marriage as though it were not contested, can not have authorized the verdict. In an action for crim. con. it is indispensable to the plaintiff's recovery that he should prove a marriage in fact, general repute of such marriage is not sufficient--Vide Peake's evidence, pa. 330. And if the evidence were insufficient, surely the failure of the parties, as the judge states them to have done, to examine those witnesses as to the actual marriage, when by the issue such a marriage should have been proven, can not have dispensed with the necessity of such evidence. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Hughes, for plaintiff in error. Ky.App. 1818. Kibby v. Rucker 1 A.K.Marsh. 391, 8 Ky. 391, 1818 WL 1429 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
