(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 58,  10 Ky. 58 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1156 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Christopher Young v. Abram Murray. Nov. 30, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BUTLER CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 139 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k139 k. Rights of Parties as to Improvements in General. Most Cited Cases The occupying claimant law does not cover cases where the claim is acquired subsequently to the commencement of the suit, or where the occupant fails to identify a previous claim with his possession. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPLNION OF THE COURT: After judgment of eviction was rendered against Young, in an action of ejectment brought by Murray, the former applied for and obtained from the court an order appointing commissioners to assess the value of the inprovements, &c., under the law concerning occupying claimants of land; but the right of Murray to object to the propriety of appointing the commissioners, was expressly refused by the order of the court. The commissioners accordingly went upon the land, assessed the value of the improvements, &c., and, having made their report, the court, on the motion of Murray, quashed the report, and made an order setting aside the one previously made, appointing the commissioners. Young then again applied for the appointment of commissioners; but the court being of opinion that the case was not embraced by the provisions of the occupying claimant law, overruled his motion. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the court and the evidence produced on the motion was spread upon the record. The main and only question presented for the decision of this court involves an enquiry into Young's right to the appointment of commissioners. We think he has shown no right to such an appointment. There is a total lack of evidence conducing to prove that the land for which the judgment of eviction was rendered against Young, was seated by him under a claim either in law or equity, founded upon any public record. The only record evidence of any claim existing at the commencement of the ejectment against Young, consists of the following county court certificate:--"No. 120. Logan county, sct. July county court. 1801--Agreeable to an act of assembly in that case made and provided therein, granted to Christopher Young 200 acres of land, agreeable to the following entry--Christopher Young locates 200 acres of land lying on Green river, beginning at a beech, running with the river and out of quantity." But there is no evidence in the record calculated to prove that Young either seated the land now in contest, under this certificate, or that it is included in the location therein described. Since the commencement of the ejectment, it is true, Young, by causing a survey to be made under an entry made also with the surveyor since the commencement of the ejectment, but which entry purports to have been made on the county court certificate, has identified his possession with a claim of record; but that survey, as it has been made since the commencement of Murray's suit, cannot confer upon Young a right under the occupying claimant law to compensation for improvements; nor can the description contained in that survey conduce to prove that the land contained therein is the same for which the county court certificate was granted. *2 The occupying claimant law does not cover cases where the claim is acquired subsequent to suit brought, or where the occupant fails to identify a previous claim with his possession. It results therefore that Young showed no right to the appointment of commissioners, and that the court consequently decided correctly in setting aside the order first made, in subsequently refusing to appoint commissioners to assess the value of the improvements, &c. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Bibb for appellant, Crittenden for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Young v. Murray 3 A.K.Marsh. 58, 10 Ky. 58, 1820 WL 1156 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
