(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 364,  20 Ky. 364 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1435 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Taylor v. Whiting and Others. Apr. 12, 1827. *1 Pleading. Joint Tenants. Demises. Evidence. Depositions. APPEAL FROM THE SHELBY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 74 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak74 k. Making and requisites of deposition, return  or certificate. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 122k75  Depositions) A justice's certificate of the inability of a witness to attend is not competent to prove the fact to admit a deposition taken de bene esse. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 77 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak76 Admissibility in Evidence 307Ak77 k. Continued existence of grounds for  taking; unavailability of witness. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 122k90  Depositions) The certificate of the justice taking a deposition de bene esse is not sufficient evidence of the inability of the witness to attend. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 81 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak81 k. Defects and objections. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k111(2)  Depositions) Where there is no proof that the adversary had notice of taking a deposition, the fact that a person styled an "agent" asked the witness a question will not dispense with notice, as such person might have acted without authority. Descent and Distribution 124 k 71(4) 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(A) Nature and Establishment of Rights in General 124k71 Establishment and Determination of Heirship or Right  to Share in Distribution 124k71(4) k. Presumptions and burden of proof. Most  Cited Cases To prove that persons are heirs of another, a witness must state the death of the ancestor and relationship of the parties. Ejectment 142 k 82 142 Ejectment 142III Pleading and Evidence 142k80 Issues, Proof, and Variance 142k82 k. Necessity of proof of title pleaded. Most Cited  Cases Where the lessor claims title by descent, the death of the ancestor before the date of the demise must be proved. Joint Tenancy 226 k 12 226 Joint Tenancy 226k11 Rights and Liabilities of Joint Tenants as to Third Persons 226k12 k. In general. Most Cited Cases A demise by joint tenants must be made by all of them. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] Statement. This is an appeal from a judgment rendered against the appellants on a verdict found against them in an action of ejectment. The declaration, as originally drawn, contains one count only, but was afterwards amended by adding another count. The appellants had appeared to the action, and pleaded the general issue before the declaration was amended, and the only notice which appears to have been taken, upon the record, of the amendment, is contained in the following entry, to wit: "On the 23rd of February, 1822, the plaintiffs, by their attorney, filed an amendment to the declaration in the words and figures following." There does not appear to have been any objection made by the appellants, to the amended declaration being filed, nor was there any additional plea filed by them after the declaration was amended, but both parties on the trial, appear to have treated the issue as applicable to both counts of the declaration. *2 Amendment of the declaration by adding a new count. In reviewing the judgment of the court below, therefore, we shall consider the issue as it was treated by the parties in that court. The plea though filed before the declaration was amended, would, if afterwards filed, have put in issue the matter contained in the amendment, as well as that contained in the original declaration, and whatever indulgence should have been allowed to the appellants, if, after the declaration was amended, they had desired again to plead, there is certainly no propriety in this court excluding from its consideration any matter which would have been involved in the issue, if the plea had been filed after the declaration was, in fact, amended. When an additional count is added after plea pleaded, and the trial is had as if the plea had been afterwards, it shall be so considered, and is well. Understanding the issue to apply to both counts of the declaration, therefore, we shall proceed to enquire whether or not, the court below erred in refusing to grant a new trial on the application of the appellants. And here it should be premised that the first count of the declaration contains a joint demise, alleged to have been made on the first day of December, 1820, by Robert Whiting, Thomas Preble, Edward Preble, Ebenezer Preble and George Baggote, and his wife, Fanny. To have authorized the finding of the jury upon this count, it need scarcely to be remarked, that evidence should not only have been produced, going to prove a joint title in the lessors mentioned in the demise, but that title should, moreover, have been proved to have been in those lessors at the date of the demise. Unless, at the date of the demise, the lessors had title, they were incapable of making the lease laid in the declaration; and unless they are all proved then to have had title, the jury should not have found a verdict against the appellants. Joint demise can be made only by joint tenants, and all, and no more must unite, and the plaintiff's evidence must so prove the title. It is apparent, however, that no sufficient evidence of title, as to part of the lessors, was introduced on the trial. The title claimed to be in the Prebles, was attempted to be derived by descent from their mother, who was proved to be one of the children of Thomas Whiting, deceased. They can not, therefore, have been invested with the title of their mother, if any she had, until her death; and there is no evidence in the cause conducing to prove that she departed this life prior to the date of the demise. Where the lessor claims title by descent, the death of the ancestor befor the date of the demise, must be proved. The finding of the jury upon the first count, was, consequently, against evidence. With respect to the second count, the evidence is still more conclusive against the verdict. That count contains a demise of the same date, by John Lowry Thruston, and the evidence conclusively proves, that, before that day he had conveyed to Thomas Whiting whatever title he had to the land in contest. *3 It follows that the verdict was against evidence, and that the court below, ought upon that ground, to have sustained the motion of the appellants, and granted a new trial. But as the case must be remanded to the court below, it is proper to remark that we are of opinion, that the court erred in not excluding from the jury, the deposition of Elizabeth F. Fountain. That deposition was taken be bene esse, and to have authorized it to be read as evidence proof of her inability to attend the trial, should have been produced. The justice before whom the deposition was taken, it is true, certifies the inability of the witness to attend court, but in certifying that fact, the justice undoubtedly travelled out of the pale of his official duty, and of course, his certificate was incompetent to prove the fact. Justice's certificate of the inability of the witness to attend, is not competent to prove the fact, to admit the deposition taken de bene esse. Besides, the appellants are not shewn to have had notice of the time and place of taking the deposition; and although Hancock Taylor, as agent for William Taylor, one of the appellants, appears to have attended the taking of the deposition, he is not proved to be the agent otherwise than by the fact of his having, as agent, asked the witness a question. But H. Tayor, without the approbation or consent of either of the appellants, may have asked the question, and without further evidence of his authority to act for the appellants, notice to them should have been proved. The justice styling a person plaintiff's agent, who cross examines the witness, does not prove the fact so as to dispense with notice. The other objections taken to the deposition, go not to the regularity of taking it, but to part of the matter sworn to by the witness, and need not be particularly noticed. We would, however, remark, that regularly, for the purpose of proving that one person is the heir of another, the particular facts shewing the relation the one bears to the other, should be stated by the witness, and not in general terms, that such person is heir. Whether heir or not, is a conclusion of law upon the facts and degrees of relationship, and the particular relation should be proved to enable the court to apply the law. To prove that persons are heirs of another, the witness ought to state the death of the ancestor, and relationship of the parties. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, the verdict set aside, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Crittenden, for appellant; Mayes, for appellees. Ky.App. 1827. Taylor v. Whiting 4 T.B.Mon. 364, 20 Ky. 364, 1827 WL 1435 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
