(Cite as: 3 Bibb 81,  6 Ky. 81 (Ky.),  1813 WL 606 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Guthrie and Cox v. Wicklifte. Jun. 1, 1813. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 235 95 Contracts 95II Construction and Operation 95II(F) Compensation 95k235 k. Mode of Making Compensation. Most Cited  Cases A covenant to pay in various articles of produce is not performed by payment all in one article mentioned. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 ON the 22d day of June, 1809, the appellants executed to the appellees the following deed of covenant, to-wit: "We, Adam Guthrie and James Cox. promise and oblige ourselves, our heirs, etc., to pay or cause to be paid unto Martin H. and Nathaniel Wickliffe, their heirs or assigns, the sum of one thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine dollars, forty-seven and a half cents, to be paid in tobacco, whisky, tow linen, pork at 15s. per hundred, lard at 6d. per pound, beeswax at 1s. i 6Id. per pound, butter at 6d. per pound; the article of butter is to be fresh, and put up in good order in small kegs, to contain from twenty-five to thirty pounds each; the lard also in kegs, to contain about ten gallons; hemp at 30s. per hundred, the other articles to be delivered at the current market prices at the time of delivery; and if the parties should not agree upon the prices, a reference is to be made to Messrs. Samuel Smiley, William R. Hynes and Anthony Sanders, or any two of them, who are to determine and say what the prices of those articles shall be. The whole of these articles are to be delivered at the mouth of Brashears' creek, on Salt river, so much at least as will load one fifty foot boat, and no more. The articles of pork, lard, beeswax, linen and butter are to be delivered between the 1st and 10th of January, 1810, and the whole of the other articles to be delivered as above, between the 1st and 10th day of April, then next ensuing, for value received," etc. And having failed to perform the covenants therein contained, the appellees prosecuted an action of covenant in the Nelson Circuit Court thereon against them. The appellants pleaded, "that on the 9th of April, 1810, they had procured and had ready at the mouth of Brashears' creek, about six thousand gallons of good merchantable whisky, to be delivered at that place to the appellees in discharge of the aforesaid covenant, which they aver was sufficient at the current market prices to discharge their obligation and covenant aforsaid; that they continued at the place aforesaid with the whisky aforesaid during all that day, ready and willing to deliver the whisky aforesaid to the appellees in discharge of their covenant; that the appellees failed to attend on that day at that place to agree with the appellants upon the price and value of the whisky aforesaid, and receive the same, or in case of disagreement about the price or value thereof to join in the ascertainment thereof by the intervention of Anthony Sanders, Samuel Smiley and William R. Hynes, and then receive it in discharge of their covenant aforesaid, and the appellees having so failed to attend at that place and on that day, viz: about the going down of the sun, set a part the whisky aforesaid, viz: six thousand gallons, at the place aforesaid, for said appellees, in discharge of their covenant aforesaid; but the appellees failed as above stated to attend then and there and receive it, or do and perform what was necessary to be done and performed on their part preparatory to the payment and receipt of the said whisky; and this they are ready to verify," etc. To which plea the appellees filed in substance a general replication, whereupon the appellants joined issue thereto. On the trial of the issue the appellees tendered a demurrer to the evidence and after admitting all the facts which the evidence conduced to prove, the Court compelled the appellants to join the demurrer. The Court decided the demurrer in favor of the appellees, and the verdict and judgment was obtained against the appellants, from which they have prosecuted this appeal. *2 In covenant to pay in varions articles of produce, the obligor cannot pay the whole amount in one of the articles mentioned. A repleader is never awarded in favor of him who commits the first fault in pleading--Tidd's Prac. K. B. 824--Kempe v. Crews. Ld. Ray. 170--1 Doug. 396, Webster v. Bannister, per Buller, just.--Turnor's case, 8 Cok. 133, b. The appellants have assigned various errors, most of which grow out of the trial of the issue joined in this cause. We will notice such only as are thought necessary to a decision of this case. It is objected that the plea of the appellants is materially and substantially defective; and hence it is inferred that any errors growing out of the issue joined thereon cannot avail them. The consideration of the sufficiency of that plea seems therefore first to demand notice. We have no doubt but that the hteral, plain and obvious import of the covenant upon which this suit is founded, required payment to be made in tobacco, whisky, pork, and the other articles therein mentioned, and that the delivery of no one article could have discharged the covenant. And it is evidently essential to a good tender, that it be made of those things stipulated to be performed. The plea, however, in this case, alleges a readiness to perform the covenant by paying whisky only, at the time and place stipulated. If payment could not have been made in whisky, had the appellees been present, of which we have no doubt, it evidently results that a plea containing allegations only of a readiness to pay whisky is bad. The plea most assuredly then contains no sufficient bar to the appellees' action, and consequently the issue joined thereon is immaterial. It would seem then necessarily to follow, that for errors growing out of the trial of that issue, when found against the appellants the judgment should not be reversed. This position is abundantly fortified by precedents in this Court, where they have refused to interpose in favor of a plaintiff where his declaration contains a material defect, although errors may have been committed in the progress of the cause against him. Besides, it is a settled rule that a repleader should not be awarded in favor of him who makes the first fault in pleading. Upon the whole, we think for any errors which may have grown out of the trial of the issue joined in this cause, the judgment should not be reversed; and consequently no examination need be made into the assignment of errors which bring them in question. But if, as has been contended by the appellants' counsel, material defects exist in the appellees' declaration, they afford sufficient cause for reversing the judgment. An inquiry into the sufficiency of the declaration, therefore, becomes necessary. With respect to the objection that the averment is insufficient as to the arbitrators having determined the market prices according to the meaning and effect of the deed of covenant, we think not entitled to weight. Although that averment is not strictly formal, it is substantially correct. The terms of submission contained in the deed of covenant, do not require the production of evidence to the referees to enable them to determine the market prices. They could do so from their own knowledge. The averment contains substantially everything which was necessary to be alleged. There being no other objection taken in the argument to the declaration, and none being perceived, the judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1813. Guthrie v. Wickliffe 3 Bibb 81, 6 Ky. 81, 1813 WL 606 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
