(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 465,  10 Ky. 465 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1134 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Olds v. Commonwealth. Jun. 5, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE AN ORDER OF THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Taxation 371 k 2471 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(H) Levy and Assessment 371III(H)3 Mode of Assessment in General 371k2462 List or Statement by  Taxpayer 371k2471 k. Prosecution for Failure to Make, or  for Making False List or Statement. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 371k335.5, 371k3351/2) In a prosecution against a person for failing to give in a list of his taxable property, it is no defense that the same property was given in by another. Taxation 371 k 2471 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(H) Levy and Assessment 371III(H)3 Mode of Assessment in General 371k2462 List or Statement by  Taxpayer 371k2471 k. Prosecution for Failure to Make, or  for Making False List or Statement. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 371k335.5, 371k3351/2) In a prosecution for failing to give in a list of taxable property, the defendant offered to prove that he had sold the property to another, and the attorney for the commonwealth admitted the fact of the sale.  Held, that the latter might be permitted to prove that the sale was fraudulent. Witnesses 410 k 404 410 Witnesses 410IV Credibility and Impeachment 410IV(E) Contradiction 410k403 Testimony Subject to Contradiction 410k404 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The district attorney, who admits that absent witnesses, to procure whose testimony an accused applied for a continuance, would swear to the facts stated if present, is not thereby precluded from contradicting or discrediting the facts stated, in the same way that the testimony of the witnesses could, if given, be contradicted or discredited. Criminal Law 110 k 600(2) 110 Criminal Law 110XIX Continuance 110k600 Admissions to Prevent Continuance 110k600(2) k. Admission of Affidavit as Testimony of  Absent Witness. Most Cited Cases Where a party wishes a continuance on account of the absence of a material witness, and the other party admits the facts expected to be proved by such witness, the party should be ruled to proceed to trial. Criminal Law 110 k 600(4) 110 Criminal Law 110XIX Continuance 110k600 Admissions to Prevent Continuance 110k600(4) k. Impeachment of Statement After Admission. Most  Cited Cases The rule that, after admitting as a deposition statements of an absent witness as shown by affidavit for a continuance, the adverse party cannot be permitted to prove the witness, if present, would not make statements attributed to him by the affidavit, does not preclude the state from contradicting by other testimony statements imputed to the witness, in the same manner that statements in a formal deposition may be contradicted. Criminal Law 110 k 2066 110 Criminal Law 110XXXI Counsel 110XXXI(F) Arguments and Statements by Counsel 110k2061 Control of Argument by Court 110k2066 k. Other Particular Issues. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 110k699) Where, in a prosecution for failing to give in a list of taxable property, the defendant wished to be heard upon the evidence, but the court refused to hear him, saying that they understood the cause was to be decided without argument, it was held that such refusal was sufficient ground for a new trial. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 In pursuance to information given by the sheriff, the county court of Jessamine, at its May term, 1819, made an order directing William Olds to be summoned to appear at the next term of the court to shew cause why he should not be fined and trebly taxed for failing to give in his billiard table for taxation. The process having been served on Olds, he appeared and moved the court to dismiss the prosecution on the grounds. 1st. That the penalty prescribed in such a case exceeds the jurisdiction of the county court. 2d. That the information was not given by the sheriff, and the prosecution commenced within the time required by law. 3d. That inasmuch as it appears from the commissioner's books that the billiard table was listed for taxation by Hawkins, the commonwealth should have pursued Hawkins for the tax, and not have prosecuted Olds for failing to enter the table for taxation. The court, however, overruled Olds motion and exceptions were taken to the opinion of the court. This court entertains no doubt but the decision of that court is correct. The act of assembly, prescribing the penalty for a failure to give a correct list of taxable property expressly gives to the county court, jurisdiction of the offence. In such a case, it is not the amount in contest, but the offence in not giving in a correct list of taxable property, that regulates the jurisdiction, and for all such offences the proceedings are required to be had in the county court. In proceedings for failing to give in a correct list of taxable property the city court has jurisdiction. The proceedings, it is true, should be had in the manner, and within the time prescribed by law; but we understand, that both as to the time and manner, the proceedings in this case conforms strictly to the requisitions of the law. By the act of the 30th January, 1810, (ses. acts, 1809, 120), prescribing the penalty, it is made the duty of the commissioner of the tax to give information against the first day of September in each year, of every delinquency in persons failing to give a true account of their taxable property, and as the information was not in the present case given to the county court by the commissioner, but by the sheriff, and as it was not given until May, 1819, whereas, by the act, it ought to have been given against the first of September, 1818, if there were no other act on the subject, the proceedings ought to have been dismissed on the motion of Olds. But by an act of the 3d February, 1813, (ses. acts, 1812, 97), it is not only made the duty of the sheriff to give information, to the court, of all persons who he may know to have failed to give a correct list of their taxable property; but instead of requiring the notice to be given by the first of September, as in the act of 1810, the time is prolonged until the first court after the first of May thereafter; and on such information being given, the county court is required to order the delinquent to be summoned, &c. *3 Information of such delinquencies properly given by the sheriff at any time at or before the first court after the first of May succeeding the offense. Under this latter act, therefore, the information given in the present case was in proper time, and the county court was correct in proceeding with the prosecution. Nor could the circumstance of the billiard table having been listed for taxation, by Hawkins, have justified the court in dismissing the prosecution; for if the table, in fact, belonged to Olds, he was bound to have listed it in his own name for taxation, and can not be excused for failing to do so, by the act of any other, in listing it in their name; and whether or not it belonged to Olds was properly a question of fact to be decided on the trial of the prosecution, and was not properly the subject of investigation on the motion of Olds to dismiss the prosecution. That property has been listed by another does not absolve the owner from the necessity of listing it in his own name. After Olds motion, to dismiss the prosecution, was overruled, he again moved the court for a reconsideration, and on that motion the court were equally divided in opinion, and it is contended that the division of opinion should have resulted in a dismission of the prosecution. This court, however, thinks differently. Giving to the division of the court the most favorable operation for Olds, it could have but authorized a reconsideration of the motion to dismiss, and if there had been a reconsideration, we have seen that it would have been irregular in the court to have dismissed the prosecution. Having failed in his motion to dismiss the prosecution, Olds moved the court for a continuance, on the ground of an absent witness, by whom, he swore, he expected to prove that the billiard table was sold to Hawkins, and by him owned and entered for taxation as his property.--Whereupon the attorney for the commonwealth admitted the statements made by Olds, and on that admission Olds was ruled to trial. If the facts expected to be proved by an absent witness, is admitted, the party should be ruled into trial. In the progress of the trial, Olds objection to the introduction of evidence tending to contradict the facts which he stated in his affidavit he expected to prove by the absent witness, but his objection was overruled and evidence introduced in contradiction to those facts, or going to shew that the sale of billiard table, to Hawkins, was fraudulent. Notwithstanding the fact of the sale of property is admitted, the commonwealth may shew such sale was fraudulent. This court perceives no solid objection to the admission of the evidence. We apprehend the admission of the attorney ought not to be construed otherwise than as an agreement to admit the affidavit of Olds to have the same operation in proving the facts therein mentioned, as if they had been proven by the absent witness; and if the facts had been proven by the absent witness, it would certainly have been competent for the attorney for the commonwealth to have controverted the facts by the introduction of other evidence. *4 After the evidence was gone through, the attorney for Olds asked permission of the court to be heard on the evidence, but the court, observing that they understood they were to decide the case without agreement, refused to hear any, notwithstanding the express declarations of the attorney of Olds, that he had never intimated an intention not to argue the cause on the merits. Prosecutions for failing to list property, partakes of a criminal prosesution, and the party accused has a right to be heard, unless he waives that right. The only difficulty growing out of this branch of the cause results from the confused statement of facts contained in the bill of exceptions. That this case partakes of the nature of a criminal prosecution there can be no question, and in all such cases the constitution of this country has guaranteed to the accused the right to be heard by himself and counsel. It is a right, however, that the exercise whereof may be waived by the accused, and the only question about which we have had any difficulty, is whether, in this case, the right was waived. We are inclined, however, to the opinion that nothing was done by either Olds or his attorney which ought to be construed into a waiver of the right to be heard. The bill of exceptions contains the statement of no fact from which such a waiver can be implied. The court say, they understood that the cause was to be decided by them without argument; but we are not informed from what facts their inference was deduced, and we are told by the bill of exceptions, that no assent was given by Olds' attorney to a decision without argument. Because, therefore, the counsel of Olds was not permitted to argue the cause, the judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below and a new trial there had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1821. Olds v. Commonwealth 3 A.K.Marsh. 465, 10 Ky. 465, 1821 WL 1134 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
