(Cite as: 4 Bibb 556,  7 Ky. 556 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1101 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Baugh v. Abraham Baugh, etc. Jun. 3, 1817. *1 An interlocutory decree of a Courtof Chancery in Virginia does not preclude the party against whom it is made from questioning its correctness in a controversy about the same matter in a Court of this country. A testator loans to his wife the use of the plantation whereon he lived, and three negroes and certain personal property, during her natural life, and then to descend to his two sons A and W, as he should thereafter mention -- by a subsequent clause he gives part of the tract of land to W, and all the balance of the property, both real and personal, loaned to the wife, to A, after the decease of his mother, W is not entitled to a moiety of the slaves under the first clause. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 815 228 Judgment 228XVII Foreign Judgments 228k814 Judgments of State Courts 228k815 k. Adjudications Operative in Other States. Most  Cited Cases An interlocutory decree, in Virginia, does not preclude a party from questioning its correctness in a suit about the same matter in the courts of Kentucky. Wills 409 k 585(1) 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(D) Description of Property 409k585 Substituted, or Cumulative, or Additional Devise or  Bequest 409k585(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A testator directed that after a life estate was ended property should descend to A. and B. as he should thereafter mention. In a subsequent clause, he gave a tract of land to B., and all the balance of his estate, both real and personal, to A. Held, that B. could not claim under the first clause. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. UPON the death of the father of the appellant, and the appellee Abraham, the appellant brought suit in the Court of Chancery in the State of Virginia, for the purpose of obtaining from Abraham one moiety of the slaves now in contest, the right whereof was asserted under the will of the father. The chancellor in that State being of opinion the will gave to the appellant one moiety of the slaves, pronounced an interlocutory decree accordingly; but before the decree could be made final, the appellee Abraham removed himself and the slaves to this country; and the appellant having also came to this State, he exhibited his bill in equity in the Garrard Circuit Court, for the purpose of compelling partition in the slaves, etc. On a final hearing of the cause, the Circuit Court differing in opinion from the chancellor of Virginia, dismissed the bill with costs; and from that decree the appellant has appealed to this Court. Whatever force and effect, under the constitution and laws of the United States, the final decree of a sister State is entitled to it is perfectly clear that as the chancellor of Virginia might, at any time before a final decree, set aside the interlocutory decree made by him, that decree ought not in a contest in this country to preclude the appellee from questioning its correctness, or influence the Court in giving a construction to the will under which the complainant in both Courts derives his claim to the slaves. *2 Whether, therefore, the appellant is entitled to relief turns exclusively upon the import of the will. His right to a moiety of the slaves is endeavored to be maintained under the provision of the will whereby the testator loans to his wife the use of the land and plantation whereon he lived, and three negroes, Frank, Nance and Lewis, etc., during her natural life, and directed that the same should then descend to his two sons Abraham and William, as he should thereafter mention. From this provision the testator clearly intended his sons William and Abraham should, after the death of his wife, have the property loaned to her during her life; but by his directing it should then descend to them as might be thereafter mentioned, it is equally clear he could not have intended to point out by that provision the interest either should be entitled to, but barely to name the persons to whom the property should ultimately pass, and leave to be thereafter mentioned the proportion which each should finally enjoy. That such was the intention of the testator, we are the more thoroughly convinced, from other provisions of the will in relation to the same property: for by a subsequent clause he has not only given part of the tract of land to William, but all the balance of the property, both real and personal, loaned to the wife, is moreover by another clause expressly given to Abraham, after the decease of his mother. Upon a fair construction of the will, we are, therefore, of opinion, the testator did not intend the appellant should have any of the negroes in contest, and that the Court below properly dismissed his bill. Decree affirmed. Ky.App. 1817. Baugh v. Baugh 4 Bibb 556, 7 Ky. 556, 1817 WL 1101 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
