(Cite as: 3 Bibb 334,  6 Ky. 334 (Ky.),  1814 WL 779 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Johnston v. Lynch & Adair. May 21, 1814. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 69 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k69 k. Death of Debtor Before Issue of Writ. Most Cited Cases If one of several defendants dies after judgment and before execution, a scire facias is not necessary to authorize execution against the survivors. If the execution in such case issues against all the defendants, without suggestion of the death of the one, the survivors cannot assign it for error. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 JONSTON obtained judgment by confession against Lynch for 1000 dollars with interest at the rate of five per centum per annum thereon from the 29th day of January, 1798, until paid, and costs. An execution issued corresponding with the judgment, and a replevin bond was entered into by Lynch, and Blanton and Adair, his securities, under the penalty of 2842 dollars 83 cents, conditioned to pay the principal, interest and costs, amounting to 1421 dollars 41 1/2 cents, and bearing date the 30th June, 1804. To obtain relief, Lynch exhibited his bill in chancery, and obtained an injunction on the judgment and proceedings at law. On a final hearing of the cause in equity, the Court dismissed his bill with ten per cent. damages and costs. From this decree Lynch prosecuted an appeal to this Court, where the decree of the Court below was affirmed with damages on the damages decreed by that Court and costs. A fieri facias then issued, commanding the sheriff that he cause to be made of the estate of Lynch, Blanton and Adair, 2842 dollars 83 cents, which Johnson had recovered against them on a replevin bond, and also 11 dollars 9 1/2 cents costs. Upon the back of this execution were the following indorsements, viz: "Memo??--The within execution is to be discharged by the payment of 1421 dollars 41 cents and 5 mills, with interest thereon from the 30th of June, 1804, at the rate of six per cent. per annum until paid, and the costs within mentioned. No security to be taken. Att. Richard Todd, D. C. One hundred and forty pounds, with interest, for the benefit of George Findly--See papers filed. Willis A. Lee, C. G. C. The sheriff of Mercer is hereby directed to levy and make ten per centum damages on the amount due on the 5th December, 1804, in consequence of the dissolution of the injunction obtained herein. Willis A. Lee, C. G. C. The sheriff of Mercer is hereby directed to levy and make ten per centum damages on the amount due on the 16th of December, 1805, in consequence of the said Lynch failing upon an appeal herein before the Court of Appeals. Willis A. Lee, C. G. C." The indorsement of an execution forms a part of it. An execution ??or damages on dissolution of an injunction, cannot issue against the principal and against his securities in a replevin bond, when they were not parties to the suit in chancery in which the principal obtained the injunction. And an execution on the replevin bond against all the obligors, indorsed to be discharged by the sum expressed in the condition and by the damages and costs of the injunction, is erroneous, but this is a clerical misprison, amendable by the judgment; and in such cases of clerical misprison the the Court are bound to give leave to amend. If one of several defendants dies after judgment and before execution, a sci. fa. is not necessary to authorize execution against the survivors. How execution in such case is to be issued. If it issues against all, without suggestion of the death of the one, the survivors cannot take advantage of it. *2 By virtue of this execution the sheriff levied and sold a tract of 418 acres of land, the property of Adair. After this a ca. sa. issued against the same persons for the like sum, with the like indorsements of those on the fi. fa. To be relieved against these executions Lynch and Adair prosecuted a writ of error coram vobis, and assigned for error therein--1. That there was no judgment, nor decree, nor bond having the force of a judgment, against Lynch, Adair and Blanton, which authorized the executions, or either of them, in manner and form as they have issued. 2. There is no judgment against the defendants in the executions for the costs therein mentioned. 3. The executions improperly issued against persons therein named, the said Blanton having departed this life before the issuing of either of the executions. Upon calling the writ of error for trial, Johnston moved the Court to amend the executions; but the amendment was refused and the executions quashed. From this judgment Johnston has appealed to this Court. In the consideration of this cause, we shall consider as a correct principle, that the indorsements on the executions form part of them. Such has heretofore been the decision of this Court, and we have seen no good reason for departing from that decision. Testing this case then by that principle, it evidently results that they include sums for which Adair and Blanton are not responsible. They were not parties to the suit in chancery, and consequently not liable for the costs or damages adjudged on the dissolution of the injunction, or on the affirmance of the decree by this Court. For those damages and costs an execution could regularly have issued against Lynch only. But as they were jointly bound with him in the replevin bond, by the amount due on that bond, executions might regularly have issued against them all jointly. But for the excess above the sum secured by the replevin bond, the executions are clearly erroneous. But what should be the effect of the irregularity--whether it is amendable or entirely vitiates the executions, is the principal inquiry in this cause. It is true, according to the strict ancient rules of the common law, errors in the process were not amendable; but by various statutes and adjudications of more modern date, the rule is now incontrovertibly settled, that errors occasioned by clerical misprisons, where there exists anything in the record to amend by, will be amended. And this will be done whether the error exists in the proceedings before or after judgment. Thus it has been held that the judgment may be amended by the verdict and the writ of execution by the judgment, or by the award of it on the roll--See Tidd's Prac. 662, and the authorities there cited. And in the case of  Phelps v. Ball, 1 John. Cases 31, it was held by the Supreme Court of New York, that an execution was amendable after it had been returned satisfied. And according to the same principle, it has been repeatedly held by this Court, errors for excess in replevin bonds are amendable--See Pr. Dec. 170, 173, 175, 208, 218, 249. That the error in the excess complained of in the executions in question, is a clerical misprison, and there exists enough in the record to amend by, there can be no doubt: for although all the defendants in the executions are not liable to the full amount of the executions with their indorsements, it is evident upon what judgment and replevin bond the executions issued; and as they are liable only for the amount of the replevin bond, it is clear the excess above that is the misprison of the clerk. But it was contended in argument that if the executions are amendable, it is at the discretion of the Court; and that under the circumstances of this case, that discretion has not been used in withholding the amendment. It is true during the progress of a cause the Court has a discretion in permitting amendments of defects or omissions produced by the act of the parties; but this rule, we apprehend, does not prevail in applications to amend errors produced by the misprison of the clerk: for in such a case the right to amend is given by the statutes of amendment, strictly so called, and cannot be controlled by the discretion of the judge. We are of opinion, therefore, that the executions should have been amended by correcting the excess above the amount for which Lynch, Adair and Blanton are jointly liable, and that the Court below consequently erred in refusing to make the amendment. Judge LOGAN dissents from the preceding part of this opinion. *3 But it was assigned for error in the writ of error coram vobis, that the executions improperly issued against the persons therein named, Blanton having departed this life before the date of either. It remains, therefore, to determine the effect of that assignment of error. It seems anciently to have been held that where one of two or more defendants to a joint judgment died after judgment, that before an execution could issue the judgment should be revived by scire facias. But it appears now to be settled that in such a case execution may issue without a revival; and as the execution must agree with the judgment, it should be sued out in the name of all the defendants--See Williams' note 4 to 2 Saund. 72, k. and the authorities there cited, and 2 Tidd's Prac. 1009. The executions, therefore, properly issued against all those named in the replevin bond. Whether there should have been a suggestion of Blanton's death before the issuing of the execution, the assignment of errors in the writ of error coram vobis does not make it necessary for us to decide, nor do we intend it to be understood as having been decided; but as the charge survives against Lynch and Adair, they can sustain no possible injury by the executions issuing without such a suggestion; and it would therefore seem to follow that if such a suggestion was necessary, the failing to make it is an error of which they cannot complain. The judgment of the Court below, therefore, must be reversed, the cause remanded to that Court and judgment there entered according to the principle of this opinion. The appellees must pay the appellant his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1814. Johnston v. Lynch 3 Bibb 334, 6 Ky. 334, 1814 WL 779 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
