(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 197,  8 Ky. 197 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1307 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ths. Holt, Survivor, &c. v. Rob't Trabue et al. Apr. 17, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE BOURBON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 139 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k139 k. Rights of Parties as to Improvements in General. Most Cited Cases A successful claimant to lands cannot be subjected to the payment for improvements made while the land was occupied by him. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Holt having brought suit against Trabue's heirs, and obtained a decree of the court below for the land in contest, by the process of that court was put in possession of the land. But the cause being brought before this court by the heirs of Trabue, the decree of that court was reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings, with directions for restitution of the possession to be made to the heirs; and the possession being accordingly restored to the heirs, the cause was again, after being fully prepared, brought on to a final hearing, and a decree ultimately pronounced in favor of Holt for the land. Commissioners were then appointed under the occupying claimant law, and having reported rents against Holt, for the time he was in the possession of the land under the process of the court, judgment was accordingly, rendered against him; and the main question now presented for determination, involves the propriety of charging Holt with those rents. Giving the law in relation to occupying claimants the most liberal construction in favor of occupants, we are unable to perceive any principle upon which the successful claimant can be made chargeable for rents whilst he may have been possessed of the land. A successful claimant to lands can not be subjected to the payment of rents or improvements made, while the land was occupied by him. To compel the owner to pay rents for using land properly his own, would be obviously opposed to the plainest principles of common justice; and as the act contains no provision expressly making such a liability, the successful claimant can not upon any rule of construction, be subjected to the payment of rent. Because, therefore, judgment was rendered against Holt for the rents, it must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and the report of the commissioners corrected by striking from it so much as relates either to improvements made by Holt, or rents charged against him, and such other proceedings had as may be consistent with this opinion. Hardin and Bibb, for plaintiff; Talbot, for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1818. Holt v. Trabue 1 A.K.Marsh. 197, 8 Ky. 197, 1818 WL 1307 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
