(Cite as: 5 Litt. 304,  15 Ky. 304 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1847 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Chord's Heirs v. M'Clintock. Jun. 7, 1824. *1 FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. WM. WARREN SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Assistance, Writ Of 40 k 5 40 Assistance, Writ Of 40k5 k. Persons Against Whom Writ May Issue. Most Cited Cases It is irregular for a sheriff under a writ of habere facias possessionem, to dispossess a person holding the land as tenant, when neither, he nor his landlord, who claimed adversely to the parties who obtained the decree, were parties to the suit. Assistance, Writ Of 40 k 10 40 Assistance, Writ Of 40k10 k. Vacating. Most Cited Cases A tenant having been wrongfully dispossessed on a writ of possession in an action to which he was not a party, the landlord may properly move for restitution. WICKLIFFE for plaintiffs; BARRY for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. In a chancery suit prosecuted by the heirs of M'Chord against David Logan and Hugh Talbot, a decree was pronounced in favor of the former, for a tract of land therein particularly described. A decree has no legal effect against persons not parties or privies to the suit in which it is pronounced. At the time of pronouncing this decree, John Sims was in possession of part of the land, holding as tenant under M'Clintock, who claims adversely to M'Chord's heirs and Logan; but neither Sims nor M'Clintock was party to the suit in which the decree was pronounced. A complainant can not, by virtue of a writ of possession issued to carry into effect a decree, turn out a person who was not a party or privy to the suit. Under a writ of habere facias possessionem, which issued upon the decree, the sheriff dispossessed Sims, and returned upon the writ that he had delivered the possession to the heirs of M'Chord. M'Clintock then applied to the court, and obtained an order for a writ of restitution, to be restored to the possession of the land from which the sheriff had expelled Sims. To reverse that order, the heirs of M'Chord have brought the case to this court. Under the writ of habere facias possessionem, which issued upon the decree, it was undoubtedly irregular for the sheriff to dispossess Sims. The doctrine is well settled, that a decree has no legal efficacy against persons not party or privy to the suit in which it is pronounced, and as the object of the writ of possession which issued in favor of the heirs of M'Chord, was to carry into effect the decree upon which it issued, the sheriff most indubitably can have derived therefrom no authority to disposses Sims, who was no party to the suit, and who held the possession under M'Clintock, who was also no party. In such case, the evidence being clear, the court should correct the abuse, by awarding a writ of restitution: but if the evidence is of a doubtful character, the party should be left to his remedy at law. *2 The sheriff having, therefore, transcended his authority in dispossessing Sims, it was, we apprehend, not only proper, but incumbent upon the court to correct the abuse of its process, by awarding a writ of restitution. If the evidence going to shew the abuse of the process of the court by the sheriff in delivering the possession of Sims to the heirs, were of a doubtful character, it might have been competent for the court to refuse to decide upon the evidence in this summary mode, and leave Sims and his landlord, M'Clintock, to assert their right in the accustomed action of ejectment, as was done in the case of  Logan v. M'Nutt, 3 Bibb 530. A landlord may make the motion for restitution, where his tenant has been ousted. But in this case, there is no room for controversy, as to the facts upon which the application of M'Clintock for restitution is predicated. It is not pretended that either Sims or M'Clintock was party to the suit in chancery, brought by the heirs of M'Chord against Logan, and the fact of Sims being possessed of the land as tenant to M'Clintock, when the decree was pronounced, is incontestably established by the evidence. We attach no importance to the circumstance of the application for restitution having been made by M'Clintock, and not by Sims. As the landlord of Sims, we suppose M'Clintock must be understood to be bound to defend the possession, and as such, might correctly apply to the court to obtain the restoration of that possession, which had been illegally taken from his tenant. The order of the court must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1824. McChord's Heirs v. McClintock 5 Litt. 304, 15 Ky. 304, 1824 WL 1847 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
