(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 323,  19 Ky. 323 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1304 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Craig v. Johnson's Heirs. Oct. 18, 1826. *1 Entries. Ohio Bottom. Construction. Sales for Taxes. APPEAL FROM THE SCOTT CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Taxation 371 k 3136 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(N) Tax Titles 371III(N)2 Tax Deeds 371k3133 Effect as to  Title 371k3136 k. Evidence of Title Dependent on Preliminary  or Supplementary Proof. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 371k789(3)) A tax deed is not evidence of title, without affirmative proof that all the requirements of the law, from the listing of the property to the execution of the deed, have been strictly complied with. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This is an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill brought by Craig, in the court below, against the heirs of Robert Johnson, deceased. Bill under the junior patent relying on the superior entry for release of the elder title. The appellees hold under an adverse claim, and the object of Craig's bill, was to obtain from them a conveyance of their legal title to two hundred and fifty acres of land, part of a survey of one thousand acres, made under an entry for that quantity of acres in the name of John Hawkins Craig.--The entry of John Hawkins Craig was made the 12th of December, 1782-- "Beginning at the lower end of the first big bottom above James Southall's entry, running up the river and binding on the same as far as the law allows for quantity." John Hawkins Craig's entry relied upon in the bill. James Southall's entry was made the 29th of May, 1780, "and is for one thousand acres, calling to lie on the Ohio, about twenty miles below the big bone lick creek, beginning at a hoopwood and hickory, on the river bank, running the courses thereof, five hundred and forty poles, and back for quantity." Southall's entry called for in Craig's. The survey which was made upon Craig's entry, begins on the bank of the Ohio river, one hundred and thirty-six poles below the mouth of Craig's creek, and includes the bottom upon which the town of Fredericksburg stands. Without stopping to inquire where Southall's entry lies, it may, as respects the present contest, be taken for granted, that the bottom upon which Craig's survey was made, is the first large bottom of the Ohio, above the entry of Southall. Place Southall twenty miles below the Big Bone creek, and from thence ascending the river, you pass no big bottom until you arrive at the one upon which Craig's survey is made. Craig's survey. We shall, therefore, assume the fact to be, that the locator of Craig's entry intended to make the lower end of the bottom upon which Craig has actually surveyed, the beginning of his entry, so that in deciding upon the equity asserted by Craig through his entry, it is barely necessary to ascertain whether or not his survey conforms to the calls of his entry. This question must, we apprehend, be answered in the negative. Instead of beginning, as it does, one hundred and thirty-six poles below the mouth of Craig's creek, the survey, to have conformed to the entry, should have began at the lower end of the bottom. With respect to the precise point at which the bottom terminates below, there is considerable difference of opinion between the witnesses whose depositions have been taken in the cause. *2 Inquired on the evidence where is the lower end of a certain big bottom on the Ohio, and held not to be at the mouth of a certain creek, because the bottom seemed to extend farther down, but at a point below, fixed by the testimony. Whilst some of them point to the mouth of Craig's creek, as the lower end of the bottom, others fix it at the mouth of a gut, about two hundred poles below. Between these conflicting opinions, we feel constrained to adopt the latter, as conforming better with the actual position of the bottom. In point of fact, there is a bottom below the mouth of Craig's creek, and though it may be said to be separated from the bottom above, by the creek, it must be understood to form part of the big bottom on the Ohio, through which the creek passes.--Such, we think, from the evidence in the cause, would, most probably be the opinion of a majority of those who might desire to appropriate the adjacent residuum, and such must have been the understanding of Craig, or he would have commenced his survey at the mouth of Craig's creek. The survey of Craig should, therefore, have been made to begin at the mouth of the gut, below the mouth of Craig's creek, and when so begun and run in conformity to his entry, no part of the land in contest, will be included. It consequently, follows, that in virtue of the entry, Craig can not be entitled to any relief. But it is not through that entry only, that relief is sought by the complainant in the court below. He states, in his bill, that whilst the entire survey belonged to John Hawkins Craig, his agent, George Turner, purchased for him, at a sale for direct taxes, two thousand, five hundred acres of land, part of surveys, including a greater quantity, made for John Moseby; that the purchase so made, includes Craig's survey of a thousand acres, and a still greater quantity of Moseby's, in which Robert Johnson, the defendants' ancestor, had an interest, and was agent for Moseby; and that being desirous of quieting his claim of all controversy with Moseby, Craig concluded an agreement with Johnson for himself, and as agent for Moseby, whereby it was stipulated, that the certificate of purchase held by Craig, should be surrendered up to Johnson, and the claim of Moseby, so far as interferred with Craig, should be surrendered to Craig. The complainant also states in his bill, that in pursuenca of that agreement, Johnson executed a writing to John Hawkins Craig, and that when he was about to purchase the land now in contest, from John H. Craig, perceiving that the writing which Johnson had executed was somewhat ambiguously expressed, and wishing to avoid legal controversy, he refused to conclude the purchase, without further evidence from Johnson, of his contract with John H. Craig; that Johnson gave an additional writing, upon the receipt of which, he concluded the purchase, and he insists, that under those writings, the defendants should be compelled to surrender their title, though the entry of John H. Craig, be adjudged not to include the land in contest. *3 Craig's claim under defendant's title by purchase for the taxes, and contract with Johnson. Upon this branch of the cause, we have looked into the writings executed by Johnson, and after the most careful examination, we have been utterly incapable of discovering any thing in them, which, upon any principle of interpretation, can be construed to have the effect contended for on the part of the complainant. Each of the writings acknowledge the receipt, by Johnson, of an assignment from Craig, of his certificate of purchase, and go to shew, that notwithstanding the assignment, Craig was still entitled to the benefit of the certificate, so far as the land of which the certificate was evidence of his purchase, included his survey of one thousand acres; but neither writing, contains a solitary expression indicating, in the slightest degree, an intention, on the part of Johnson, to surrender to Craig, the claim of Moseby. Held on the face of the writings, that the agreement between Craig and Johnson, was only that the surrender by Craig, of his certificate of purchase of Johnson's claim for taxes, should not effect Craig's claim, leaving Johnson's claim also unaffected to the interference between their grants; and so this ground of complaint overruled. The only effect the writings, given by Johnson, can therefore have, is to preserve to John H. Craig, the beneficial interest, in so much of his certificate of purchase, for the direct tax, as includes his survey of one thousand acres. And of course, through those writings, the complainant can have derived no equity, unless the sale of which the certificate is the evidence, is proved to have been made in conformity to law. Nothing of this sort, is however, attempted by the complainant.--He has not even alleged, in his bill, that the sale for the taxes was duly and regularly made, nor has he attempted to introduce any evidence upon the subject. Claim under the purchase for the taxes not supported. The bill of the complainant, was therefore, correctly dismissed, and the decree must, consequently, be affirmed with cost. Haggin, for appellant; Crittenden, for appellees. Ky.App. 1826. Craig v. Johnson's Heirs 3 T.B.Mon. 323, 19 Ky. 323, 1826 WL 1304 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
