(Cite as: 4 Litt. 177,  14 Ky. 177 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1250 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bates, &c. v. Todd's Heirs, &c. Oct. 16, 1823. *1 FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Compromise and Settlement 89 k 6(6) 89 Compromise and Settlement 89I In General 89k1 Nature and Requisites 89k6 Consideration 89k6(6) k. Inadequacy. Most Cited  Cases A contract of compromise will be supported, though the amount given is greatly disproportionate to what a party is bound to pay, in the absence of fraud or misrepresentation. Compromise and Settlement 89 k 17(2) 89 Compromise and Settlement 89I In General 89k14 Operation and Effect 89k17 Conclusiveness 89k17(2) k. Persons concluded. Most Cited  Cases A. having bound himself to convey to B. a quantity of land on payment of a sum of money, the contract was afterwards assigned by the obligee to three parties. C., having an assignment of all the interest of one of the three assignees, gave up to A. the original contract, on a compromise of a suit brought on said contract;  receiving therefor two bonds from A., which were assigned to D., who recovered judgment.  Held, on a bill for relief filed by the heirs of A., that the compromise could not be set aside, C.'s assignor having paid all that was ever received by A. on the original contract, although said payment formed too inconsiderable a part of the consideration to have entitled the party paying it to enforce a specific performance of the contract, and A. had supposed that in making the compromise the whole claim was settled;  two of the three assignees of B. having lost all claim on A. by neglecting to prosecute it and pay the residue of the consideration, and the compromise not having been procured by any fraud on the part of B. HUMPHREYS, WICKLIFFE and FORBES for appellants; CLAY, HAGGIN and BARRY for appellees. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Robert Todd, the ancestor of the appellees, on the 23d of September, 1784, entered into a written agreement with a certain Isaac Morrison, under the seals of the parties, by which he bound himself to convey to the said Morrison 6,000 acres of land in the county of Fayette, as soon as a deed could be reasonably obtained; in consideration whereof, Morrison bound himself to pay to the said Todd six hundred pounds, one hundred pounds thereof in merchandise, at the price of not more than one hundred per centum above the original cost, against the first of January, 1785, twenty-five pounds in cash and the same amount in merchandise, against the first of May, 1786, and the balance against the first of May, 1788. A contract of compromise supported, although the amount given was vastly disproportioned to what the party was bound to pay, even if the demand had not been barred by the statute of limitations, which seems to have been the case when the first compromise took place; it not appearing that any fraud or misrepresentation had been used, and that after a suit had been brought on the first compromise, a second compromise took place, and the first suit was dismissed, and no attempt was made to impeach the fairness of either contract, until after judgments were obtained on the second. *2 By endorsements on the back of this agreement, it appears to have been assigned, on the 20th of November, 1784, by Isaac Morrison to Isaac Cox, and on the 18th of December, 1785, one equal third part of the contents thereof was assigned by Isaac Cox to James Morrison, and one-third to Isaac Morrison. Cox, Isaac and James Morrison have all since departed this life, and the agreement being found among the papers of James, after his death, his son, James Morrison, on the 12th of February, 1807, made an endorsement thereon, "assigning all the title of James Morrison to John and James Bates." The Bateses presented the agreement to Robert Todd, and demanded of him a conveyance; but, instead of conveying the land, a written agreement was then entered into between the Bateses and Todd, and sealed by the parties, wherein it was stipulated, "that in consideration of certain accounts due said Bateses, assignees of the heirs of James Morrison, formerly of Bardstown, the said Todd will pay said Bateses the value of seven hundred acres of good second rate land, in what was Fayette county, the 23d of September, 1784, &c. the payment to be made in treasury warrant or military lands, at their cash valuation," & c.; and at the same time, to-wit, on the 16th of March, 1807, the Bateses, on the back of an account drawn up in favor of James Morrison, for L>>>>>59 16si 11Id, against Robert Todd, for merchandise received by the latter on the 12th of July, 1785, gave a receipt acknowledging the receipt of the said account from Todd, in a bond for lands, as part of the consideration paid by James Morrison for a contract for six thousand acres of land; and at the same time the Bateses delivered to Todd the written agreement which had been executed between him and Isaac Morrison, on the 23d of September, 1784, for the 6,000 acres of land. Lapse of time and non-performance on the part of the complainants, held to bar relief on that part of the contract which had not been revived and confirmed by compromise. Todd failed to comply with this latter obligation, and the Bateses brought an action against him thereon at law. During the pendency of the suit, another agreement was entered into between the Bateses and Todd, by which the suit was dismissed, and Todd executed to the Bateses two obligations, one for the payment of $1,650 in money, and the other for the payment of $1,650 in land. These bonds were afterwards assigned by the Bateses to Henry Skipwith, of Virginia, and suits brought thereon, and judgments, recovered at law. To enjoin these judgments, and to be relieved from the various contracts and agreements, the heirs and representatives of Robert Todd, and John Todd, (who had executed one of the notes, at the instance and for the benefit of Robert Todd), filed their bill in chancery, in the Fayette circuit court. In this bill, the Bateses, the representatives of Cox, of Isaac Morrison, of James Morrison, and Henry Skipwith and Walter Warfield, his agent, are all made defendants. Skipwith afterwards died, and the suit was revived against his representatives. *3 In their bill, the complainants set out the various contracts and agreements of their ancestor, Robert Todd, deceased, and allege that not more of the consideration agreed to be paid by Isaac Morrison for the 6,000 acres of land, than L59 16si 11Id, has ever in fact been paid by him, or any other person for him; that in consequence of the failure of Morrison to pay the consideration, their ancestor, Robert Todd, was under no obligation to convey the 6,000 acres of land, when the agreement was presented to him in 1807, by the Bateses; but, being desirous to avoid controversy, and to be released from the agreement, their ancestor was induced to enter into the agreement of that date, with the Bateses; that he was induced by the representations of the Bateses, to believe they were the propritors of the entire agreement of 1784, for the 6,000 acres, and that the agreement of 1807, for the value of 700 acres, was executed by him, and received by the Bateses as a complete discharge of that of 1784. The Bateses at the same time holding the possession of the agreement of 1784, delivered it up to their ancestor, Robert Todd, to be cancelled. But they charge, that they have since discovered that, at the time their ancestor entered into the agreement of 1807, the Bateses were entitled to but a small interest in the agreement of 1784, they having derived their interest through an assignment made by James Morrison, one of seven children of the assignee, James Morrison, deceased, who according to the assignment to him, was not entitled to but one-third of the agreement of 1784; and the heirs of Cox, claiming an interest to one-third, and the heirs of Isaac Morrison, claiming also one-third, have since commenced their suits against them, for their respective thirds. They also charge, that, laboring under the same delusion as to the right of the Bateses to receive satisfaction for the entire agreement of 1784, their ancestor, after the suit was brought against him on the agreement of 1807, executed the obligations upon which the judgments at law were obtained. They, moreover, allege that $400 of the judgments has been paid to Warfield, the agent of Skipwith, and pray for the appropriate relief, &c. The Bateses answer, admitting the several agreements alleged to have been executed by the deceased, Robert Todd, together with the several assignments made upon the agreement of 1784; but they deny that either of them, by any representation whatever, induced the said Todd to believe they were the proprietors of the entire agreement of 1784. To the contrary, they allege that they derived their interest in that agreement through the assignment of James Morrison, jun. for himself and the other heirs of James Morrison, deceased, made for the purpose, and as it expresses, transferring to them the interest of the deceased James Morrison only; that it was for the purpose of obtaining that interest, the demand was made by them of Robert Todd, in 1807, and that when applied to for that purpose, Todd first denied having received any part of the price for the land, either from Isaac Cox or Isaac Morrison; but, after some reflection, admitted that he had received from James Morrison about seventy pounds, which was to be credited on the agreement, and proposed to give them (the Bateses) seven hundred acres of land, the quantity acknowledged to be paid for by James Morrison; which proposition was acceded to by them, and the agreement of 1807 executed. They admit holding the original agreement of 1784, when that of 1807 was made, and that it was delivered by them, at that time, to Todd; but they insist that the latter agreement was entered into for the purpose of discharging their claim to the one-third of the original agreement, which had been assigned to James Morrison by Cox, and by the son of said Morrison, for himself and his co-heirs, assigned to them. They admit that the obligations upon which judgments have been obtained, were given upon a compromise of the suit which they had commenced against Todd on the agreement of 1807, and protest against having made any false representations, or employed any unfair means to induce Todd to enter into either agreement. They admit the payment of $400 by Warfield, and insist the bill should be dismissed, &c. *4 The representatives of James Morrison state, that their ancestor was entitled to one-third of the agreement of 1784, by assignment from Cox, and admit that after the death of their father, that third was assigned by James, for himself and co-heirs, to the Bateses, &c. The representatives of Isaac Morrison and Isaac Cox allege that their fathers were each entitled to one-third of the original agreement of 1784; and after making their answer a cross bill, the representatives of Isaac Morrison pray for their ancestor's third to be decreed to them, &c. The representatives of Skipwith answer, alleging that their testator was a bona fide and innocent purchaser of the bonds upon which judgments have been obtained, for a valuable consideration, from the Bateses; and after making their answer a cross bill, pray a decree over against the Bateses, if, by the final decree of the court, the complainants should be relieved against those judgments, &c. The court below, on a final hearing, made the injunction which had been awarded to the complainants against the judgments at law, perpetual, and decreed a cancelment of the two agreements made between Todd and the Bateses; and by the consent of the Bateses and the representatives of Skipwith, to avoid circuity of action, decreed that the Bateses should pay the complainants, the $400 which had been paid to Skipwith by the complainants, and that the Bateses should pay the residue of the judgments to the representatives of Skipwith, and that the Bateses should pay the complainants their costs. It was also decreed that the cross bill of Isaac Morrison's heirs should be dismissed. From that decree the defendants have appealed to this court. Throwing out of view the agreements between Robert Todd and the Bateses, it would not be contended that the agreement between Isaac Morrison and Robert Todd could have been specifically enforced by a court of equity; for although L 59 16si 11Id of the price agreed to have been given for the 6,000 acres of land, may have been paid, that sum forms too inconsiderable a part of the whole consideration, to authorize an enforcement of Todd's covenant, after the great neglect of Isaac Morrison and those claiming under him, in not paying the residue of the consideration. But, notwithstanding the agreement of 1784, would not have been specifically enforced by the decree of a court of equity, it does not thence necessarily follow, that Todd or his representatives should be released from the subsequent agreements entered into between Todd and the Bateses. The agreement of 1784 had, nevertheless, not been performed by Todd; it was still a subsisting demand against him, about which it was competent for the parties interested to contract and compromise, in the manner most acceptable to themselves. Erroneous impressions as to the extent of Todd's liability under the agreement of 1784, may have induced him to enter into that of 1807, with the Bateses; and under the influence of the same delusion, he may have given the obligations upon which the judgments at law have been rendered; but an error of that sort, we apprehend, is insufficient to overturn those subsequent agreements of compromise, if otherwise fairly obtained. Without regard to any original liability, an existing demand forms in itself a sufficient consideration to uphold an agreement of compromise; and, when made, the parties will be left to abide by their compromise, unless, by misrepresentation or other undue means, the agreement be contaminated with fraud. *5 But, in this case, relief is not sought by the complainants exclusively upon the ground of their ancestor, Robert Todd, having been mistaken as to the extent of his liability under the agreement of 1784. They charge the Bateses with having fraudulently induced their ancestor to enter into the subsequent agreements, by assuming to be the proprietors of the entire agreement of 1784, when in fact they possessed an interest of one-third only. The Bateses admit, that at the time of making those subsequent agreements, they were possessed of an interest in but one-third of the agreement of 1784, and deny that they ever assumed to be the proprietors of a greater interest. It is mainly upon this controverted fact, that the decision of the present case must essentially turn. It is, therefore, important to advert to the circumstances which seem to have a bearing on this fact. The answer of the Bateses has been relied on by the counsel of the defendants, in support of the affirmative of the charge made in the bill. It was contended, that according to their answers, the subsequent agreement of 1807, for the 700 acres of land, must be understood to have been given in satisfaction of the whole of the land then admitted to have been paid for, and that Todd must consequently, whilst making that agreement, have acted upon the supposition that the Bateses were entitled to the whole, and not a part only. It may be, and is most probably true, that when making the agreement of 1807, Todd supposed that the Bateses were entitled to the benefit of the payment, which he admitted to have been made; and if they could not be so entitled, otherwise than as proprietors of the entire agreement of 1784, there would certainly be considerable force in the argument advanced by the counsel of the complainants. But, according to the statements contained in the Bateses answers, we apprehend, that as the assignees of Morrison's third, they were entitled to the exclusive benefit of the payment which they state that Todd admitted had been made. That payment is said to have been made by James Morrison, and from the statements in the answers, must be presumed to have been applied by him and Todd to the satisfaction of that much of Isaac Morrison's covenant, after Cox had assigned to him one-third of the original agreement of 1784. Knowing, therefore, that Morrison, the assignee of one-third of the original agreement, had paid all that had ever been received by him under the agreement, and perceiving that the Bateses were the assignees of Morrison's third, Todd, in the honest effusions of his heart, when applied to for that purpose, may have proposed to the Bateses, as they have stated in their answer, "that he would give to them 700 acres of land, the quantity of acres which he acknowledged to have been paid for by their assignor, James Morrison," at the same time knowing that the Bateses asserted no claim to the other two thirds, but correctly presuming that the other assignees of separate and distinct interests, could not be entitled to any benefit of the consideration advanced by James Morrison, after the assignment to him. *6 And that it was the interest of James Morrison, and not the entire agreement of 1784, that was understood by both Todd and the Bateses, to be compromised and satisfied by the agreement of 1807, is the more probable, from the fact, that by the assignment of the Bateses on the original agreement, the interest of James Morrison, and that only, is transferred to them; and derives additional confirmation from the circumstance of "certain accounts due said Bateses, assignees of the heirs of James Morrison," having been mentioned in the agreement of 1807, as the consideration; and is still further corroborated by the receipt which was given by the Bateses to Todd, at the same time, acknowledging the receipt of an account of merchandise for L 59 16si 11Id, (which had been drawn up in favor of James Morrison against Todd), in a bond for lands, as part of the consideration paid by James Morrison for a contract of 6,000 acres of land. If, instead of one-third which had been assigned by Cox to James Morrison, the Bateses had assumed to be the proprietors of the entire agreement, why, when by the assignment on the original agreement, but the interest of James Morrison appeared to be transferred to them, did Todd require a receipt for the account for merchandise, and not demand an absolute release or acquittance from the entire agreement? And, instead of mentioning in the agreement of that date, "certain accounts due said Bateses, assignees of the heirs of Morrison," as the consideration, why not state the consideration to be the entire agreement of 1784? But it was contended in argument, that possession is, of itself, evidence of right; and as the agreement of 1784 was held by the Bateses when the agreement of 1807 was made, and was then delivered to Todd, the presumption is in favor of the original agreement having been entirely satisfied by the subsequent one. If, however, such a presumption might, in ordinary cases, be indulged, the circumstances to which we have already adverted, would counteract its influence in this case. Besides, the Bateses were not the holders of the agreement for the exclusive benefit of others; they had purchased one-third of the agreement, and under that purchase had obtained the possession; and after having received satisfaction for that interest, they may have honestly supposed it correct to deliver up the possession of the agreement to Todd. But it was finally contended in argument, that the charge contained in the complainant's bill is fully supported by the depositions contained in the record. The record contains but two depositions; one, that of Joseph H. Hawkins, and the other the deposition of Doctor Witherspoon. Hawkins appears to have been the counsel of Todd in the suit brought by the Bateses on the agreement of 1807, and was present at the compromise of that suit, and at the giving of the obligations upon which the judgments at law have been obtained. He states, "that he has no doubt on his mind, that it was understood between the parties, at the time of the compromise, that the whole claim against R. Todd was then fully and finally settled. He is the more strengthened in the belief, by the recollection of his having recommended to said Todd to compromise the claim, on the ground that the claim was of long standing, that Todd was getting old and infirm," &c. "The deponent feels well assured, that he should not have recommended a compromise with the said Bateses, had he not, at that time, believed that the whole claim against Todd was thereby fully and finally settled. He is the more confirmed in his belief that both parties viewed the whole claim against Todd finally adjusted, from the fact of the priginal agreement having been delivered up to Todd." *7 That Mr. Hawkins is of the firm and honest belief that the entire agreement of 1784 has been compromised and adjusted by the subsequent agreements between Todd and the Bateses, is evident from his deposition; but that belief appears, from the language employed in his deposition, to be more the result of argument and inference, than from an positive recollection of any thing which he represents to have fallen from the Bateses. He was the counsel of Todd, the claim was of long standing, and he is confident that he would not have advised a compromise, if he had not understood the whole claim was to be adjusted. But it should be recollected, that it was the suit upon the agreement of 1807, and not that of 1784, that the witness was employed by Todd to defend; and may he not, after the lapse of several years, in calling up his recollections of a fact which transpired in the course of his professional avocations, have confounded the claim then asserted by the Bateses against his client, with a previous agreement out of which that claim grew, and to adjust and compromise which, the agreement upon which that claim was founded, was entered into? It is not denied by the Bateses, but that the whole of the claim then asserted under the agreement of 1807, was compromised by the agreement spoken of by the witness; but how, in the adjustment of that claim, can it have become necessary, or even pertinent, for the parties to travel back into the original agreement, and compromise a claim which was not then even asserted by the Bateses? With respect to the deposition of Witherspoon, it is proper to premise, that it consists entirely of a statement of what the witness alleges he heard one of the Bateses say in relation to the transactions with Morrison and Todd, several years after the agreement of 1807 was entered into by Todd. We are informed by his deposition, that Bates acknowledged that he had purchased the original agreement of 1784, from one of the heirs of James Morrison, and that when he applied to Todd for the land, Todd denied having received but a small part of the consideration; and that it was finally agreed between him and Todd, that Todd should give 700 acres of land, as described in the agreement of 1807, and that he would deliver up the original agreement of 1784, to be cancelled. The acknowledgment of Bates, thus detailed by the witness, is, no doubt, competent evidence; but evidence of that sort is at all times of a very unsatisfactory nature, and deserves the most rigid scrutiny of the court. From the frailty of human memory, it is not to be supposed, that the precise expressions of the person making the acknowledgment can be recollected by the witness; and if they could be recollected, when spoken in a casual conversation, they might frequently tend more to mislead than develop the true nature of the transaction to which they relate. When there is no motive to detail the whole of a transaction, it is not unusual, when the subject incidentally occurs, for the speaker to omit many circumstances, which, if mentioned, might produce a quite different impression on the hearer. The witness, Witherspoon, may have inferred from the general language employed by Bates, that the entire agreement of 1784 had been purchased by him from one of the heirs of James Morrison, and that by the subsequent agreement of 1807 the entire interest so purchased was adjusted and compromised; whereas, from the assignment which was made by the heir of Morrison, it is evident but one-third of that agreement was purchased by Bates; and from the agreement of 1807, and the receipt then given by the Bateses, it is also pretty obvious that it was the interest of Morrison only, which was then compromised. *8 Upon the whole, we think that the complainants in the court below have not shown themselves entitled to any relief against the contracts made by Todd with the Bateses; but as, at the time of making the contract with Todd, the Bateses were possessed of the equity of James Morrison, deceased, by whom the entire amount received by Todd under the agreement of 1784, had been paid, neither the heirs and representatives of Cox, nor those of Isaac Morrison, can have any just cause to assert their claim under the agreement of 1784, against the complainants. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered in conformity with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Bates v. Todd's Heirs 4 Litt. 177, 14 Ky. 177, 1823 WL 1250 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
