(Cite as: 5 Litt. 178,  15 Ky. 178 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1403 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Liggett's Heirs, &c. v. Ashley. May 26, 1824. *1 FROM THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. WILLIAM L. KELLY SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Principal and Agent 308 k 175(1) 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(D) Ratification 308k175 Operation and Effect 308k175(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Where a compromise is made by a person not regularly empowered to adjust the dispute, and is ratified by his principal, the objection of the want of authority will not release the other party from his contract in a court of equity. Compromise and Settlement 89 k 19(1) 89 Compromise and Settlement 89I In General 89k19 Impeachment or Setting Aside 89k19(1) k. Impeachment for fraud, mistake, or undue  advantage only. Most Cited Cases A mistake, as regards a quantity of land alleged to have been lost, made by parties on settlement, may be relieved against, but not to the entire destruction of the contract, when it cannot be presumed to have produced any other effect than that of fixing the amount agreed to be paid for such loss. HARDIN and CRITTENDEN for appellants; BIBB for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Liggett and Ashley exchanged one hundred acres of land. Liggett assigned to Ashley a bond which he held on Searcy, for the title to the land given by him in exchange. Ashley gave his bond to Liggett, for a conveyance, stipulating, in case of loss, to reimburse the money paid him, with lawful interest, or to make a right to one-half of the hundred acres whereon William Hill formerly lived; the price for said fifty acres to be thirty-seven pounds ten shillings. The compromise of a friend or agent, though not strictly legal, if ratified and confirmed by the principal, will be carried into effect. Liggett died, and the whole of the land received by him from Ashley, was lost, except forty-five and three-fourths acres. After Liggett's death, Robert Newland, acting as the friend and agent of his widow and children, obtained Ashley's bond, and adjusted with him the demand for the lost land, received from Ashley a bond for two hundred and eighty dollars, and gave him a receipt against any future claim upon his bond to Liggett. This bond for two hundred and eighty dollars was afterwards assigned by Newland to Esther Liggett, who assigned it to Robinson, who brought suit thereon to recover judgment at law. A mistake of both parties, as regarded a quantity of land alleged to have been lost, relieved against. This suit was then brought in equity, by Ashley, against Robinson, the heirs of Newland (he having departed this life), the heirs of Liggett, and his widow, and Boyd, to whom she had married since Liggett's death. The bill of Ashley charges, that the settlement was made with Newland, and the bond for the money executed to him by Ashley, under the conviction that the whole of the land given by Ashley in exchange had been lost, except twenty-two and a half acres, and that Newland possessed competent authority to adjust and finally settle the claim for the lost land; but he (Ashley) has since discovered that there remained of the tract forty-five acres and three-fourths not lost, and that he is informed that Newland had no authority to conclude a settlement for the heirs of Liggett. The bill asked and obtained an injunction against the judgment at law, and prayed for such relief as might be equitable, &c. *2 The court below decreed the contract between Ashley and Newland to be cancelled, the original bond given by Ashley to Liggett to be delivered up to the heirs of Liggett, and made the injunction perpetual against the judgment recovered by Robinson. It does not appear, from any thing contained in the record, that Newland was regularly empowered to adjust the demand on Ashley, when the agreement was concluded between them. He appears, however, to have acted as the friend of the widow and children of Liggett, and they have since ratified and confirmed his acts, and now insist upon a fulfilment of the contract. The objection of Ashley to the authority of Newland, ought not, therefore, to release him from his contract in a court of equity. He obtains by the contract, as complete a discharge from the demand for the lost land, as if the authority of Newland had been originally strictly legal, and in equity and good conscience ought to perform his undertaking, unless the contract be liable to some other objection than that which is taken to the power of Newland. With respect to the alleged mistake as to the quantity of acres lost, there is no room for any controversy. The proof is conclusive, that when the contract between Ashley and Newland was concluded, both parties labored under the belief that but twenty-two and a half acres of the land was saved, when in fact there were forty five acres and three-fourths not lost. But the mistake can not, with any propriety, be ascribed to the fault of either party. When about to enter upon the settlement, neither party appears to have known the precise quantity of safe land, and it is proved to have been ascertained to be but twenty-two and a half acres, by the calculation of the mutual friend of each party, to whom application was made for that purpose, and against whom there is no evidence of fraud or improper conduct. A mistake which was thus common to both parties, and which was caused by the fault of neither, ought, most indisputably, to be relieved against in a court of equity. The relief should not, however, in the opinion of the court, go to the extent it was carried by the decree of the court below. It should not go to the entire destruction of the contract. The mistake consisted only in the quantity of acres lost, and can not be presumed to have produced any influence over the parties, other than in fixing the amount agreed to be paid by Ashley. A reduction of that amount would, therefore, relieve Ashley from the effect of the mistake, and such is the only relief to which in justice he is entitled. Instead of the decree which the court below gave, therefore, a decree ought to have been pronounced making the injunction perpetual, for the value of twenty-three and one-fourth acres of land, estimating the value at the price per acre which the sum agreed to be given by Ashley will produce per acre, on the quantity of acres supposed by the parties at the making of the contract. The decree must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered, not not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1824. Liggett's Heirs v. Ashley 5 Litt. 178, 15 Ky. 178, 1824 WL 1403 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
