(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 342,  9 Ky. 342 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1043 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. James Dinwiddie v. Lewis Marshall. Jun. 6, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF EIROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE HENRY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 238 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(B) Parties 228k236 Judgment Against One or More Coparties 228k238 k. Actions on Contract. Most Cited  Cases In a joint action against two, one pleaded to the action, the other made default, a writ of inquiry was awarded, and the issue found against the one who pleaded.  Held that a judgment against the latter, leaving the writ of inquiry undisposed of, was erroneous. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of assumpsit brought by Marshall against Dinwiddie and Roberts. A joint action on a joint undertaking by two, one pleads to the action, the other makes default and a writ of enquiry is awarded--it is proper if the issue is found against the deft. who pleads to render judgment against both: but irregular to enter judgment on the verdict and leave the writ of enquiry undisposed of. The writ was served upon both of the defendants, and Roberts failing to plead; judgment by default, and writ of enquiry was awarded against him, Dinwiddie pleaded non assumpsit, and issue being joined thereon, a jury was called to try the issue, and after hearing the evidence returned a verdict of $223 97 in damages. Judgment was thereupon rendered against Dinwiddie, and the cause continued as to Roberts. Upon ascertaining the plea of Dinwiddie not true it was incumbent on the jury, to assess the damages which Marshall sustained by the breach of promise alleged in the declaration; and having done so by their verdict, the judgment might have been entered against Dinwiddie and Roberts jointly; but according to well settled principles, as the action is joint, upon a joint assumpsit, it was irregular to render a separate judgment against Dinwiddie, and continue the cause as to Roberts. The judgment must, therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Haggin for plaintiff, Talbot for defendant. Ky.App. 1820. Dinwiddie v. Marshall 2 A.K.Marsh. 342, 9 Ky. 342, 1820 WL 1043 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
