(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 480,  20 Ky. 480 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1463 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. McGrath v. Herndon. Apr. 26, 1827. *1 Apprentice. Covenant. Pleading. New Trial. ERROR TO THE SHELBY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 1003(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(I) Questions of Fact, Verdicts, and Findings 30XVI(I)2 Verdicts 30k1003 Against Weight of  Evidence 30k1003(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 30k1003) If, admitting the evidence to be true, it conduces in no degree to prove the plea, and the jury find for the defendant, there must be a new trial. Labor and Employment 231H k 925 231H Labor and Employment 231HX Apprentices 231Hk925 k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 255k9.1  Master and Servant, 32k19  Apprentices) If an apprentice leaves his master because of cruel and inhuman treatment, the master cannot recover on the covenant for his faithful service. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. On the 15th of January, 1818, an indenture was entered into between Herndon and McGrath, wherein it is witnessed, that the said Herndon, on that day, put and placed his son, Gideon Herndon, to and with the said McGrath, a tailor, as an apprentice, and with him, the said McGrath, faithfully and honestly to serve as an apprentice in all lawful commands, from the 16th instant, for and during the term of four years and three months; and the said McGrath agrees, on his part, to furnish the said Gideon with good and sufficient meat, drink, washing, lodging and clothing, befitting an apprentice, for and during the said term of four years and three months, and to learn him, the said Gideon, as far as him, the said Gideon, shall be capable of instruction, the art and mystery necessary to be known and understood by a tailor, &c. Indentures of apprenticeship by Herndon of his son, Gideon, to M'Grath, a tailor. Upon this indenture, McGrath brought an action of covenant against Herndon; and in his declaration, after setting out the covenants on the part of Herndon, alleges for breach, that the said Gideon did not, nor would he, faithfully serve the said McGrath, four years and three months, from the 16th of January, 1818, according to the tenor and effect, true intent and meaning of the said indenture; but on the contrary, and in violation thereof, he, the said Gideon, during the said term of four years and three months, and a long time before the said term had elapsed, commencing on the 16th day of January, 1818, did unlawfully absent himself from the service of the said McGrath, to-wit: on the 23rd day of June, 1821, and hath from thence, hitherto remained, and continued absent from the service of the said McGrath, contrary to the tenor and effect of the said indenture, &c. Declaration by M'Grath against Herndon, on the indenture, alleging for breach the departure of the son from his service. *2 Herndon pleaded, that his son Gideon did, on the 16th day of January, 1818, commence working with the plaintiff, McGrath, under and in pursuance of the writing declared on, and did continue to live with the plaintiff as an apprentice, until about the 1st day of July, 1821, when the plaintiff, by his wrongful and cruel treatment, to-wit: by whipping and cowhiding the said Gideon, did force and drive him from the service of the said plaintiff, &c. Plea by Herndon, that his son was forced to abandon the service of M'Grath because of his ill treatment. This plea was traversed by McGrath, and issue tendered by him to the country, which was joined by Herndon. The issue was tried by a jury, and verdict found for Herndon. A motion was then made for a new trial; but it was overruled; and judgment rendered in bar of McGrath's action. Verdict for defendant; motion for new trial, overruled, and judgment. To reverse that judgment, this writ of error is prosecuted. Two errors are assigned: 1st, that the plea of Herndon is insufficient in law to bar the action, and that the issue thereon is immaterial; 2nd, that the court erred in not awarding the new trial. Assignment of error. The plea, we think, a good one. To enable Gideon Herndon to perform the service which, as an apprentice, his father covenanted that he should perform, required the continued co-operation of McGrath. The service was to be performed in the course of McGrath's business as tailor, and his direction and instruction was indispensably necessary, to enable Gideon to discharge his duty as an apprentice. It was, in fact, utterly impracticable for Gideon, in opposition to the will, and against the commands of McGrath to continue in his service; and if, as is alleged in the plea, Gideon was driven from the service of McGrath by his cruel and inhuman treatment, the non-performance of the service must have resulted from the fault of McGrath; and of course he can have no just cause of action upon the indenture against Herndon, the father. The plea must, therefore, be admitted to contain sufficient matter in bar of the action, and the issue made up thereon is, consequently, not immaterial. In covenant against the father on the indentures of apprenticeship of his son to a tradesman, for his son's departure, plea, that the plaintiff had, by wrongful and cruel treatment, driven the son from his service, is sufficient. But in not awarding a new trial, we are of opinion, the court erred. The application for a new trial was made upon the ground of the verdict being against evidence and law, and whilst we admit it to be the province of the jury to decide upon questions of fact, and that after so deciding upon doubtful evidence, it would be improper for the court to overturn their verdict, because, in its opinion, the jury erred upon the facts, we have no hesitation in saying, that in the present case, a new trial should have been awarded. The evidence upon which the jury found their verdict, is not of a doubtful character; there was not a contrariety of testimony in relation to any point material to the issue; conceding to be true every fact which the evidence conduced to prove, there is no pretext for saying that the apprentice Gideon was driven from the service of McGrath. *3 If the evidence, all admitted to be true, conduces in no degree to prove the plea, and the jury find for defendant, there must be a new trial. The verdict is most clearly against evidence, and has no law for its support, and should have been set aside. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and the verdict set aside, and a new trial awarded, and such other and further proceedings there had, as may be consistent with this opinion. Mayes, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. McGrath v. Herndon 4 T.B.Mon. 480, 20 Ky. 480, 1827 WL 1463 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
