(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 340,  10 Ky. 340 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1086 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Chiles et al. v. Stephens. Apr. 16, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 9(3) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k9 Prior Possession of Plaintiff 179k9(3) k. Sufficiency of Actual Possession in General. Most  Cited Cases A possession gained by disseisin will not prevent the disseisor from maintaining a warrant of forcible entry against another, having a right of entry, but who enters without his assent. Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 34 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k31 Trial 179k34 k. Questions for Jury. Most Cited  Cases Whether the entry of a landlord into a part of the leased premises, but not in contest in the warrant, and not abandoned by the tenant, is an entry into the whole, must depend upon the intention with which the entry was made, and must be left to the jury. Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 34 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k31 Trial 179k34 k. Questions for Jury. Most Cited  Cases The plaintiff may have had possession in fact, when he was not in fact upon the land;  and whether he had such possession is a question for the jury. Principal and Agent 308 k 97 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(A) Powers of Agent 308k95 Express Authority 308k97 k. Construction of Letters or Powers of Attorney.  Most Cited Cases A general power authorizing an agent to finish all the principal's unsettled business gives him authority to take possession of lands, to which the principal has claim, in the name of his principal. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment rendered against Chiles and Pebles, in a traverse taken by them to an inquest had under the act regulating writs of forcible entries and detainers. Stephens was plaintiff in the warrant which issued for a forcible entry and detainer, and the inquest found Chiles and Pebles guilty; and the court, after a finding by the jury in favor of Stephens, rendered judgment of restitution. The questions made in the circuit court, and presented for revision in this court, are contained in bills of exceptions taken to the opinion of the circuit judge. It appears that in February, 1818, Stephens being in possession of a tract of land in the county of Montgomery, and claiming the same under an obligation which he held on Calk, sold to a certain Gatewood that part of the land contained within the lines which had been decreed to Calk and gave his obligation to convey the same by general warranty deed to Gatewood; and at the same time contracted to sell to Gatewood the residue of the land contained in the bond on Calk, but as it was involved in controversy, gave his obligation to convey the same, or such part thereof as might be ultimately saved, to Gatewood, and at the same time delivered possession of the whole tract to Gatewood, stipulating that he should hold the same rent free, until the validity of the title should be determined. After this in April, 1818, a certain Reed having obtained judgment in ejectment against Chiles and Pebles for the land caused to be sued out a writ of habere facias possessionem and in virtue thereof the sheriff to whom it was directed, expelled Gatewood from the land, and delivered the possession to Reed, who thereupon, under a contract previously made with Chiles and Pebles, delivered possession to them. Chiles and Pebles then leased the land to Gatewood, who entered into a written covenant to restore the possession to them on the 21st Dec. thereafter. But Gatewood appears not to have delivered the possession to Chiles and Stephens according to his covenant, and is proven to have continued to reside upon the place purchased by him of Stephens in February, 1819. About the first of February, 1819, Gatewood gave to Chiles a written notice that he would, on a named day, deliver him the possession of the land leased. Chiles appears, however, not to have attended on the day named in the notice, and Gatewood proves that he then abandoned the possession of that part of the land now in contest. It also appears, that subsequent to the expiration of the lease by Chiles and Pebles to Gatewood, and before the abandonment by him, they hauled rails and made some alteration in the fence on the land; but that they were never on the land after the abandonment of Gatewood, until after Farrow, under a written authority from Stephens, bearing date in September 1818, authorizing him to transact his (Stephens') unfinished business in Montgomery county, entered upon the land and laid the foundation of a cabin, and put up the fence enclosing about ten acres of land, and burnt a plantbed. It appears that Farrow lived about a mile from the land, and after laying the foundation of the house, went home, and, after two or three days, returned and repaired the fence and burnt the plant bed, declaring at the same time that he entered holding the possession for Stephens, who was proven not to live in the state. It was also proven, that Gatewood was advised by Farrow how to proceed in order to abandon the possession. After Farrow had entered upon the land in the manner described, Chiles and Pebles, in the absence of Farrow, and whilst no person was on the land, entered, removed the foundation of the cabin laid by Farrow, and made alterations in the fence. It also appears that after the abandonment by Gatewood, Chiles and Pebles attempted to enter upon the land which Gatewood retained the possession of, but Gatewood violently and forcibly prevented them. This was, in substance, all the evidence admitted to go to the jury. An offset was made by Chiles and Pebles to introduce as evidence the record and proceedings in the ejectment brought by Reed against them, and under which the possession was taken from Gatewood, and the decree in a suit between Stephens and Pebles, in relation to the same land; but the court would not permit any part of the record to be read, except the habere facias under which the possession was delivered. *2 After the evidence was gone through, the counsel of Chiles and Pebles moved the court to instruct the jury-- 1st. That if they should believe from the evidence that Gatewood surrendered the possession to Chiles agreeably to his notice, that Chiles and Pebles became thereby presently and immediately possessed of the premises and that the entry of Farrow for Stephens was illegal and insufficient to maintain his warrant of forcible entry and detainer. 2. That Gatewood, as tenant, could not abandoned the premises and leave them vacant; and that if the jury believed he did abandon that part now in contest, the possession enured and presently passed to the lessors Chiles and Pebles, and that said Stephens could not enter adversely upon their actual possession without their consent. 3. That Gatewood could not surrender part of the premises and retain the possession of the residue; and if the jury should believe that Gatewood retained the possession of any part, no part was vacant, so that Stephens could enter adversely or possess himself lawfully. 4. That the power of attorney from Stephens conferred no authority to Farrow to enter, and that the entry of Farrow for Stephens gave Stephens no right to maintain a writ of forcible entry in his name. 5. That if the jury should find that Stephens, by his agent, Farrow, was not on the land when Chiles and Pebles made the entry complained of, they ought to find against Stephens. 6. That the entry of Farrow, as detailed by the evidence did not in point of fact vest the possession in Stephens. Other instructions were asked for, but as they are rather a recapitulation of what had been asked for, than containing any new point, we have not deemed it material further to notice them. The court refused to give the instructions asked for by Chiles and Stephens; and instructed the jury that if Farrow, the agent of Stephens, had left the premises with an intention of abandonment, before the entry made by Chiles and Pebles, complained of in the warrant, the law was for Pebles and Chiles; but upon the whole case, instructed the jury, if Gatewood had abandoned the possession of the land in contest, and that Farrow, as agent for Stephens, afterwards entered and became possessed thereof, and had not abandoned the possession before Chiles and Stephens entered, but was possessed when they entered, Chiles and Stephens were guilty of the forcible entry complained of and instructed the jury, that if Farrow, as agent, was actually possessed of the premises, it was immaterial in what way that possession was abandoned, and that Chiles and Stephens had no right to enter forcibly upon that tenant, or any other person, obtaining the possession by the assent of the tenant. The court also instructed the jury that if Chiles and Pebles entered on the part of the land which was in the possession of Gatewood, and not afterwards abandoned by him, the entry before the abandonment did not give them a possession in fact of the land in contest; and that if the agent of Stephens had abandoned the possession before the entry of Chiles and Pebles, they were not guilty. *3 Exceptions were taken, as well to the court's decision in excluding the record evidence, as in refusing and giving the instruction to the jury, and all the evidence spread upon the record. Under the instructions the jury found in favor of Stephens; and the counsel for Chiles and Pebles moved for a new trial on the grounds of the verdict being against law and evidence; but their motion was overruled and exceptions also taken to the court's refusal. This court perceives no solid objection to the decision of the court below in rejecting the record evidence. Those records contain nothing except that of the writ of habere facias and return, (which was permitted to be used in evidence) conducing in any manner to illustrate the fact of possession; and it has been repeatedly held that in a proceeding for a forcible entry, under the act of this country, the title of entry is not properly the subject of examination or enquiry. To entitle Stephens to restitution, it was incumbent on him, barely, to prove, that at the time Chiles and Pebles entered upon the land in contest, he was in fact possessed, and that their entry was without his assent or that of his agent. Upon these facts being proven, in the language of the act prescribing the remedy. Chiles and Pebles, whether they entered with or without title, must be declared guilty of a forcible entry, and compelled to restore the possession. At common law, a person having title of entry in lands possessed by another was allowed to regain the possession by entry, and although he might be punished for any breach of the peace committed in making the entry, after having gained the possession, there was no means by which the possession could be restored to the person from whom the rightful owner obtained it. At an early period, however, the parliament of England perceiving the mischief which arose to the community by permitting a person, having right, by his own act, forcibly to redress an injury to his possession, passed several statutes interdicting any person, having right, from forcibly entering upon the lands in the possession of others, and providing, in case of the force being found according to the directions of the statutes, for the restoration of the possession to the person from whom it was taken. In the adjudications of the English courts, upon those statutes, they have invariably repelled every attempt, by the person committing the force, to prevent a restoration of the possession by showing his title of entry. Whenever the force is found, restitution follows as a matter of course let the right of entry be as it may; and that is done, because the makers of the statutes is supposed to have designed to oblige all persons to refer themselves to the courts of justice for the decision of their claims to possession of land, and to restrain them from disturbing the public peace by such endeavors to right themselves. Haw. P. Cr. Ch. 64, s. 47. In New York, where the English statutes appear to have been pretty generally adopted, a similar course of decision exists. In 11 John R. it was held, that on an indictment for a forcible entry and detainer, the title to the premises does not come in question, but it is sufficient for the complainant to recover if he shows himself to have been in peaceable possession before the defendant's entry. *4 In warrants of forcible entry and detainer, the right of entry is not in issue; nothing but the actual possession can be tried, and it is immaterial how that possession was gained. In this country our statute is not precisely the same as those of England, but it is more favorable to the possessor, and declares that every entry, whether with or without force, if it be made without the assent or against the will of the person having the possession in fact, shall be deemed a forcible entry. We have, therefore, not referred to the English adjudications with a view to show what description of cases comes within the provisions of the act of this country, but for the purpose of showing that in excluding an enquiry into the title in cases of forcible entries the decisions of this court are not unsupported by precedent.--Nor can it be material how the possession, on which the entry is made, was obtained. If it be a possession in fact by whatever means acquired, it is protected by the act, and those entering upon it are deemed guilty of a forcible entry. The act has made no distinction between rightful and wrongful possession; and it is plain from the circumstance of its having interdicted entries by those having right, it was not intended by the law makers to permit any description of persons to redress themselves by entry against the assent of the person possessed. The landlord can, no more than any other person, after the expiration of the lease, enter against the will of the tenant. If the tenant refuses to restore the possession, the act has furnished a remedy to the landlord; but in pursuing that remedy, he is not to be his own judge, but must refer his case to the tribunals of justice for decision. The landlord may have a title of entry, but his having such title gives him no right to enter upon the possession in fact of another against the will of the possessor; and there is nothing in the act which places his claim to redress himself by his own act on different footing from any other person having the right of entry; and if he should enter, must be subject to the same consequences of others making forcible entries. After having entered, therefore, he cannot protect his possssion by showing that he was landlord, for that would be permitting an inquiry into his title of entry, and such an inquiry, we have seen, is inadmissible. If the tenant holds over, the landlord can not enter against the will of the tenant, but must resort to his warrant. To the preceding part of this opinion Judge Mills dissents. If, then, we are correct in the preceding remarks, it results, that the records were not only properly rejected, but that the circuit must also have been correct in many of its decisions on the motion to instruct. It was certainly correct in refusing the first instruction asked; for that seems to have been predicated upon the supposition that, if Farrow, the agent, obtained the possession illegally for Stephens, a writ of forcible entry cannot be maintained for a subsequent entry whilst in his possession. *5 And it is equally clear that the decision was correct on the second instruction asked; for that seems to be predicated upon the idea, that a possession gained by disseisen is not such a possession as will authorize the possessor to maintain a writ of forcible entry against those thereafter entering without his assent. A possession gained by disseizin, will not prevent the disseizor from maintaining his warrant against another having a right of entry, but who enters on his possession without his assent. The decision on the third instruction asked for is also correct; for that, although differently expressed, is predicated upon the same mistaken idea of the second. The fourth instruction asked for presents the question, as to the authority of Farrow to enter for Stephens. The power of attorney is certainly not as explicit as might be desired; but it confers upon Farrow general authority to transact Stephens' unfinished business. Stephens appears to have contracted for the sale of the land to Gatewood, some months before the date of the power, and gave his obligation to convey on the contingency of his succeeding in sustaining his title to the land. After this contract, and before the date of the power, Gatewood appears to have been dispossessed by Chiles and Pebles. Under these circumstances, it is most probable that it was designed, by Stephens by empowering Farrow to transact his unfinished business, to authorize him to adopt any means, and take any steps he might deem advisable to regain the possession and investigate the title to the land in contest. Under this construction, therefore, if, in point of fact, Farrow, as agent for Stephens, entered upon and took the possession. that possession must be considered the possession of Stephens, and as such sufficient to authorize the proceedings in his name. A general power authorizing the agent "to finish all the principal unsettled business," authorizes the agent to take possession of lands, to which the principal has claim, in the name of the principal. The fifth instruction was asked for, on the supposition, that to enable Stephens to maintain his writ, it was indispensably necessary that either himself or Farrow his agent should have been upon the land when Chiles and Pebles entered. The fallacy of this idea will at once be perceived by adverting to the decision of this court in the case of  Brumfield vs. Reynolds, 4 Bibb, 388. In that case it was decided that there may be a possession in fact by a person not in fact on the land. There may be a possession in fact by a person not in fact upon the land. The sixth instruction was asked for upon the supposition of the evidence not proving Stephens to have been in fact possessed. Whether, however, he was so possessed, was a question of fact for the jury to decide, and which the court properly left for their determination. Whether the plaintiff in the warrant was in fact possessed, is a question which should be left to the jury. *6 We think, however, the court erred in one of its instructions to the jury. The instruction to which we allude is that where the court informed the jury, "that if Chiles and Pebles entered on that part of the land which was in the possession of Gatewood, and not abandoned by him, the entry before the abandonment did not give them possession in fact of the land in contest." Whether the entry of a landlord into a part of the leased premises, but not in contest in the warrant and not abandoned by the tenant, is an entry into a part which was abandoned and is an entry into the whole, must depend on the intention with which the entry was made, and must be left to the jury. Whether, or not, their entry gave them possession of the land in contest, turns upon the intent with which it was made. Having leased the whole of the land to Gatewood, it is clear Gatewood could not, thereafter, by abandoning part, preclude Chiles and Pebles from regaining the possession of the whole. But in order to do so, by entry, the entry must be made with an intention of taking possession of the whole and not a part only. Instead, therefore, of the instruction which the court gave, it should have been hypothecated on the intention with which Chiles and Pebles entered; and as the intention is properly a question of fact, the fact of intention should have been left for the determination of the jury on the evidence. Because, therefore, the court erred in its instructions, the judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Bibb and Hardin for plaintiff, Pope for defendant in error. On rendering this opinion, Judge Mills delivered the following dissent: The principal question involved in this case, and on which the instructions of the court below rest, as a keystone, is, can the defendant in a writ of forcible entry and detainer be allowed to show that the possession which the plaintiff demands by it, was tortious or fraudulent, while the plaintiff held it? To sustain the remedy, the plaintiff must show that he had the possession in fact at the date of the defendant's entry complained of, ought the defendant then to be permitted to show that that possession in fact is fraudulent and wrongful or that the plaintiff himself was the fit subject of a forcible entry and detainer in acquiring that possession. It is readily admitted that title cannot be enquired into; but it is equally true that the title, the right of possesion, and the bare possession, may each be separated from the other, and each may exist in separate hands. The possession itself, and indeed the right of possession, may be enquired into, without involving the mere right. And it is conceived there will be no difficulty in drawing the boundary line between them. Is it then a naked possession. without the right of possession, and even against the right of possession, which the legislature meant by the act in question to restore? I conceive not. I would resort to every plausible construction before I would say that they meant not only to protect, but to redress wrong against right. In all suits, both at common law and in chancery, it is an universal principle in our code that a plaintiff must come with clean hands. Fraud once shown either in law or equity, vitiates every transaction, and the remedy is always refused to the guilty. Has the legislature then made this solitary exception, and shut the eyes of our courts against fraud, stealth and force, in this remedy? Have they placed an estoppel against the proof of it, and declared that he who has been guilty shall have both his force and fraud sanctified by judicial decision, restoring him to that which he ought never to have had? It is evident that the entry made under a writ of habere facias possessionem, or habere facias seisinam, may be, and almost always is, "without the assent and against the will" of him who at the time has the "possession in fact." Can it be pretended that he can support this writ? If he can the legislature has by one act swept all remedy by ejectment, writ of right, or suit in equity from existence. If he cannot, then it proves that the words "any entry with or without multitude of people, &c" does not mean any entry against the will of the possessor in fact, and that a reasonable construction is to be applied to the words, calculated to protect rightful possession from violence and fraud. It may be said that the case put, of entry with process of law, is an entry by the authority of law. Be it so. It alters not the force of the argument. The law may make the entry; but still an individual enters "either with or without multitude of people, against the will, and without the assent of him, who, at the time holds possession in fact, and must be literally included within the expressions, "any entry" against the possessor's will. These considerations with others which might be adduced, have induced me to conclude, that the reasonable construction of the act is, that the defendant ought to be permitted to show the force and fraud of the plaintiff in acquiring the possession demanded, without bringing the strength of title against title; and that the decision of the circuit court is erroneous in excluding the force or fraud of the plaintiff, which the evidence conduced to establish, from the jury, by telling them expressly that it was immaterial whether the plaintiff acquired the possession, which he had lost, and which he demanded in the warrant, "either by force or fraud," and that notwithstanding then if he had it at the entry of the defendant, he was entitled to its restoration. *7 I do not conceive that the English adjudications on their statutes can have any bearing on the construction of our statute. They afford a remedy of a criminal character, and are prosecuted by indictment. Ours is a remedy purely civil. But when they are resorted to they furnish nothing that militates against the construction of ours. If the prosecutor showed a right to the possession, he was restored. If he failed to do this the defendant was punished by fine, and restitution was denied, as will be seen by consulting Hawkins' Pleas of the crown, tit. Force, Ent. and Det.and Chitty's Criminal code, same title. Thus so much of the remedy as afforded civil redress was refused in favor of a wrongful claimant. In like manner I conceive it ought to be refused under our statute.--If such a plaintiff can sustain his writ, I see no reason why the defendant may not turn round and bring a similar one against him, and thus present the phenomenon of writ against writ, and judgment against judgment, and our courts be at one hour restoring to possession a person, which at another, they had ousted by the same remedy? If these are to be the consequences resulting from the statute, it is certainly a fit subject of legislative amendment. They are consideration which induce this dissent from the opinion just rendered, so far as gives construction to the act in question. Ky.App. 1821. Chiles v. Stephens 3 A.K.Marsh. 340, 10 Ky. 340, 1821 WL 1086 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
