(Cite as: 4 Bibb 513,  7 Ky. 513 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1752 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Curtis, etc. v. Forman. Apr. 21, 1817. *1 A person enters on land under an agreement to lease the same for a term of years, but before a written lease is given, the lessor discovers that the land is covered by a superior claim, and tells the lessee that he must make the best terms he can with the other claimant; the possession of the lessee, after the abandonment of the lessor, extends no further than his actual occupancy. A possession to bar an entry must be an actual adverse possession. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 14 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(B) Actual Possession 20k14 k. Necessity. Most Cited Cases There cannot be adverse possession without an actual possession of the locus in quo. Adverse Possession 20 k 100(1) 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k99 Possession Under Color of Title 20k100 Constructive Possession in  General 20k100(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A person entered land under an agreement to lease the same for a term of years, but, before the lease was written, the lessor discovered that the land was occupied under a superior claim. The lessor told the lessee that he should make the best terms he could with such claimant.  Held, that the possession of the lessee, after such abandonment by the lessor, extended only to the land in actual possession. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an appeal from a judgment of the Court below rendered in an action of ejectment brought by the appellee. On the trial in that Court the appellants proved that those under whom they claim took possession of and actually settled upon the land in contest upward of 20 years before the commencement of the suit, under an agreement to release the same for three lives, from Thomas Marshall, the regular attorney in fact of his father Thomas Marshall; but that before any written lease was given, Marshall having discovered that a claim of Kenton covered the land, abandoned his claim and informed the tenant that he must make the best terms he could with Kenton; whereupon, on the motion of the appellee's counsel, the Court instructed the jury that the possession of Rankin, who took possession under the agreement with Marshall, from the time Marshall abandoned his claim, must be considered as extending no farther than his actual occupancy; and that the appellee's right to recover could not in consequence of that possession be barred, except for so much as was in actual occupation. Whether, therefore the Court erred in their instructions, as they embrace the only point made in argument, demands exclusively the consideration of this Court. That to maintain an ejectment, the plaintiff must show in himself a legal right of entry to the land, is a proposition too familiar to all to need any illustration from the Court. Whatever, therefore, conduces to disprove the existence of such a right, may be properly relied on in the defense of such an action; and hence, as by the statute concerning the limitations of actions, all entries on land are inhibited after the lapse of twenty years from the accrual of the right, it has been uniformly held, both in this country and that from whose statute ours was taken, that where no disability intervenes, the action cannot be maintained against an adverse possession of 20 years. The possession must, however, be an actual, and not a constructive one: for as no action can be maintained to recover any other kind of possession, it would be preposterous to suppose any other could defeat a right of entry. *2 To what extent a person residing upon land ought to be considered as actually possessed, must no doubt depend very much upon the circumstances of each particular case, but need not, as we apprehend, be decided in this instance: for, as actual possession cannot extend beyond what may be actually occupied, the Court cannot have erred in directing the jury the limits of the former were circumscribed by the boundaries of the latter. But it was contended in argument, that the instructions of the Court were intended to limit the inquiry of the jury to the actual inclosure of the tenant; and as he may have been actually possessed beyond the close, it is urged the instructions are erroneous. Judging from the record, we cannot however impute to the Court such an intention: for as they have used language of a broader import, their decision should not be reversed upon the hypothesis of their having intended to convey a different meaning. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1817. Curtis v. Forman 4 Bibb 513, 7 Ky. 513, 1817 WL 1752 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
