(Cite as: 3 Bibb 257,  6 Ky. 257 (Ky.),  1814 WL 745 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Buckner, for the use of True, v. Cotrell. Apr. 6, 1814. West Headnotes Slaves 356 k 8 356 Slaves 356k8 k. Hiring of Slaves. Most Cited Cases A plea that a bond was given for the hire of slaves, and that afterwards, in consideration of the bond, plaintiff permitted the slaves to go at large and hire themselves as free persons contrary to the statute, does not show an illegal consideration. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS action was brought by Buckner in the Court below to recover the amount of an obligation executed to him by Jacob Jones, a negro slave, and Thomas Cotrell his security. This suit was discontinued as to Jones; Cotrell pleaded "that Jones, the principal, was a negro slave, the property of Betsey Buckner, for whom the plaintiff was guardian, and that the whole consideration of the obligation was the hire of said Jones, his wife and children, and that he, Cotrell, was security only to Jones; and averred that in consideration of the hire or stipulated wages aforesaid to be paid, the plaintiff licensed said Jones, his wife and children, to go at large, and trade as free persons and hire out themselves, contrary to the statute in such cases provided," etc. The plaintiff objected to the plea, but his objections were overruled and the plea filed. The plaintiff then for replication alleged that he did not, in consideration of the stipulated hire to be paid by the said Jones and Cotrell, license said Jones, his wife and children, to go at large, and trade as free persons and hire themselves out, etc., and tendered an issue to the country, which was joined by the defendant Cotrell. A verdict was found on the issue in favor of the defendant, and judgment in bar awarded against the plaintiff; from which judgment he prosecuted this writ of error. A bond given upon a consideration that the obligee would permit his slaves to go at large and hire themselves out as free persons would be void. But a plea that the bond was given for the hire of the slaves, and that afterward, in consideration of the bond, the pl'ff permitted the slaves to go at large and hire themselves, etc., contrary to the statute, does not show an illegal consideration. The first question for determination in this case is as to the sufficiency of the defendants plea to bar the plaintiff's action? Did the plea contain an allegation in substance that the obligation was given in consideration, or as an inducement for the plaintiff's license or permission to the slaves going at large and trading as free persons and hiring themselves, it would be clear that the obligation would be against law and void. But the plea in question contains no such allegation; it avers, however, that the hire of the slave was the whole consideration of the obligation; and although it is averred the plaintiff, in consideration of the stipulated hire, licensed the slaves to go at large and trade and hire themselves, etc., that averment cannot avoid an obligation which from other allegations in the plea was given upon one entire valuable consideration. If the plaintiff, after receiving the obligation in consideration of the hire, licensed the slaves, in consequence thereof, to go at large and trade contrary to law, he has thereby subjected himself to the penalty of the law; but by so doing it cannot so retrospect as to make void an obligation previously given by the defendant upon a valuable consideration. We are of opinion, therefore, the plea is insufficient to bar the plaintiff's action, and that the issue joined thereon is immaterial. *2 The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and repleader awarded. Ky.App. 1814. Buckner v. Cotrell 3 Bibb 257, 6 Ky. 257, 1814 WL 745 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
