(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 43,  8 Ky. 43 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1138 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Oliver Brown v. James McCleland. Oct. 17, 1817. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Interest 219 k 68 219 Interest 219IV Recovery 219k68 k. Questions for Jury. Most Cited Cases On a covenant to pay $80 in brick work, interest is not chargeable as a matter of law, but the jury may, in their discretion, allow it. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an appeal from a judgment rendered in favor of the appellee, upon a covenant entered into by him, for the payment of eighty dollars in brick work. On the trial in the court below, the court instructed the jury that they ought to give interest, unless there were particular circumstances on the part of the appellant, justifying a departure from the general rule, and the only question material to be noticed by the court, involves the propriety of those instructions. On a covenant to pay $80 in brick work, interest is not chargeable as a matter of right. That the instructions ought not to have been given, is, in effect, decided in the case of  Guthrie and Cox against the Wickliffes, 4 Bibb, 541. On such covenant the jury may, in their discretion, give or refuse interest by the way of damages: but in the exercise of that discretion they should be wholly unshackled by any instruction of the court. By that case, covenants, such as that upon which this suit is founded, does not, as a matter of law, bear interest; and although the jury may give damages commensurate with the principal demand and interest, whether they will or will not do so, must depend upon the discretion of the jury, exercised without any control of the court. The court, in directing the jury, therefore, as matter of law, to find interest under the circumstances stated in their instructions, erred; and the judgment must, consequently, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Talbot for appellant, Adams for appellee. Ky.App. 1817. Brown v. McClellan 1 A.K.Marsh. 43, 8 Ky. 43, 1817 WL 1138 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
