(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 372,  19 Ky. 372 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1318 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Beall v. Squires and Sylliman. Oct. 23, 1826. *1 Assignor and Assignee. Trustee. Cestui Que Trust. Set-off in Equity. APPEAL FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT; JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 33(2) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k30 Causes of Action on Other and Distinct Contracts or Transactions 352k33 Set-Off 352k33(2) k. Equitable Set-Off. Most Cited  Cases Courts of equity do not act upon the subject of set-off in respect to distinct and unconnected debts, unless some other peculiar equity has intervened. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. James D. Breckenridge and Ruggles Whiting, having become endorsers for Johnston, to the Bank of the United States, for twelve thousand dollars, Johnston, on the 12th of November, 1818, executed to Breckenridge a deed of conveyance for a lot of ground, number nine, in the town of Louisville, in trust to secure and indemnify Breckenridge against his endorsements, and such other endorsements, acceptances and obligations as Breckenridge had previously came under, or might thereafter make, or come under for Johnston. Johnston's mortgage to Breckenridge for indemnity against endorsements. By a clause in this deed Breckenridge was empowered, in case the purposes of the trust should make it necessary, to sell any part or the whole of the lot, and convey the same to the purchaser. Breckenridge authorized by the mortgage to sell. Accordingly, on the 13th of September, 1819, in pursuance of the directions contained in the deed of trust, Breckenridge sold part of the lot to Samuel T. Beall, for the price of ten hundred and forty dollars, and received Beall's notes for the amount. On the same day Breckenridge and Johnston conveyed to Beall that part of the lot purchased by him, and Beall thereupon conveyed the same to William T. Gault in trust, to secure the payment of the notes, which he had given to Breckenridge for the purchase money. Part of the property sold by Breckenridge, and conveyed by him and Johnston to Beall and by Beall re-conveyed in trust to secure the purchase money. In pursuance of a clause contained in this deed of trust, the lot was afterwards exposed to public sale by Gault, and Breckenridge became the purchaser at the price of one hundred and fifty dollars, to whom Gault immediately made a conveyance by deed, bearing date the 29th of January, 1820. Sale and conveyance to Breckenridge under Beall's deed of trust, by the trustee. After this the Bank, Breckenridge, Johnston and Whiting came to an arrangement by which Breckenridge was released from his endorsement for Johnston to the bank. Breckenridge released from the endorsement for which the mortgage was made. During all this time the price which Beall was to give for the lot, and for which he had executed his notes to Breckenridge, remained unpaid; but suits were afterwards brought upon the notes and judgments at law recovered against Beall. *2 Judgments against Beall for the purchase money, in favor of Breckenridge. One of these judgments amounting to six hundred and thirteen dollars and eighty- eight and one-half cents, was assigned by Breckenridge to Southard and Starr, and by them assigned to Squires and Sylliman. Assignment of one of the judgments to appellees. To be relieved from these judgments, Beall exhibited his bill in equity with injunctions, and after setting forth the preceding facts, alleges that prior to the execution of the deed of trust by Johnston to Breckenridge, under which the sale was made by Breckenridge to him, Johnston had executed to him, Beall, six promisory notes, each for the sum of seven hundred dollars, payable successively at the end of one, two, three, four, five, and six years, and that each of these notes remain unpaid. The bill makes Breckenridge, Johnston, Squires and Sylliman defendants, and after charging that Johnston is willing to have so much of the debts owing by him to Beall, as may be necessary for that purpose applied to the satisfaction of the judgments recovered by Breckenridge, prays for a decree to be pronounced making such an application of the debts, &c. Beall's bill to be relieved from these judgments on the ground of set off against Johnson. Breckenridge answered, insisting that the debts which Beall has against Johnston, should not in a court of equity be applied to the satisfaction of the judgments which he has recovered at law. In addition to the facts already mentioned, he states, that Johnston is greatly indebted to him for money which he has advanced, as Johnston's surety and otherwise, and protests against the judgments against Beall being applied to the satisfaction of any debts owing by Johnston to others, until he is reimbursed the money he has been compelled to pay, &c. Breckenridge's answer alleging he had paid money as Johnson's security in other cases embraced by the mortgage. Squires and Sylliman profess to know nothing of the transaction between Beall, Johnston and Breckenridge, and put Beall upon the proof of the facts charged in his bill. Answer of Squires and Sylliman. Johnston denies that he is willing for the judgments recovered by Breckenridge to be applied in the manner desired by Beall. He states that he would have been willing to have such an application made of the judgments, if in relation to other matters Beall had done what he desired him to do, but which Beall failed and refused to do. Johnson's answer. The court below dismissed Beall's bill absolutely, as to Squires and Sylliman, and as to them dissolved the injunction, with damages and cost; but by the decree, the dismission was to be without any prejudice as to any claim which Beall may have against Breckenridge and Johnston. Decree of the circuit court. From that decree Beall appealed. The circumstance of the notes, upon which the judgments at law were recovered against Beall, having been given to Breckenridge, should not, we apprehend, protect the assignees of the judgment, against any equity, which Beall may have had against Johnston, before the judgment was assigned. Though executed to Breckenridge; the notes were given for the purchase of property, held by him in trust for Johnston, and after the purposes of the trust were satisfied, Johnston unquestionably became, in equity and good conscience, entitled to the beneficial interest in the notes. *3 Assignee of a judgment recovered by the trustee for the sale money, after the purposes of the trust have been accomplished without the fund, holds it subject to any equity the debtor may have against the grantor in trust, to whom the benefit of the judgment results. Breckenridge, it is true, alleges that in consequence of liabilities which he came under for Johnston, he has been compelled to pay large sums of money, for which Johnston is still indebted to him, and if so, as the deed of trust under which the sale was made to Beall, was executed by Johnston to secure and indemnify Breckenridge against all liabilities which he had or might come under, it would be palpably unjust, to compel either Breckenridge or his assignees to part with their judgments, until the debts owing by Johnston to Breckenridge are satisfied. But the allegations of Breckenridge in that respect, are not supported by the proof in the cause. The evidence, in our opinion, is insufficient to prove the existence of any debt from Johnston to Breckenridge, or any liability which the latter has come under for the former. Under these circumstances, therefore, the notes which were given by Beall for the purchase of the lot held by Breckenridge in trust for Johnston, must be treated as debts to which Johnston was beneficially entitled, so as to afford the same redress to Beall for any equity which he may have had before the assignment of the judgment, that might have been obtained, if the notes had been given to Johnston. Cestui que trust of the judgment is regarded as the real creditor. Bue reserving to Beall all the equity to which he could have been entitled if the notes had been executed, and the judgments recovered in the name of Johnston, still, we apprehend, that he has made out no good cause for relief in a court of equity. His case must then be considered in the light of an application to have set off against other demands bearing no relation and having no connection, contrary to what has been repeatedly held to be the rule in courts of equity, unless by extraneous matter the aid of the court is made necessary to the attainment of justice. Nothing of the sort is, however, made to appear in the present case. Set off in equity is not allowed where there is no connection between the demands and no extraneous circumstance making it necessary for the attainment of justice. The only circumstance even alleged by Beall in his bill, is that wherein he states a willingness on the part of Johnston to have the judgments satisfied by an application of an equal amount of the debts owing by him; but in his answer Johnston denies that he is willing for such an application to be made, and the record is entirely destitute of proof upon the subject. It was, therefore, proper to leave Beall to his remedy at law; and consequently the court below was correct in dissolving his injunction with damages and cost, and in dismissing his bill absolutely as to Squires and Sylliman. *4 The decree must, therefore, be affirmed, with cost, and damages upon the damages decreed by that court. Damages, &c. Bibb, for appellant; Denny, Attorney-General, for appellee. Ky.App. 1826. Beall v. Squires 3 T.B.Mon. 372, 19 Ky. 372, 1826 WL 1318 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
