(Cite as: 3 Bibb 39,  6 Ky. 39 (Ky.),  1813 WL 594 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Keen and West v. Macey. May 24, 1813. West Headnotes Remainders 333 k 12 333 Remainders 333k12 k. Remainders in Personal Property. Most Cited Cases A remainder in slaves may be created by bill of sale. Wills 409 k 622 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(E) Nature of Estates and Interests Created 409k622 k. Remainders. Most Cited Cases A remainder may be limited after a life estate in personal property. Deeds 120 k 132 120 Deeds 120III Construction and Operation 120III(C) Estates and Interests Created 120k131 Remainders 120k132 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A., by a bill of sale, conveyed certain slaves to W. for life, with remainder to the children of W. It was held that the remainder was good. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 CORNELIUS DUVAL executed a bill of sale, disposing of certain negroes, of which he was the rightful owner, to his daughter Esther West, during her natural life, and after her decease to be equally divided between such of her children as might be then living. Esther West died, leaving Vandever West, one of the appellants, and the wife of Keen, two of her children, then living. West and Keen being possessed of part of the negroes Macey, the appellee, claiming by purchase from Rezin West, the husband of Esther, brought an action of detinue in the Franklin Circuit Court against them for the negroes in their possession. Non detinet was pleaded, and issue joined thereon. On the motion of Macey the Circuit Court instructed the jury that the remainder of the slaves to the children of Esther West was void; that the sole and absolute property in the negroes passed by the bill of sale to Esther West, and that by operation of law the right thereto accrued to and became vested in her husband, Rezin West, under whom Macey claimed title. Macey recovered judgment for the negroes; from which Keen and West have prosecuted this appeal. A gives slaves to W for life, with remainder to the children of W--the remainder is lawful and effectual. By the 32d section of the act of 1798, respecting slaves, it is enacted "that no remainder of any slave or slaves shall or may be limited by any deed or last will and testament in writing of any person whatsoever, otherwise than the remainder of a chattel, personal, by the rules of common law, can or may be limited." The only question involved in the determination of this cause, is whether by the rules of the common law a chattel could be granted to one for life, with a limitation in remainder to another? It was anciently held that chattels in their nature were incapable of any limitation over, and that a grant or devise of them but for an hour or a minute, was a gift forever. Hence it was a long time before Courts of Justice could be prevailed upon to have any regard for a devise over, even of a chattel real or term for years, after an estate for life limited therein; and to get out of the literal authority of the old cases, a distinction was formerly taken, that a remainder might be limited for the residue of the years, but not for the residue of the term. But by a train of adjudged cases, that distinction does not now exist. And the remainder of a term, or a personal chattel, may be limited by will, whether the term, or the lease, or the use and occupation of the land, or the lands themselves, or the use of the chattel be bequeathed--3 Saund. 388, n 9, h, and the authorities there cited. To answer the agreement of parties and the exigencies of families, the same reason required that such limitations might be made by deed. And accordingly in the case of Wright, on the demise of Plowdon, against Cartwright,  1 Bur. 292, it was held that the limitation of a term for years, by deed, was good. And Blackstone in the 2d volume of his Commentaries, 398, acknowledges that by the ancient rules of the common law there could be no future property, to take place in expectancy, created in a personal chattel; but says, if a man now, either by deed or will, limits furniture, etc., to A for life, remainder over to B, it is good. In the case of Higginbottom v. Rucker, decided by the Court of Appeals in Virginia, 2 Call 313, it was adjudged that the gift of a slave to one for life, with a remainder to his children, was a good limitation. From these authorities, we think, by the rules of the common law, as they are recognized and known, both in England and this country, a personal chattel may be granted to one for life, with remainder to another, either by will or deed. The Circuit Court, therefore, erred in the instructions given to the jury. *2 Judgment reversed and cause remanded for a new trial. Ky.App. 1813. Keen v. Macey 3 Bibb 39, 6 Ky. 39, 1813 WL 594 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
