(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 113,  20 Ky. 113 (Ky.),  1827 WL 2587 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Davis and Deeson v. The Commonwealth. Jan. 25, 1826. *1 Record. Bastardy. Continuance. Recognizances. Judgments. ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF TRIGG. West Headnotes Bail 49 k 93 49 Bail 49II In Criminal Prosecutions 49k81 Action or Scire Facias on Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k93 k. Judgment and Enforcement Thereof. Most Cited  Cases Recognizances 325 k 11 325 Recognizances 325k11 k. Scire Facias. Most Cited Cases Judgment on a scire facias, on a recognizance to the state, should be that the plaintiff have execution. Recognizances 325 k 11 325 Recognizances 325k11 k. Scire Facias. Most Cited Cases A scire facias will not lie to have execution on a recognizance taken in a case in which the court had no authority to take it;  since, being taken without authority, it was no part of the record, and a scire facias lies to have execution on debts of record only. Recognizances 325 k 11 325 Recognizances 325k11 k. Scire Facias. Most Cited Cases On demurrer to a sci. fa., the court cannot examine the record of the original suit, nor the recognizance, which is a part of the record. Scire Facias 346 k 13 346 Scire Facias 346k13 k. Judgment and Enforcement Thereof. Most Cited Cases The judgment on a scire facias should be that the plaintiff have execution. Appeal and Error 30 k 516 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(B) Scope and Contents 30k516 k. Proceedings Included in General. Most Cited  Cases In a scire facias, the recognizance is no part of the record, unless made so by a bill of exceptions. Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76H k 55 76H Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76HV Paternity Proceedings 76Hk55 k. Time of Trial, and Continuance. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 53k67  Bastards) Bastardy cases may be continued from term to term in the county court, and a recognizance be taken of the putative father for his appearance. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] To obtain execution upon a recognizance acknowledged in the county court of Trigg by Davis and Deeson, a scire facias was sued out against them in favor of the commonwealth, and such proceeding were therein had as that finally, at the June term of said court, judgment was rendered, "that the defendants make their fines to the commonwealth, by the payment of thirty pounds, viz: The said Davis by the payment of twenty pounds, and the said Deeson by the payment of ten pounds, and that they pay the cost of the prosecution, and be taken, &c." *2 Scire facias for execution on a recognizance.-- Judgment of the circuit court. The recognizance is stated in the scire facias to have been entered into before the county court, conditioned for the appearance of Davis at the next term of the court, to answer a charge of being the father of a bastard child, then depending before the court; but on the trial of the scire facias no exceptions appear to have been taken to any opinion of the court, so as to make the recognizance or any of the proceedings upon the charge against Davis, in that court, a part of the record in this case. Recognizance was in a case of Bastardy. These remarks are made for the purpose of shewing that it would be improper in us, whilst reviewing the judgment which was rendered in the scire facias, to notice such of the assignment of errors as relate exclusively to the proceedings against Davis, upon the charge of being the father of the bastard child. In a scire facias the recognizance is no part of the record, unless made so by bill of exceptions. There is one of the assignments of errors, however, which it is proper to notice, though it may in some measure relate to those proceedings. It is that which questions the validity of the recognizance. We shall not, however, notice it because we are enabled to decide upon the validity of the recognizance, by looking into the record of the proceeding upon the charge against Davis, but because the scire facias alleges the recognizance to have been acknowledged before the county court in a case of bastardy, and because it is assumed by the assignment of errors, that the county court has no power in such a case to take a recognizance of the person charged for his appearance at a subsequent term. Scire facias lies to have execution of debts of record only. Were it true, that the county court possesses no competent power to take a recognizance for the purpose of procuring the appearance of a person charged with being the father of a bastard child, at a subsequent term, we should not doubt but what the court erred in rendering judgment in the present case; for, if the court had no power to take the recognizance when it was taken, the recognizance can not be said to have created a debt of record, and it is only to have execution of debts of that sort that a scire facias can be maintained. But we can not admit that there is any lack of power in the county court to take such a recognizance. The county court has jurisdiction to hear and decide upon all cases of bastardy, and to enable the court to exert that jurisdiction, the power to take recognizances must necessarily follow. The act upon that subject, it is true, in imperative language declares, that upon the person charged with being the father of a bastard child, appearing in court, "such court shall proceed to hear and determine the charge;" but though imperative in the language, the act ought not, we apprehend, to be construed so as to exclude the power to continue. *3 Case of bastardy in the county court may be continued, and a recognizance be taken of the putative father for his appearance. The objection to the recognizance can not, therefore, be sustained. The only other objection to which, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, any notice need be taken, relates to the regularity of the judgment. And with respect to that it is sufficient to remark, that the judgment is not only informally but substantially erroneous. Regularly the judgment should have been for the commonwealth to have execution of the debt contained in the recognizance, and not that the defendants make their fine, &c. upon which the commonwealth would be entitled to execution of a different sort than that to which she might cause to be issued upon a judgment regularly entered. Judgment in a scire facias that defendant make his fine to the commonwealth by the payment, &c., and may be taken, &c., is erroneous--For on such a judgment, the process of execution is not the same as on the proper judgment in debt. The judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below, and judgment there entered in conformity with this opinion. Mayes, for plaintiffs; Denny, attorney general. Ky.App. 1826. Davis v. Com. 4 T.B.Mon. 113, 20 Ky. 113, 1827 WL 2587 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
