(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 452,  10 Ky. 452 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1128 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. J. S. Magowen v. Thomas Hay. Jun. 4, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE LOGAN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 245 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k243 Persons Who May Question Validity of  Sale 161k245 k. Waiver and Estoppel. Most Cited  Cases Where a slave was sold on execution, and the owner was present at the sale and did not object, a person deriving his title from the owner, subsequently to the sale, cannot question the validity of the sale, in a suit to recover the slave from the purchaser at the sale, on the ground of an informality in the execution and indorsement thereon, and the original judgment on which such execution was issued need not be produced in such suit. Execution 161 k 275(2) 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k275 Effect of Defects or Irregularities in Execution, Levy,  or Sale 161k275(2) k. Judgment or Execution. Most Cited  Cases Though an execution and its indorsement were insufficient to authorize the constable to sell, yet, where the property was delivered by the debtor to the constable for sale to satisfy the debt, the purchaser acquired the title of his debtor therein. Execution 161 k 280(2) 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k277 Possession 161k280 Remedies for  Recovery 161k280(2) k. Pleading and Proof. Most Cited  Cases An execution under which property was sold is sufficient to justify recovery of possession of such property from one holding under a claim derived from the execution defendant subsequent to the sale, without production of the judgment on which the execution was issued, since such holder occupies the position of the defendant. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of detinue, brought by Magowen, to recover from Hay a negro girl. The trial was had on the general issue, and for the purpose of proving his right to the negro, Magowen introduced as evidence the copy of an execution which was issued by Joseph Hensly, a justice of the peace for Montgomery county, in favor of Abihu Anderson, administrator of Nicholas Anderson, deceased, for 41 13s debt, and 3s costs, against the estate of John Hardwick & Mitchell Hardiwick, bearing date the 1st day of October, 1810, directed to Porterfield Tolen, constable for Montgomery county, and containing a direction for the constable to make return thereof according to law. He also read in evidence, the following endorsement on the execution, namely--"I renew this execution for ninety days. Given under my hand this 4th of July, 1811, signed by the justice, Joseph Hensly." He also introduced as evidence the constable's return, in the following words--"Executed on a negro child named Rachel, the property of John Hardwick, given up to satisfy this debt; I exposed her to sale, agreeable to law, and Maple Hardwick became the purchaser. *2 PORTERFIELD TOLEN. Con." He also introduced, as evidence, the bill of sale given by the constable to Maple Hardwick for the negro girl, bearing date the 13th of August, 1811; and proved, by the constable, that the negro girl was delivered to him by John Hardwick to sell in satisfaction of the execution, and that he accordingly, in the presence of Hardwick and without objections from him, sold her, at public auction, a few days previous to the date of the bill of sale. A copy of the order of the county court, proving Tolen to be constable, was also introduced in evidence; and the bill of sale, from Maple Hardwick to Magowen, was also produced and its execution admitted. After all this evidence was introduced, the court, on the motion of the counsel for Hay, and without any evidence being introduced by him to shew in what manner he held the negro, excluded the evidence from the jury. The grounds on which the evidence was excluded does not appear on the record, and are left entirely to the conjecture of this court. If it were excluded on the ground that the record of the judgment, of the justice, on which the execution issued was not produced, we should entertain no doubt but the court erred. The evidence might have been excluded on that ground, if it had been shewn that Hay had a claim to the negro anterior to the time of the sale by the constable, but he may have derived his claim since then from John Hardwick; and if so, he can assume no better attitude in this contest than Hardwick could, were he the defendant, and in a contest with Hardwick the execution, without a transcript of the judgment, would not only be a justification for the constable, but all that can be required of the purchaser or his alienee. The judgment under which a slave is sold by an officer, need not be shewn in a suit brought to recover possession, unless the holder had a claim to the slave prior to the sale,--if he acquires his right from the original owner, subsequent to the sale, he occupies the situation of the original owner and can not question the judgment. But the evidence may have been excluded on the ground of the execution, and the endorsement made thereon by the justice, not conferring any authority on the constable to take and sell the negro girl. We have not thought it material in the present case, however, to enquire into the sufficiency of the execution and endorsement; for, however informal the execution and endorsement may be, it was competent for Hardwick to surrender his negro to the constable for the purpose of having her sold, to satisfy the demand against him, and in the present case he is proven, not only to have delivered the negro to the constable for the purpose of having her sold, but he appears, moreover, to have been present at the sale, and then made no objection to the sale. An informal execution and endorsement is yet valid, if the debtor voluntarily surrenders the property to be sold in discharge of the execution, and though present at the sale, does not object. *3 The judgment must be reversed with cost and the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had not inconsistent with this opinion. Crittenden, for plaintiff in error. Ky.App. 1821. Magowen v. Hay 3 A.K.Marsh. 452, 10 Ky. 452, 1821 WL 1128 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
