(Cite as: 4 Bibb 91,  7 Ky. 91 (Ky.),  1815 WL 675 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bacon v. Brown. Jun. 5, 1815. *1 In an action for damages for deceit in a sale, it is not necessary for the plaintiff to prove an offer to return the property. He may affirm the contract and recover damages for the deceit; or he may disaffirm the contract, and sue for the price paid; in the latter case the plaintiff ought to return or offer to return the property. Where there was evidence on both sides, and the weight of evidence was with the verdict, a new trial refused. Where the verdict is affirmed by the Court who tried the cause, the case should be strong and clear to induce the Appellate Court to set aside the verdict as against evidence. New trial refused, when moved on the ground of excessive damages, in an action for deceit in a sale, because they were not flagrantly and grossly excessive. West Headnotes Fraud 184 k 34 184 Fraud 184II Actions 184II(A) Rights of Action and Defenses 184k34 k. Conditions Precedent. Most Cited Cases In an action for deceit in the sale of property, it is not necessary for plaintiff to prove an offer to return the property. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. BROWN purchased from Bacon a negro man, and some time after he paid the purchase money, the negro died. Brown then brought suit against Bacon, alleging a warranty of soundness, and upon a trial on the general issue, a verdict and judgment were obtained by Brown. Bacon being dissatisfied with that judgment, brought the cause to this Court; and because it was thought the evidence did not support the allegation of warranty, the judgment was reversed, and the cause remanded to the Court below for new proceedings. When the cause went back to that Court leave was given Brown to file an amended declaration, which was accordingly done, and Bacon therein charged with fraud in the sale of the negro. To this amended declaration Bacon demurred, but the demurrer being overruled by the Court at the instance of Bacon, it was withdrawn, and the general issue pleaded; and upon a trial of that issue a verdict was again found for Brown; Bacon then moved for a new trial, but his motion was overruled and judgment entered on the verdict of the jury. From which judgment Bacon has again appealed to this Court; and has assigned for error--1. That the Court erred in overruling the appellant's demurrer to the declaration. 2. The Court erred in refusing to give the instructions as asked by the appellant, and in giving the instructions to the jury which they did give. 3. The Court erred in overruling the appellant's motion for a new trial. The first assignment of errors cannot be sustained. The appellant, by withdrawing his demurrer, has waived all exceptions to the correctness of the opinion of that Court in overruling it. The cause must (as has been repeatedly held by this Court) now be considered as if no demurrer had been ever filed. With respect to the second assignment, we are of opinion the Court below decided correctly. It was clearly unnecessary for the appellee, the plaintiff in that Court, to return the negro before he could maintain this action. That might be essential in an action for the consideration of the purchase; for there, as the right to recover would depend upon the contract being avoided by the purchaser, to prove such an avoidance evidence of the negro having been returned might be required. *2 Notwithstanding, however, such proof might be required where the purchaser disaffirms the contract and goes for the consideration, it cannot be necessary where, as in this case, the contract is affirmed and damages sought for the injury resulting from the fraud. In the latter case fraud is of the essence of the action; it is the commission of the fraud that gives the action; and it is from that time the cause of action is said to have accrued, and proof of the fraud, without proof of any subsequent act, will maintain the action. The failure, therefore, to return the negro, cannot defeat the appellee of his right to recover; but as that failure evinces an intention in him to affirm the contract, it was a circumstance proper for the consideration of the jury in mitigation of the damages. As, therefore, the opinion of the Court below has recognized these principles, their instructions to that effect are consequently correct. It remains to determine whether a new trial should have been awarded? It was asked for on the following grounds: 1. That the verdict was against law; 2. That the verdict was against evidence; and 3. That the damages were excessive. If the verdict be agreeable to evidence, it is plain that there is no doubt but it conforms to law, for it is not suggested that any principle of law is violated unless it results from the verdict being against evidence. With respect to the evidence, it may be properly denominated of a doubtful character; and although perhaps the whole of it cannot be reconciled, we are inclined to think its weight is on the side of the verdict. It is sufficient, however, to maintain the verdict, that the evidence is not plainly and palpably against it: for as the jury have ascertained the facts, and their verdict has been approved by the Court presiding on the trial, the case should be clear and strong for this Court to interpose. We have not thought it material to enter into a critical and exact calculation of the precise sum we should have given in damages, had we been upon the jury: for we have no doubt the verdict, if at all too high, is not so grossly and flagrantly so as to authorize a new trial on the ground of excessiveness of damages. The judgment of the Court below must, therefore, be affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Bacon v. Brown 4 Bibb 91, 7 Ky. 91, 1815 WL 675 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
