(Cite as: 4 Bibb 479,  7 Ky. 479 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1055 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Trimble v. Breckenridge. Apr. 9, 1817. *1 At common law the sheriff who sells property must perfect the title by conveying it although his term of office may have expired. A sheriff in office cannot convey land sold by his predecessor under a fieri facias, unless the purchaser produces the receipt or certificate from the former sheriff of the actual purchase, and payment of the money. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 305 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(H) Conveyance to Purchaser 161k305 k. Authority to Make. Most Cited  Cases A sheriff in office cannot convey land sold by his predecessor on execution, unless the purchaser produces the receipt or certificate from the former sheriff of the actual purchase and the payment of the money. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an appeal from a judgment rendered against Trimble in action of ejectment brought by him in the Court of original jurisdiction. He claims the land by purchase at a sale made under writs of fieri facias by the deputy of Moses Fuqua, former sheriff of Greenup county; but upon the trial attempted to manifest his title by producing a deed of conveyance from Jacob Kouns, sheriff and successor in office of Fuqua: and whether that deed passed the title to Trimble, is the only question deemed necessary to be noticed by this Court. Where the land is sold under writs of fieri facias, the execution is certainly not complete until the conveyance is made; and hence according to the settled doctrine of the common law, the officer who by selling commences the execution, should, although his term of office may have elapsed, perfect the execution by conveying the title. Pursuing this principle, Fuqua, the sheriff in office at the time of sale, either by himself or deputy, ought, upon Trimble's complying with the requisitions of the law, to have made a conveyance; and no deed from any other person could invest him with the title. The legislature of this country, aware, however, of mischiefs which might and probably would occur by a strict application of this principle, have, by an act of 1808  (4 Litt. 83) authorized in certain cases the successors in office to convey; but as that act, while it gives the authority, at the same time restricts its exercise to cases where the purchaser produces the receipt or certificate of the former sheriff of the actual purchase and payment of the full amount of the purchase money, a deed executed by the successor, without such a receipt or certificate, will not pass the title. The deed from Kouns to Trimble, therefore, as it appears to have been made without such a receipt or certificate, cannot authorize him to maintain this action; and the judgment of the Court below rendered against him is consequently correct and must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1817. Trimble v. Breckenridge 4 Bibb 479, 7 Ky. 479, 1817 WL 1055 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
