(Cite as: 3 Bibb 463,  6 Ky. 463 (Ky.),  1814 WL 828 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Curts v. Hill, etc. Oct. 17, 1814. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 418 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k417 Decree Pro Confesso 150k418 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited  Cases A. brought a bill for conveyance of a lot of land, showing a conveyance of the lot by his father to himself, and alleging that his father was entitled to a conveyance from one B., the former owner.  C., one of the defendants, proved a title from B. through D. The other defendants, who were nonresidents, not appearing, the bill was taken as confessed as to them, but dismissed as to C. Held, that the bill should be dismissed as to all the defendants;  A. having failed to prove his claim to the land upon which alone the jurisdiction could attach. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS suit was brought by the appellant, Jacob Curts, in the Court below, to obtain a conveyance to the lot No. 94, in the town of Bardstown. He claims the title through his father Conrad Curts, who he charges became entitled thereto by settling on the lot in 1782, and making improvements thereon according to the terms of settlement proposed and advertised by David Bard, the then proprietor thereof, through his agent William Bard. He further charges that since Conrad Curts became entitled to the lot, John C. Owings, with full knowledge thereof, has by some means obtained the legal title thereto from David Bard, and by a subsequent transfer conveyed the same to Hill, who he also alleges had previous thereto full knowledge of Conrad Curts' claim. He exhibits a deed of conveyance regularly recorded from Conrad Curts, transferring all his right in the lot to him, and makes David Bard, the unknown heirs of John C. Owings, deceased, and Atkinson Hill defendants. Hill appeared and answered the bill. He sets forth his purchase of the lot, admits he heard before he made the purchase that Curts claimed one half the lot, but the claim he understood was defective. He admits nothing as to Curts' right, and requires full proof thereof. Bard and the heirs of Owings being non-residents, an order of publication as against absent defendants was had, and the bill as to them taken as confessed. On a hearing of the cause the Court below dismissed the bill with costs; from which decree Curts has appealed to this Court. Two questions are presented for consideration in the determination of this case--1. Should the Court below have decreed a conveyance from Hill? And if not, 2. Ought compensation to have been decreed Curts against Bard, or the heirs of Owings? That Curts has failed to show himself entitled to a decree against Hill, we have no doubt. The answer of Hill put Curts on the proof of his right, and there is no evidence in the cause by which it is established. Some of the witnesses speak of the improvement of the lot and settlement by Curts, but there is no evidence showing Bard, either by himself or agent, ever agreed to convey lots to such as might settle and improve thereon, as it is proven Curts in the present instance has done. That Bard proposed terms to settlers, and agreed to convey to such as might comply therewith, rests solely for establishment on the allegation in Curts' bill. That allegation is not, as was contended in argument, supported by the advertisement of Bard, made exhibits in the bill; for it is clear the bill makes no such exhibits; and from the record as it now appears we cannot say any such do exist. That part of the bill by which it was endeavored to be maintained that the advertisements were made exhibits, is evidently nothing more than an allegation of the complainant Curts of the terms proposed by Bard. In the absence then of all proof tending to establish the right of Curts, the Court properly refused relief against Hill. *2 Whether relief should have been given against the other defendants, is a question of more doubt. We are however of opinion it should not. Those defendants being non-residents, the Circuit Court could take jurisdiction against them on the grounds alone of the subject matter in contest being within their jurisdiction. But as Curts has failed to manifest his right to the thing upon which alone the jurisdiction could attach, the Court properly refused to grant relief against the absent defendants. The circumstance of the bill being taken for confessed does not alter the case; for it appears by the bill that the legal title to the land is in Hill, and as no decree can be made against him, there is consequently nothing upon which the jurisdiction of the Court can act so as to authorize a decree against the other defendants.--The decree must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Curtis v. Hill 3 Bibb 463, 6 Ky. 463, 1814 WL 828 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
