(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 266,  21 Ky. 266 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1547 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Fauntleroy v. Lyle. Jun. 28, 1827. *1 Executors and Administrators. Evidence. Devastavits. Sureties. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 265 162 Executors and Administrators 162VI Claims Against Estate 162VI(E) Priorities and Payment 162k265 k. Claims of Executor or Administrator. Most Cited  Cases Administrators' claims for their services have precedence of the claims of creditors. Executors and Administrators 162 k 535 162 Executors and Administrators 162XIII Liabilities on Administration Bonds 162k535 k. Conclusiveness of Adjudication Against Principal. Most Cited Cases A judgment against an administrator by default, suggesting a devastavit, is not conclusive in a subsequent action on the fiduciary bond against him and his sureties. The defendants, or either of them, may show the amount of assets. Executors and Administrators 162 k 537(9) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XIII Liabilities on Administration Bonds 162k537 Actions 162k537(9) k. Evidence. Most Cited Cases A settlement with the county court is evidence in an action against the administrator and his sureties, by a creditor, on his fiduciary bond. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action brought by Fauntleroy, a creditor of John W. Stout, deceased, upon the bond executed by Benjamin Stout, administrator of the goods and chattels of John W. Stout, deceased, and Lyle, &c., his sureties in the administration bond. Action upon the administration bond of Stout and his sureties. A verdict was found by the jury in favour of the defendants in the court below, and judgment thereupon rendered against Fauntleroy. It is assigned for error: 1st. The court erred in admitting evidence to the jury. 2nd. The court erred in the instruction to the jury. 3d. This judgment which had been recovered against Benjamin Stout, the administrator, for a devastavit, was conclusive against their sureties in the administration bond. The admitted evidence consists of the orders of the county court, and the settlement of the estate with commissioners made by the administrator in pursuance thereof, and according to former decisions, and in conformity with what we understand to be the correct doctrine of the law, was properly allowed to go to the jury, for the purpose of proving that the estate had been fully administered by the administrator. The first error assigned can not, therefore, be sustained. Settlement with the county court, is evidence in an action against the administrator and his sureties, by a creditor, on his fiduciary bond. The second assignment of errors is predicated upon the idea that, as against creditors, an administrator is not entitled to a credit out of the estate to be administered for his services as administrator, contrary to what has also been heretofore decided to be the correct doctrine of the law upon that subject. *2 Administrator's claims for their services, have precedence of the claims of creditors. The third assignment of errors is opposed by the express words of the act of assembly upon the subject of executors and administrators. The judgment which, by that assignment, is contended to be conclusive against the sureties of the administrator, was recovered against him by default, in an action suggesting a devastavit, and as such, according to the provisions of the act of January, 1811, can not even conclude the administrator from shewing, in any subsequent action against him, upon his official bond, that he has fully administered the estate of the intestate. The act declares that "in all suits against executors or administrators, on their bonds or otherwise, for devastavits, they shall be at liberty to plead plene administravit; and under such plea, shall be at liberty to show the real amount of assets which were in their hands to be administered, when the original judgment was rendered against them; for which sum judgment may be rendered, and for no more." 1 Dig. 535. Judgment against an administrator by default, suggesting a devastavit, is not conclusive in a subsequent action on the fiduciary bond against administrator and his sureties. It is true the act says nothing as to the sureties of executors or administrators, but if after suffering judgment to go against them by default, in an action suggesting a devastavit, it be competent for executors or administrators to show that they had no assets in their hands to be administered, at the time judgment went against them, most indubitably, the sureties are at liberty to show the same thing in any action which may be brought to charge them for a devastavit alleged to have been committed by their principal. Amount of the assets in such case may be shewn by either the administrator or his sureties. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Chinn, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. Fauntleroy v. Lyle 5 T.B.Mon. 266, 21 Ky. 266, 1827 WL 1547 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
