(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 16,  10 Ky. 16 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1142 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Edmund Phillips et ux. v. Thomas Tibbats. Oct. 27, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Real Actions 322 k 3 322 Real Actions 322k1 Writ of Right 322k3 k. Proceedings. Most Cited Cases Where, to a writ of right, the defendant tenders the mise on the mere right, but no replication is filed, this is not a joinder of the mise on the mere right, justifying a judgment by default against the demandants. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was a writ of right by Phillips and wife against Tibbats, in the Fayette circuit court. The demandants counted in the form prescribed by the act reforming the mode of proceedings in writs of right; and the defendant tendered the mise upon the mere right by plea also in the form prescribed by the act. Th?? plea was filed, and, without replication by the demandants, the cause was continued; and, at the succeeding term, the demandants' attorney moved the court to discontinue their writ, but the court overruled the motion, and the demandants failing to appear, judgment in bar of their writ was rendered on account of their default. From that judgment the demandants appealed to this court; and by their assignment of errors, question the decision of the circuit court in refusing to allow a dismissal of the writ, and in rendering judgment in bar thereof. If, by replication to the defendant's plea, the mise had been joined by the demandants, there would have been no doubt of the correctness of the decision of the circuit court. No principle is better settled, nor more universally admitted by every treatise on the subject, than that final judgment should be given for a default of the demandant in a writ of right, after the mise joined upon the mere right. Co. Lit. 295-6; Com. Dig. Droit, C. 6, 2. Saun. 45, R. 4, f. Fitz. R. N. 12, R. After the mise is a writ of right is joined on the mere right, if demandant makes default, final judgment shall be rendered in bar of the writ--but a replication is necessary to constitute a joinder. From the authorities cited, it appears, however, to be essential that the mise should be actually joined to authorize final judgment against a demandant on account of his default. Such an inference is plainly deducible from the language employed by Coke: He says, "Seeing the mise ?? joined upon the mere right, albeit the verdict of the grand assize be given upon another point, yet judgment final shall be given. And so it is if the tenant, after the mise joined make default, or confess the action, or if the demandant be non-suit, and yet in none of these cases they of the grand issue gave their verdict upon the mere right." And Fitzherbert is more explicit, and places the subject beyond controversy--he says, "If a man lose by default in a writ of right before the mise joined, he shall have a writ of right against him who recovereth; but after mise joined, it is otherwise for then upon default after issue joined, the judgment shall be final, as well against the demandant by his non-suit, as against the tenant, if he make default." *2 From these authorities it results, that the judgment of the court below should not have been final in bar of the demandant's writ; for whatever may, under the ancient course of practice, have been considered joining the mise, it can not, under the act of this country reforming the mode of proceedings in writs of right, with any propriety, be said to be joined until replication is made to the defendant's plea; and, until joined, final judgment ought not to be rendered for a default of the defendants. With as much propriety might an issue be said to be joined in a personal action by the defendant's plea, where replication is required, as to say the mise was joined in this case by the defendant's plea when the act requires a replication--in the former case, by the plea an issue may be said to be tendered and so in the latter case may the mise be said to be tendered by the plea; but as in the latter case a replication is required by the act, in neither case can the issue, with any propriety, be considered actually joined until replication. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and the defendant's writ dismissed with cost. Wickliffe, for plaintiff; Haggin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1820. Phillips v. Tibbats 3 A.K.Marsh. 16, 10 Ky. 16, 1820 WL 1142 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
