(Cite as: 3 Bibb 97,  6 Ky. 97 (Ky.),  1813 WL 614 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Moore's adm'rs v. Tandy & Castleman. Jun. 29, 1813. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 125 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k123 Coexecutors and Coadministrators 162k125 k. Joint or Several Liability. Most Cited  Cases One executor or administrator is not liable for a devastavit committed by his co-executor or co-administrator. Executors and Administrators 162 k 446 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k446 k. Plea of Plene Administravit. Most Cited  Cases Two administrators may join in a plea of plene administraverunt, although their defenses under that plea are different. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. The Chief Justice absent. *1 THIS was an action of assumpsit, brought by the defendants in error, against the plaintiffs, upon a contract made with the intestate, Benjamin Moore, deceased. The defendants pleaded jointly, and in substance, non-assumpsit and plene administravit. Issues were joined on each plea, and on the trial the defendant, Ann Moore after the evidence was gone through, moved the Court to instruct the jury that she, as administratrix, was not liable for assets which came to the hands and possession of her co-defendants and administrators, but which had not come to her hands or possession: the Court overruled the motion and instructed the jury that she was liable for the assets which had come to the hands of her co-defendants. A verdict was found against the defendants jointly on both issues, and judgment awarded thereon; from which judgment this writ of error has been proscuted. One executor or administrator not liable for assets that came to the hands of his co-executor or administrator only, nor for a devastavit committed by his co-executor. A joint plea which is sufficient for one but not for the other is bad, but not in a joint plea of plene administraverunt. The only question which is deemed necessary for consideration in this cause, is whether the Circuit Court erred in withholding the instructions to the jury asked? We are of opinion the decision was erroneous. Had the defendants pleaded separate pleas of plene administravit, there could exist no doubt, for the rule in such a case is settled, that one executor shall not be charged with the wrong or devastavit of his companion, and shall be no farther liable than for the assets which came to his hands--3 Bac. Abr. 32, letter D, 2. The same reason requires that the rule should equally apply to the case of administrators; and it is conceived the circumstance of the plea being joint, as in this case, does not change the case: for although it is a rule in pleading, that if two defendants join in a plea which is sufficient for one, but not for the other, the plea is bad as to both defendants; yet this rule does not apply to the case of a joint plea of plene administravit by executors, and that in such a plea each is only liable to pay the assets found by the jury to be in his own hands--1 Chit. on Plead. 545--1 Saund. 356, n. 10. We are of opinion, therefore, the Court erred in not giving the instructions asked, and in giving the instruction which they did to the jury. The judgment must be reversed with costs; the cause remanded for a new trial to be had on the issue joined on the plea of plene administravit, before judgment is entered on the verdict of the jury on the issue to the plea of non-assumpsit. Ky.App. 1813. Moore's Adm'rs v. Tandy 3 Bibb 97, 6 Ky. 97, 1813 WL 614 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
