(Cite as: 3 Bibb 313,  6 Ky. 313 (Ky.),  1814 WL 772 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Weisiger v. Graham, etc. Apr. 21, 1814. West Headnotes Principal and Agent 308 k 171(1) 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(D) Ratification 308k168 Implied Ratification 308k171 Acceptance of  Benefits 308k171(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases That bread was delivered to the defendant's servant, and came to the use of the master, is prima facie sufficient to charge the master for the value. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS action was brought in the Court below by the defendants in error, against the plaintiff in error. Their declaration is in assumpsit for the sale and delivery of a quantity of bread. Non-assumpsit was pleaded, and a verdict obtained by the plaintiffs in that Court. A motion was then made for a new trial, but overruled, and exceptions taken to the opinion of the Court, and the whole evidence made part of the record. The question made for decision here is, whether a new trial should have been granted? The application for a new trial was made on the grounds that the verdict of the jury was contrary to evidence and law. The evidence abundantly proves the bread was delivered to the plaintiff's servant, and that it came to his use. These circumstances alone are prima facie evidence that the servant had authority from the plaintiff to obtain the bread on a credit--See Peak's Evid. 250, and the authorities there cited. But as the evidence is not conclusive, he might by other evidence repel the presumption. This, however, could only be done by showing the defendants in error knew he did not intrust his servants to buy on credit. Whether, therefore, proof of this description was made, was peculiarly and essentially the province of the jury to determine. It is not enough, that were we jurors we might be inclined to differ in opinion with the jury in relation to this fact; but to authorize the interference of the Court in granting a new trial, the verdict should be clearly and palpably against evidence. We cannot say the present is such a case: for although it is manifest, the plaintiff in error did not intend his servant should be credited, there is no evidence in the cause showing the defendants had any knowledge of that intent; but to the contrary it appears the plaintiff's bar-keeper at different times sent the servant for bread without the money to pay for it. The Court below, therefore, decided correctly in refusing a new trial. A new trial ought not to be granted on the ground that the verdict is against evidence, unless it is palpably so. That bread was delivered to defendant's servant and came to the use of the master, is prima facie evidence of the authority of the servant to buy bread for the master, but may be repelled by showing the plaintiff knew the master did not permit the servant to buy on credit. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Weisiger v. Graham 3 Bibb 313, 6 Ky. 313, 1814 WL 772 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
