(Cite as: 4 Bibb 568,  7 Ky. 568 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1111 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Miller, etc. v. Hoy, etc. Jun. 9, 1817. *1 Tenants in common cannot recover in ejectment on a joint demise.--7 Ky. 241. Upon the death of a joint devisee, his part descends to the survivors.--Ante 421. Upon a joint demise for the whole tract, the plaintiff may recover according to the joint interest of the lessors an undivided part--3d vol. 304. That judgment was given for the entire tract when it should only have been for an undivided interest, cannot be assigned for error in this Court--application for a new trial ought to have been made in the Court below, if the jury found more than the evidence authorized. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 121 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k121 k. Appeal and Error. Most Cited Cases That judgment was given for the entire tract of land for which ejectment was brought, when it should only have been for an undivided interest, cannot be assigned as error in the court of appeals, where it is in accordance with the verdict, and no application for a new trial was made in the court below. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE appellees brought this ejectment in the Court below to recover the possession of a tract of land devised to them and their deceased brother Rowland Hoy by their father William Hoy. The demise laid in the declaration is a joint one by all the lessors, and on the trial, the appellants, who were defendants in the Court below, moved the Court to instruct the jury to find as in a case of nonsuit, on the ground of a variance between the evidence and the title as laid in the declaration; but their motion was overruled, and after the finding of the verdict in favor of the appellees, judgment was rendered against the appellants. The will of William Hoy no doubt passed an estate in common, and not a joint tenancy, to the devisees; and as such according to the repeated decisions of this Court, the appellees, who are the lessors of the plaintiff in the Court below, could not regularly upon a joint demise recover their proportions claimed under the will. But the lessors are proved to be the brothers and sisters of Rowland Hoy, one of the devisees in the will; and as Rowland is also proved to have died after the decease of his father, and without issue, his estate derived under the will, upon his decease, as was held in the case of Doe, on the demise of Harrison, etc., v. Botts, etc., (ante 320) descended upon the lessors in coparcenary: and to recover the possession of that interest, a joint demise is certainly proper. The lessors, therefore, as to the part devised to Rowland, proved a title in perfect accordance to that laid in the declaration; and consequently the Court below decided correctly in refusing to give the instructions asked by the appellants. But it is moreover assigned for error, that the judgment, as it is for the entire tract, and not for the interest of Rowland only, ought to be reversed. *2 The judgment is in strict conformity with the finding of the jury, and if that is for more than the evidence authorized, the appellants ought to have applied to the Court below for a new trial; but as they appear not to have done so, they must be supposed to have waived all objections to the verdict, and this Court should not on that ground interpose and award a new trial. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1817. Miller v. Hoy 4 Bibb 568, 7 Ky. 568, 1817 WL 1111 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
