(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 462,  20 Ky. 462 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1460 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Slack &c. v. Thompson. Apr. 24, 1827. *1 Obligations for Land. Deeds. Construction. ERROR TO THE MASON CIRCUIT; ADAM BEATTY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 152 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(B) Conveyance 400k149 Sufficiency 400k152 k. Conformity to Provisions of Contract in  General. Most Cited Cases An instrument, signed by the parties, stating that one of the parties "doth bargain and sell" a tract of land (describing it), and that the same shall be in the quiet possession of the vendee, was construed to be a covenant to convey, with general warranty. Deeds 120 k 153 120 Deeds 120III Construction and Operation 120III(F) Conditions 120k152 Construction and Operation of Conditions 120k153 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases An instrument purporting to sell and warrant land to the vendee was held not to be affected by an indorsement obliging the grantor to assign a mortgage which he held on his vendor's land as security for the title to the grantee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] In conformity to an agreement between Slack and Thompson, the parties mutually executed a writing wherein it is stated, "that Slack doth bargain and sell to the said Thompson, one hundred acres of land, lying and situated on the waters of Clark's run, being a part of a pre-emption warrant surveyed and located in the name of George Clark, beginning &c &c. The aforesaid land and premises, together with its appurtenances, to be in the quiet and peaceable possession of the said Thompson, his heirs and assigns forever, without any let, hindrance, suit, trouble or molestation whatever." Written contract between the parties. The writing bears dates the 24th day of June, 1808, and upon the back thereof, is indorsed the following memorandum, to-wit: "Whereas I have a mortgage of John Clark, for one hundred acres of land, on which his mill stands, for securing the conveyance and title of the one hundred acres, sold by this agreement to Joseph Thompson--Now I agree and bind myself to transfer said mortgage to said Thompson, as soon as he pays to me the amounts of his notes, of this date--Witness my hand and seal, this first day of June, 1809, Indorsement. JACOB SLACK." To obtain a conveyance for the one hundred acres described in the writing, executed by Slack and Thompson, the latter exhibited his bill in equity, against the former and others, and finally succeeded in obtaining a decree of the circuit court, ordering Slack to make a conveyance by deed, with general warranty, &c. Bill for conveyance by Thompson, and decree. The question is, whether or not according to the contract between the parties, Thompson has a right to demand, and Slack is bound to convey the land by deed with general warranty? *2 Questions stated. Slack contends that he undertook to make no deed and is bound to do nothing, but assign the mortgage which he holds on Clarke, to secure the title. And on the part of Thompson, it is insisted that by the agreement of the 24th of June, 1808, Slack is bound to convey by deed with general warranty; and that by the subsequent agreement of the 1st June, 1809, the mortgage on Clarke was to be assigned by Slack, as an additional security of the title. We can not admit the correctness of the construction contended for by Slack. By the agreement of the 24th June, 1808, he appears not only to have sold the land to Thompson, but he moreover stipulated that Thompson, his heirs, &c. should quietly enjoy the possession thereof forever. The purchase of Thompson was, therefore, a contract for the fee simple estate in the land, and it is not to be presumed, that in contracting about such an interest, either party intended no conveyance should be made of the title. It is more probable that it was understood by the contracting parties, that whatever might be necessary to pass the inheritance and secure to Thompson and his heirs the title, should thereafter be done by Slack. Such would, most probably be the understanding of plain men, uninfluenced by legal niceties and technicalities, when entering into such a contract, and such we understand to be the fair import of the agreement of 1808. An instrument signed by the parties stating that one of the parties "doth bargain and sell" a tract of land, describing it, and that the same shall be in the quiet possession of the vendee, construed to be a covenant to convey with general warranty. We think therefore, that Slack is bound by that agreement to convey the title, and under his stipulation for the quiet enjoyment of the possession by Thompson and his heirs, we apprehend, the conveyance should be by deed with general warranty. Nor are we of opinion, that the liability of Slack as resulting from the agreement of 1808, has in any degree been diminished by the subsequent agreement of 1809. By that latter agreement Slack undertook to assign the mortgage which he held upon Clarke, but it is obvious from the terms of that agreement, that it was not intended thereby to release Slack from any existing liability. An endorsement on a covenant to convey land is not affected by an endorsement obliging the covenantor to assign a mortgage on his vendor to the covenantee to secure the title. The decree must be affirmed with cost. Crittenden, Depew and Brown, for plaintiff; Mayes, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Slack v. Thompson 4 T.B.Mon. 462, 20 Ky. 462, 1827 WL 1460 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
