(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 163,  8 Ky. 163 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1282 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Edw'd Worthington et ux. v. Thomas Kennedy. Apr. 8, 1818. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MERCER CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Slaves 356 k 7 356 Slaves 356k7 k. Transfers of Slaves. Most Cited Cases A verbal gift of a slave, in 1782 or 1783, conferred no right on the donee, as gifts of such property were then required to be in writing. Slaves 356 k 7 356 Slaves 356k7 k. Transfers of Slaves. Most Cited Cases Where plaintiff's father, in consequence of the verbal gift of a slave to plaintiff by her grandfather, while plaintiff was a child, took such slave into his possession, and treated her as his own for ten years, possession of such slave by plaintiff during such period could not be inferred by implication of law, as she had acquired no right of property by such gift, though, if she had gained a general property thereby, she might, by implication of law, have been considered possessed thereof. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This action was brought by the appellants in the court below to recover from the appellee a number of slaves. The trial was had upon the general issue, and after the evidence was gone through, the court on the motion of the appellee's counsel, instructed the jury to find as in case of a non-suit. As it is the province of courts to decide upon points of law only, and as the instructions given in this case imply a decision against the appellant's right to recover, it is proper we should, in reviewing the decision, assume as proven, every fact which the evidence conduced in any event to prove, and enquire whether, in point of law, upon such a state of facts, the appellants are entitled to succeed in the present action? Thus considering the evidence, the appellants may be said to have proven, that whilst the appellant, Elizabeth, was of tender years, and shortly after her birth, her grandfather, John Madison, the then owner of the negro, Alse, now in contest, and the mother of the others, in 1782 or 3, verbally gave Alse to his grand-daughter; and that in consequence of the gift, Rowland Madison, the father of the appellant Elizabeth, took the negro Alse into his possession, and both Alse the negro, and Elizabeth the daughter, continued to reside with Rowland from that time until the negro was sold to the appellee Kennedy, by Rowland, in 1793, and that during that time the negro was in the family of Rowland called Elizabeth's, but that he exercised the same ownership over her as the other of his slaves. A verbal gift of a slave in 1782 or 3, confers no right on the donee, the law then requiring such gifts to be in writing. From this state of the evidence it is plain, that if the appellants are entitled to the negroes, their right must be derived in some other way than through the supposed gift; for as that was not reduced to writing, it is clear, according to the provisions of the law then in force, no interest can have passed to the appellant Elizabeth. *2 But it was contended in argument that, although the gift was invalid, yet as the possession was taken by Rowland Madison, her father, that possession should enure to the benefit of Elizabeth, and as it was continued more than five years, under that possession, Elizabeth should be considered as gaining a good title against all the world, and hence it was inferred, that the right thus manifested by the evidence of possession, authorized a recovery against the appellee. Waiving the enquiry, whether possession can, in any case, give a positive right to slaves, we have no doubt but if it can, that in the present case such a possession has not been proven in the appellant Elizabeth. Whether actual possession of a slave for five years, without right, will give title to the holder, is doubtful; but implied possession clearly will not. Giving the evidence its full operation in favor of the appellants, it is plain that Rowland Madison, as the ostensible owner, was in fact possessed of the slaves until the sale to Kennedy; and although if his daughter had gained a general property by the gift, she might, by implication of law, have been considered possessed; yet as she gained no such property by the gift, her possession can not be inferred by implication of law; and as the evidence shews clearly, that her father had in fact the possession, it is plain that in consequence of the possession the appellants cannot have gained a right to the negroes, and consequently the instructions of the court below was correctly given to the jury. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Haggin for appellant, Hardin for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Worthington v. Kennedy 1 A.K.Marsh. 163, 8 Ky. 163, 1818 WL 1282 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
