(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 454,  9 Ky. 454 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1093 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William M'Clain v. John Gregg. Oct. 4, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MASON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Witnesses 410 k 97 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k91 Interest of Party or Other Person 410k97 k. Liability on Warranty or Other Liability Over.  Most Cited Cases The grantor in a deed of conveyance, who covenants that he has good right to sell the land, and that he will warrant the same against all persons claiming under him, is a competent witness for the grantee, in an action brought by him against one who does not claim under the grantor, as he cannot be interested in the event of a suit. Witnesses 410 k 97 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k91 Interest of Party or Other Person 410k97 k. Liability on Warranty or Other Liability Over.  Most Cited Cases A grantor by a deed with special warranty is competent to prove its execution, if the subscribing witnesses are out of the state and defendant does not claim through him. Deeds 120 k 82 120 Deeds 120II Recording and Registration 120k82 k. Necessity as Between Parties to Instrument. Most Cited Cases As between the parties, a deed is valid, though not recorded. Ejectment 142 k 12 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k8 Title to Support Action 142k12 k. Paper Title. Most Cited Cases A husband may convey or demise such an estate in the land of his wife as authorizes his grantee to maintain ejectment therefor. Ejectment 142 k 15(1) 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k8 Title to Support Action 142k15 Title from Common Source 142k15(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where both parties claim title under the same grantor, it is sufficient to prove a title derived from him without proving his title, as neither party can deny such title. Ejectment 142 k 25(2) 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k22 Defenses 142k25 Title or Right of Possession of Third  Person 142k25(2) k. Right to Show Outstanding Title. Most Cited  Cases In a contest for town lots in which both parties claim under the trustees of the town, defendant is estopped to set up an outstanding title. Husband and Wife 205 k 137(5) 205 Husband and Wife 205V Wife's Separate Estate 205V(B) Rights and Liabilities of Husband 205k137 Power to Manage or Control 205k137(5) k. Sale of Realty. Most Cited  Cases Where a husband conveys his wife's land, an estate for his life passes, and the grantee may maintain ejectment. Evidence 157 k 374(10) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k374 Attesting  Witnesses 157k374(10) k. Testimony of Parties to Instrument.  Most Cited Cases A grantor by deed with special warranty is competent to prove its execution, if the surviving witnesses are out of the state, and the defendant does not claim through the grantor. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 This was an ejectment brought by Greggs, to recover the possession of two lots of ground in the town of Germantown. Gregg claimed the lots under the trustees of the town, and on the trial in the circuit court, produced in evidence a deed from the trustees to John Morford, and a deed from Morford to George Dawson, a deed from Dawson to John M'Nitt, and a deed from James M'Nitt and William Allin, and his wife Elizabeth, late Elizabeth M'Nitt, to Gregg, and proved that James M'Nitt and Elizabeth Allin, who intermarried with William Allin, were the children and heirs of John M'Nitt. To the reading in evidence of this latter deed M'Clain objected, on the ground of its not being regularly recorded, but it appearing that the subscribing witness lived out of the state, the deed was permitted to be proved by the grantor, James M'Nitt, and used in evidence. It was also proven on the part of the plaintiff in that court, that the lots in question were included by the deeds, and that the requisitions of the act regulating the conveyance of lots by the trustees of the town had been complied with, and read the act on that subject to the jury, as contained in  1 Littell, 653. That act provides, that the purchasers of lots, in the town of Germantown, in the county of Mason, who shall, thereafter, receive deeds of conveyance from the trustees thereof, shall hold the land against Philemon Thomas and his heirs, or any other person whatever; provided, nevertheless,that the said Philemon Thomas, previous to the making any such conveyances, shall enter into bond with one or more securities to the trustees, in the penalty of l2000, conditioned for the payment of the amount of such sales, with interest to any person who shall thereafter establish a more legal or equitable title to said land--this act passed 27th February, 1797. The plaintiffs also proved that Thomas claimed the land on which the town was laid off, under the patent of John May and John Tabb, for 18,000 acres. The defendant in that court, then produced the patent of May and Tabb, and which was admitted to include the lots in contest, and proved the lots had been claimed for the last 24 years, as part of May's and Tabb's patent, and that John M'Nitt, through whom Gregg claims, was the first in possession, and that the defendant also claimed under him, and that all the town lots were claimed under that patent, and under Thomas, through the trustees of the town, &c. The evidence here closed; and the defendant, thereupon moved the court to instruct the jury, to find for him, upon the following grounds: 1. Because, by the act of the legislature, the title to the lots were not vested either in Thomas or the trustees of the town. 2. If the title of Thomas was vested in the trustees, that of May and Tabb was not, and as that is paramount to Thomas' claim, though not proven to be in the defendant; yet as an outstanding title, it furnished a sufficient cause for the jury to find against the plaintiff. *3 3. The deed of James M'Nitt, &c., conveyed no interest to Gregg--it not having been recorded according to law--But if it conveyed any interest, it was not so proven as to pass the estate of Elizabeth Allin, wife to William Allin. But the court refused to instruct the jury to find for the defendant, as to the whole or any part of the lots--being of opinion that the deed in Gregg, though not sufficiently proven to pass the estate in fee from the feme, yet as it was executed by the trustees and James M'Nitt, it passed to Gregg, such an interest as would authorize a recovery in ejectment. And being also of opinion, that by the act of assembly, the title should be adjudged, in a contest between those claiming through the trustees, to have vested in the trustees. Exceptions were taken, as well to the opinion of the court in admitting in evidence the deed to Gregg, as in refusing to instruct the jury, and the whole of the evidence made part of the record. And the jury having returned a verdict for the plaintiff. Judgment was, thereupon, rendered by the court--and from that judgment M'Clain has appealed to this court. A grantor by deed, with special warranty, is competent to prove its execution, if the subscribing witnesses are out of the state, and the defendant does not claim thro' the grantor. In a contest for town lots, both parties claiming under the trustees, the defendant is estopped to deny the right of the trustees, or to set up an outstanding title. The assignment of errors questions each of the opinions giving by the court in the progress of the trial. The deed to Gregg was, no doubt, properly allowed to go in evidence to the jury. The subscribing witness appears not to have been within the state; and as the deed contains no warranty against any other person, than those claiming under the grantors, James M'Nitt, can not have been incompetent to prove its execution in a contest with one not claiming through him. And with respect to the first and second grounds upon which the instructions were asked, there is as little room to doubt. From the acts regulating the town, it is perfectly clear, the legislature intended to invest the trustees with the title; and it is certainly not competent for those claiming through the trustees, and exhibiting no evidence whatever of title, to contest the power of the trustees to convey, or protect themselves against the title of the trustees, by shewing an outstanding title in others. And in this case both parties are proven to claim through the trustees, and under John M'Nitt, who is shewn to have had title regularly derived from the trustees. It was competent, however, for M'Clain to contest the title of Gregg derived through the heirs of John M'Nitt; and the third ground relied on for the instructions, presents the question as to the sufficiency of the deed from the heirs, to convey any title to Gregg; and if any, as it was not executed in the mode prescribed for alienating the inheritance of married women; under the opinion given by the court, the question also occurs, as to Gregg's right to recover the whole of the lots in contest. *4 An unrecorded deed passes the title except as to creditors and purchasers. That the title of James M'Nitt and William Allin, whatever it was, passed by the deed to Gregg, admits of no controversy. To be valid against creditors and purchasers, the deed should, no doubt, have been proven, and lodged in the proper office, to be recorded within the time prescribed by law; but M'Clain is not proven to be either a creditor or purchaser, and as between the parties to a deed, it has been frequently held, the title passes, notwithstanding the deed may not have been recorded, or lodged with the clerk, for that purpose. On marriage the husband acquires an estate for her life on the wife's lands, and if he sells them, though her inheritance does not pass, (unless the statute is pursued) yet an estate during her life passes, and grantee may maintain an ejectment. Whether, however, such a title passed to Gregg, as to enable him to recover the whole lots, or a moiety only, turns upon the question, whether or not, a husband, by his deed, can convey such an interest in the inheritance of his wife, as to authorize his vendee to maintain an ejectment; for if he can do so, as Allin appears to have executed a deed purporting to pass the whole of his interest in the lots, the court was correct in refusing to instruct the jury to find for M'Clain as to any part. By the marriage the husband does not become absolute proprietor of the wife's inheritance--he gains therein an inheritance, however, during her life--he may receive the profits, and if not in the possession, he may gain possession by entering upon the land--he may lease the land, and for the purpose of trying the title in an action of ejectment, it is sufficient to lay the demise in his name, without joining that of his wife--Run. on Eject. 224--Cro. Ja. 332. These authorities prove, conclusively, that the husband may convey such an estate in the lands of his wife, as to authorize his vendee to maintain an ejectment, and consequently, the deed of Allin, the husband, must be construed to pass such an interest to Gregg. The deed it is true purports to pass an estate in fee, an interest greater than it was possible for the husband to convey; but the circumstance of its importing to convey more, can not prevent the deed from passing that interest, which it was lawful for the husband to convey. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Bibb, for appellant; Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. McClain v. Gregg 2 A.K.Marsh. 454, 9 Ky. 454, 1820 WL 1093 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
