(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 479,  8 Ky. 479 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1054 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Waggoner's Trustees v. M'Kinney et al. Apr. 21, 1819. *1 APPEAL. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 403 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k403 k. Nature and Scope of Remedy in General. Most Cited  Cases Equity cannot revise the opinion of a law judge, but on a sufficient case made out will order a new trial at law. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases Equity will not entertain jurisdiction where there is an adequate remedy at law. JUDGE ROWAN DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Owsley. John P. Waggoner sold to Joseph Ballenger and Abraham M'Kinney, a running mare by the name of the Kerkendall filly, for $500, three hundred of which was paid; for the balance, they executed their note to Banks and Bodley, trustees of the said Waggoner--who brought suit, and recovered judgment for the amount thereof; M'Kinney filed his bill in chancery, enjoining the judgment, on the ground that Waggoner had practiced a fraud upon them in the sale of the said mare--that she had been bought as a race mare and on account of her speed or fleetness, which Waggoner had grossly misrepresented:--He had represented that she had been tried with Parrot's colt, and had, and could beat the said colt, with equal weight of 100 lbs. on each, between 25 and 30 feet on a quarter of a mile--that she had done it--that her fleetness had not been impaired by her age, which was 12 or 13 years--that, confiding in these representations, they had purchased her--that, in truth and in fact, she had never been tried with Parrot's colt, and could not run as fast as that colt. He stated, moreover, that he had paid the said Waggoner the said $200 in cattle, which he had raised and procured for that purpose, and that the said Waggoner had, by a fraudulent collusion with the said Ballenger, and without his knowledge, privity, or consent, applied the amount thereof to the credit of a distinct and individual debt, due from the said Ballenger to the said Waggoner, of which he had no knowledge. He alleged, moreover, that he was not present at the trial at law, not expecting it come on that day--that on that account, and on the ground that he had discovered, after the verdict, new and important testimony whereby, he could prove the payment in cattle, as above stated, he had moved for a new trial, which motion had been overruled, He prayed, in his bill, for a new trial at law, or a perpetual injunction. Waggoner answered; admitted his representation as to the speed of the filly; insisted they were true; that she had been tried with Parrot's colt; had and could beat that colt the distance alleged; stated that complainants knew the speed of the filly and her character as well as he did; at the time they purchased her;--he denied having received the whole or any part of the said note from the complainant in cattle; admitted he had received cattle from Ballenger in payment of a debt which Ballenger owed him;-- but denied that he had ever received any cattle from complainant on any account. *2 The cause was tried, and a decree pronounced, perpetuating the injunction. We regret that we can not affirm the decree; for the allegations of the bill are well supported by the proof in the cause. But the rule that where the remedy is ample at law, the chancellor can not interfere, is too inveterate to be gotten over. It is by the observance of this rule, that the boundaries between the two jurisdictions are maintained. It was asserted in the case of Cunningham v. Caldwell, (see Hardin's Rep. 123,) and has been ever since maintained and conformed to by this court. An action at law for deceit in the sale of the filly, would have afforded to the plaintiffs therein, a verdict in damages commensurate with the injury sustained. The plea of accord and satisfaction to the suit upon the note, would, if sustained by proof, have silenced the claim of the plaintiffs therein. The refusal, by the court below, to grant a new trial, can be no ground for chancery interposition, as was decided by this court at the fall term, 1814, in the case of O'Hara v. Ganoe. Where a remedy is ample at law, chancery will not interfere; vd. ant. Keith v. Humphries pa. 13; Carpenter v. Hackley & al. 155; Dewees v. Richardson, fall term, 1818. When a party has been prevented, by the fraud or force of his adversary, or by providential visitation, or other sufficient cause from applying to the court for a new trial before the expiration of the term at which the trial was had, the chancellor will hear his application, and upon the proper case made out, will award him a new trial. But he will not, he can not, revise the opinions of the law-judge. The judge might reciprocate revisals and reversals, with the chancellor, if the latter were to commence that process with the former--the right of each would be equal to that of the other--or rather their destitution of right is the same. It is, therefore, considered by the court, that the decree of the court below be reversed, the cause remanded, with direction to the court to dissolve the injunction and dismiss the bill of complainant with costs, &c.; and it is further ordered, that plaintiffs recover their costs in this court. On a sufficient case made out, chancery will direct a new trial at law, but can not revise the opinion of the law judge. Ky.App. 1819. Waggoner's Trustees v. McKinney 1 A.K.Marsh. 479, 8 Ky. 479, 1819 WL 1054 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
