(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 168,  10 Ky. 168 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1187 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Harrison v. Taylor. Dec. 13, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Covenants 108 k 26 108 Covenants 108II Construction and Operation 108II(A) Covenants in General 108k26 k. Dependent or Independent Covenants. Most Cited  Cases Where there are dependent covenants, a party cannot recover without averring and proving either that he performed, or was ready and willing to perform, his part. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: For and in consideration of three hundred dollars, to be paid by Taylor on the first day of August, 1817, Harrison covenanted to convey to Taylor, on the said first day of August, a lot of ground in the town of Winchester. To obtain compensation for the failure of Harrison in not conveying the lot, Taylor brought this action on the covenant; and after setting forth the deed of covenant, alleged that he, on the 20th of August, 1817, paid the three hundred dollars, stipulated by him to be paid, and charges the breach in Harrison's failure to make the conveyance, &c. To this declaration Harrison pleaded, alleging the non-payment of the three hundred dollars on the first day of August, 1817, &c. And to this plea Taylor demurred, and Harrison having joined in demurrer, the court sustained the demurrer, and rendered judgment against Harrison. If the liability of a defendant depends on an act to be done simultaneously by the plaintiff, no action lies, unless the act has been done or endeavored to have been done, the subsequent performance, though accepted by defendant does not subject defendant to a suit on the original contract. This court can not accord with the circuit court in its decision upon the demurrer. The case of Stutesville against Miles, decided at this term, is decisive against the decision of that court. According to the case cited, as the price was to be paid by Taylor on the first of August, the day on which the conveyance was to be made by Harrison, to authorize a recovery for not conveying, Taylor should have either paid the price on the day, or tendered payment; and the failure to do so, cannot be excused by the allegation of his having thereafter, on a subsequent day, paid the price. 2 Marshall, 425. Instead of sustaining the demurrer of Taylor to the plea of Harrison, therefore, the court should have overruled it on the ground of the declaration not containing the proper averments to maintain the action. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1820. Harrison v. Taylor 3 A.K.Marsh. 168, 10 Ky. 168, 1820 WL 1187 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
