(Cite as: 7 T.B.Mon. 310,  23 Ky. 310 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1202 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Harris v. Smith. Jun. 9, 1828. *1 Motions against Constables. Limitations. Jurisdiction. APPEAL FROM THE FLOYD CIRCUIT; S. W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Courts 106 k 121(4) 106 Courts 106III Courts of General Original Jurisdiction 106III(A) Grounds of Jurisdiction in General 106k119 Amount or Value in Controversy 106k121 Matter in Dispute, or Amount or Value Claimed  or Involved 106k121(4) k. Uniting Separate Demands or Causes  of Action, and Aggregate of Claims by or Against Two or More Parties. Most Cited Cases Where a court has no jurisdiction of a cause of action for money below a certain amount, several substantive causes of action for sums under the jurisdictional amount cannot be united so as to give it jurisdiction. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Facts of the case. Between the years 1817 and 1819, in clusive, Smith placed into the hands of Harris, who was constable of Floyd county, various executions, which issued in his favor against the estate of different persons, from a justice of the peace for that county. Some of the executions were for more, and many others for less, than five pounds each. Some of the executions were never returned to the justice; others were returned by the constable satisfied, and some again were returned, no property found. The returns upon most of the executions bear date more than two years before the 19th of March, 1819; and such as have returns upon them, dated within two years of that time, are for less than five pounds. On the 19th of March, 1819, a notice was drawn up by Smith, addressed to Harris, in which the latter was informed that on a named day of the next term of the Floyd circuit court, the former would move the court for a judgment against him, on accourt of his delinquency in various particulars, as respects the collection and accounting for the amount of the several executions. Notice. The motion was accordingly made, and judgment rendered by the court in favor of Smith, against Harris, for three hundred and seventeen dollars, fifty-six and one-half cents, besides interest and costs. Judgment. Various objections, both as to the sufficiency of the notice, and the correctness of the judgment rendered thereon, were taken in argument, most of which, however, need not be noticed, because, admitting the sufficiency of the notice, it is perfectly clear, that the judgment can not be sustained. Motion can not be maintained against a constable, for failing to return an execution, or pay over the money collected on it, after two years. It was erroneous to render judgment on account of any delinquency, either in the constable, Harris, having failed to return his executions above five pounds within due time, or his having failed to pay the amount collected on those executions, because his delinquency in those respects must have happened more than two years before the date of the notice, and after the lapse of two years, no motion can be sustained against him for such delinquency. *2 And with respect to the executions for less than five pounds, no judgment should have been rendered, not only because some of them were returned, by the constable, more than two years before the date of the notice, but because, for a failure to return those executions in due time, or for not paying over money collected under them, the constable is liable to be proceeded against before the justice who issued the executions, and not to a motion in the circuit court. Circuit courts have not jurisdiction of motions against constables for failing to return executions or pay over money in cases below five pounds. It is true, when added together, the amount of those executions exceed five pounds; but the default in respect to each execution, gave a substantive cause of proceeding before the justice, and it is not by uniting several substantive causes of action, which are cognizable before one tribunal, that the jurisdiction can be translated to another tribunal, which, without such union of causes of action, possessed no cognizance of the matter. Two or more such demands can not be united so as to give the court jurisdiction. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and the motion dismissed with cost. Turner, for appellant; McConnell, for appellee. Ky.App. 1828. Harris v. Smith 7 T.B.Mon. 310, 23 Ky. 310, 1828 WL 1202 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
