(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 10,  8 Ky. 10 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1124 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Henry Woodyard's Heirs v. John Threlkeld. Dec. 2, 1816. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FLEMING CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 379 162 Executors and Administrators 162VIII Sales and Conveyances Under Order of Court 162VIII(C) Sale 162k379 k. Opening or Vacating. Most Cited  Cases An order of the county court directing the sheriff to administer the estate of "Robert W." does not authorize him to sell the estate of "Henry W." Descent and Distribution 124 k 76 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(A) Nature and Establishment of Rights in General 124k73 Title of Heirs or Distributees 124k76 k. Personal Property. Most Cited  Cases An heir has no title sufficient to maintain an action for a slave belonging to the estate, without the assent of the administrator. Evidence 157 k 418 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k418 k. Parties to Instrument or Obligation. Most Cited  Cases Parol evidence is inadmissible to show that "Robert Woodyard," in a record, meant Henry Woodyard. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This action was brought by the appellants as heirs of Henry Woodyard, deceased, to recover a negro woman and her children, which they charge to them belong, and from them the appellee detains. The negro woman is admitted to have belonged to the ancestor of the appellants at his decease; but the appellee asserts a right to her under a sale since made by the sheriff of Mason county. The sale appears to have been made by the sheriff under an order of the county court of Mason, directing him to take the estate of Robert Woodyard, deceased, in his hands, and administer the same; and the only question presented for the decision of this court is, did that order authorize the sheriff to dispose of the negro woman in contest? Without enquiring whether, in any possible state of case, the sheriff would, by the order alluded to, be authorized to sell the estate of the person described by it, upon no principle can it be construed to apply to the estate of the ancestor of the appellants. In terms it applies to the estate of Robert Woodyard, and not Henry; and although by the production of parol evidence, an attempt was made to prove the order was intended to apply to the estate of Henry, that description of evidence was inadmissible to explain away the plain and obvious import of the word.FNa The order then, as it can not be made to apply to the estate of the appellants' ancestor, it can not have given any authority to the sheriff to sell his estate, and consequently the court below should have so instructed the jury. FNa. Peak's Evidence, 28. *2 An order of the county court directing the sheriff to administer the estate of R. W. does not authorise him to sell the estate of H. W. Parol evidence can not be admitted to vary the terms of a record. The judgment of that court must, therefore, be reversed, with cost, the cause remanded, and such further proceedings then had as may be consistent with this opinion. The counsel for the defendant in error having petitioned for, and procured a rehearing, the court, on the 14th October, 1817, by Judge Owsley, delivered the following opinion:-- 14 Oct., 1817. Upon a review of this cause, we are still of opinion the former opinion delivered by this court is correct; but from the pleadings in the cause, it becomes material to decide, whether an heir can, without the previous assent of the administrator, maintain detinue for a slave belonging to the estate of the intestate. That, upon common law principles, an heir can not maintain either trover or detinue, for the recovery of a chattel, there is no doubt; for, as by the grant of administration, all the personal estate vests in the administrator, he alone can maintain an action either to recover the specific chattel, or damages for its conversion. But it is contended, that under the statute making slaves real estate (2 Litt. pa. 120,) the heir gains such a property, in them, immediately upon the decease of the ancestor, as will enable him to maintain an action for their recovery. The heir, it will be admitted, gains an interest in the slaves; but we do not suppose he acquires such a right of property as will authorize him, without the assent of the administrator, either to recover them, or damages for their conversion. From the uniform train of adjudications, both in Virginia, and this country, under the statute in question, making slaves assets in the hands of the administrator, it clearly follows the heirs' title is not, until assented to by the administrator, complete; for, as the administrator is liable to creditors for the value of the slaves, he of necessity must be authorized to convert them into money, and to that end he is entitled to their possession; and consequently he may maintain an action for any injury done to them after the death of the intestate. An heir can not maintain an action in his own name for a slave, without the assent of the exer. or administrator. The interest which an heir gains, under the statute, in the slaves of his ancestor, is very much like that which, at common law, a legatee acquired under the will in a specific legacy. In both cases the property is assets for the payment of debts; in the former case, in the hands of the administrator, and in the latter, in the hands of the executor. In the former case it is incumbent upon the administrator to see that the debts are paid before the slaves are delivered to the heir; and in the latter case, the executor should not deliver the specific legacy until the creditors are satisfied; and when the debts are paid, by a suit in equity, the heir or legatee may obtain the possession of the property, but the property transferred, either to the heir, under the statute or to the legatee, under the will, is of an inchoate character, to be perfected in the former case by the assent of the administrator, and in the latter case by the assent of the executor. *3 Neither can a specific legatee maintain such suit without such assent. But it is contended that the specific legatee may maintain trover, for the conversion of the legacy by a stranger, after the decease of the testator; and hence, it is inferred, that an heir, since the statute, is entitled to a similar remedy, for an injury to the slaves. Upon principle it would seem such an action can not be maintained by the legatee, without the assent of the executor; for, as the law casts the title upon the executor, and gives him a right to the immediate possession, the plain and natural inference is, that the executor, and no other, without his assent, is entitled to the action. And on the score of authority, it is equally clear the legatee can not maintain the action. We are aware, it is said in Bacon's Abridgment, title trover, letter C, page 683, that "If a testator has bequeathed specific goods, the legatee may maintain an action of trover for the conversion thereof by a stranger, although they have not been delivered to him by the executor; because a general property is vested in him immediately upon the death of the testator;" and to prove the position, Broke, title trespass, pl. 25, is cited. From the reason assigned in the case cited, as there is no suggestion negativing the idea, it would seem to follow, that before the legatee could maintain the action, the assent of the executor would be indispensable; for as we have shewn, such an assent is necessary to perfect the legatee's right, until then, he can not gain a general property in the legacy. To ascertain that the case from Bacon should be so understood, we have not had an opportunity of looking into the case cited from Broke; but what is equally satisfactory upon the subject, Chitty, in speaking upon the right of a legatee to sue, says, that "after the assent of the executor he may maintain an action for any injury committed subsequent to the decease of the testator;" and in support of the position, refers to the same case in Broke, which is cited by Bacon. 1 Chitty, pl. 167. These authorities are moreover fortified by Toller, in his law of executors, 307, where he says, that even in the case of a specific legacy, if it be in the hands of the legatee, and the assets fully competent to pay the debts, yet he can not retain it in opposition to the executor; nor has (says the author) such a legatee authority to take possession of the legacy without the executor's assent, although the testator, by his will, expressly directs him to do so. Hence we infer, a specific legatee, according to the doctrine of the common law, does not acquire such a right of property under the will, as enables him to maintain, without the assent of the executor, an action, even against a stranger; and since the statute making slaves real estate, as they are assets in the hands of the administrator, without his assent, we also suppose the heir cannot maintain an action either to recover the slaves from a stranger, or damages for their detention or conversion. *4 If, then, we are correct in the view we have taken of this cause, it results, that the court below improperly overruled the appellee's demurrer to the appellant's replication to his sixth plea. For, as by that plea, the limitation of five years is shewn to have run against the executrix, it is impossible that by any assent of hers the right of suit can be so translated to the heirs, as to enable them, in consequence of their infancy, to save the operation of the limitation. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed, with cost, the cause remanded, and judgment entered in favor of the appellee, upon the demurrer to the replication to his sixth plea, unless the appellants should apply for leave to amend their replication; and such other and further proceedings had as may be consistent with this opinion. Wickliffe, for pltf.; Hardin, for deft. NOTE.--The circumstances of this case occurred before the passage of the act of 1800, chapter 270, 2 Littel, pa. 374; vide post. Iron's Exx. v. Luckey. Ky.App. 1816. Woodyard's Heirs v. Threlkeld 1 A.K.Marsh. 10, 8 Ky. 10, 1817 WL 1124 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
