(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 392,  8 Ky. 392 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1430 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Peter Coleman v. Phoebe Patton, Ex'x. Dec. 1, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bail 49 k 11 49 Bail 49I In Civil Actions 49k9 Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k11 k. Requisites and Validity in General. Most Cited  Cases In a recognizance of special bail taken before a justice of the peace, it is not essential to the liability of the bail that the recognizance be incorporated in the record, as it is sufficient if it be returned and filed among the papers. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Logan. This is an appeal from a judgment rendered against Coleman, upon a demurrer to a scire facias brought by him to have execution of a judgment which he obtained against Broadhead, out of the estate of Patton, in the hands of his executrix, in consequence of Patton having become the special bail to Broadhead. The recognizance of special bail appears to be in the usual form; but it is contended that it does not appear to have been taken by a person authorized to take such acknowledgments, and moreover, if it were, yet as it is in nowise entered upon, or incorporated in the record of the suit against Broadhead, it is urged, that the bail ought not to be subjected to the execution. The action, in which the bail appears to have been taken was depending in the supreme court for the then district of Kentucky, and as the recognizance was acknowledged before a justice of the peace, there is no doubt but, according to the act of the Virginia legislature of 1761, (Pleasant's revision, 113), it was taken by a person of competent authority. In a recognizance of special bail, taken before a justice of the peace, it is not essential to the liability of the bail, that the recognizance should be incorporated in the record, it is enough if it bereturned and filed among the papers. 1 Lit. 494. Acts of 1796, chapt. 264, sec. 13. And as by the same act, no entry of the recognizance so taken is required to be made in the suit to which it relates, but to the contrary, from the circumstance of the act barely directing the recognizance to be transmitted to the clerk of the court to be filed with the papers, such an entry, most probably, was not intended to be required, we are of opinion the bail, notwithstanding the recognizance is not incorporated in the record of the proceedings against Broadhead may be made subject to the execution of Coleman. The judgment of the circuit court most, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Littell, for appellant. Ky.App. 1818. Coleman v. Patton 1 A.K.Marsh. 392, 8 Ky. 392, 1818 WL 1430 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
