(Cite as: 4 Bibb 70,  7 Ky. 70 (Ky.),  1815 WL 663 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Grider v. Graham. May 27, 1815. *1 If A makes a voluntaryconveyance to B, for the purpose of delaying and hindering creditors, a Court of Equity will not at the instance of A relieve against the deed, nor enforce the secret trust between A and B. West Headnotes Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 176(3) 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186II Rights and Liabilities of Parties and Purchasers 186II(A) Original Parties 186k173 Mutual Rights and Liabilities of Parties 186k176 Enforcement of Executory  Contract 186k176(3) k. Enforcement of Trust for Grantor.  Most Cited Cases A secret trust will not be enforced in favor of a fraudulent grantor. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an appeal from a decree of the Court below sustaining the appellee's demurrer and dismissing the appellant's bill, brought to obtain the reconveyance of a tract of land which had been previously conveyed by the appellant to the appellee. The bill alleges that the appellant having become involved in his circumstances, to secure the payment of debts which he was owing the appellee, he executed to him a deed of trust upon the tract of land in question; that some time thereafter, apprehending his other creditors would, as they threatened to do so, force a sale of the land, he made an absolute conveyance thereof to the appellee, at six dollars per acre, but that it was upon a secret trust, and the appellant was to be permitted to redeem the land upon the terms suggested in the bill. If all of the allegations of the appellant's bill be taken as true, and that they must be so taken in this contest there is no doubt, it is manifest the absolute conveyance made to the appellee was designed by the appellant to hinder and delay his creditors in the collection of their just debts, and as to them would be deemed fraudulent. Were those creditors, therefore, complainants seeking the aid of equity against that conveyance, there would be no doubt but that under the present state of case they would be entitled to relief. But with respect to the appellant, as he voluntarily gave the conveyance with the fraudulent intent to prejudice the rights of his creditors, the deed as to him is irrevocable, and at his instance cannot be relieved against. The decree of the Court below must therefore be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Grider v. Graham 4 Bibb 70, 7 Ky. 70, 1815 WL 663 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
