(Cite as: 5 Litt. 271,  15 Ky. 271 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1424 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Gowan, &c. v. The Bank of Kentucky. Jun. 1, 1824. *1 FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Partnership 289 k 146(1) 289 Partnership 289IV Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 289IV(A) Representation of Firm by Partner 289k146 Negotiable Instruments 289k146(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Where a partner indorses a note in the firm name, and it is discounted by a bank on their credit, it is binding on all the partners. Bills and Notes 56 k 395 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k393 Necessity of Demand for Payment and Notice of Nonpayment 56k395 k. Nature of instrument or obligation. Most Cited  Cases Demand and notice of non-payment are essential to fix the liability of indorsers, unless waived. Bills and Notes 56 k 420 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k411 Sufficiency of Notice of Nonpayment and of Protest 56k420 k. Mode of giving or service in general. Most Cited  Cases Proof that notice was put into the post office at the time when the note was dishonored, without showing to whom it was addressed, or whether it was directed to the county in which the indorsers resided, is insufficient to charge them. Bills and Notes 56 k 491 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k490 Presumptions and Burden of Proof 56k491 k. In general. Most Cited Cases In an action of debt by an indorsee against the indorsers of a negotiable note, it is not necessary to prove the handwriting of the indorsers. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 696.1 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIII Dismissal 307AIII(B) Involuntary Dismissal 307AIII(B)6 Proceedings and Effect 307Ak696 Vacating or Setting Aside  Dismissal 307Ak696.1 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 128k81(8)  Dismissal and Nonsuit) Where the court erroneously directs a nonsuit, the cause may be reinstated during the term, without requiring the payment of costs. MONROE for appellants; WICKLIFFE, TRIPLETT and CRITTENDEN for appellees. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action of debt, brought by the bank against M'Gowan and Stockton, upon their endorsement on a note which was executed to them by John A. Turner, negotiable and payable in the Lexington branch, and which was endorsed in the name of the firm of M'Gowan and Stockton, to the bank. In an action of debt against the endorsers of a negotiable note discounted at bank, it is not necessary to prove their handwriting. M'Gowan and Stockton pleaded jointly nil debet, and M'Gowan pleaded separately non est factum, to the endorsement. A trial was had upon both issues, and under instructions which were given by the court to the jury, a verdict was found for the bank. M'Gowan and Stockton then moved the court for a new trial, but the motion was overruled and judgment rendered for the bank. *2 If a court erroneously directs a non-suit, the cause may be properly reinstated during the term, without requiring the payment of costs. Prior, however, to this verdict and judgment, and before the plea of M'Gowan denying the endorsement was put in, a trial was had upon the plea of nil debet, and in consequence of an opinion which the court gave to the jury, the bank suffered a nonsuit. But upon further reflection the court changed its opinion, and on a subsequent day of the same term, an order was made setting aside the nonsuit, and reinstating the cause upon the docket, without requiring the bank to pay costs. If one partner endorses a note in the name of a firm, and it is discounted by the bank upon their credit, it is binding on all the partners. The propriety of setting aside the nonsuit without the payment of costs, is first questioned by the assignment of errors. The opinion which the court gave to the jury, was undoubtedly incorrect. By that opinion the jury were instructed, that to enable the bank to recover, evidence of the hand writing of the endorsers, must be produced, contrary to the decision of this court in the case of Dodge, &c. v. the Bank of Kentucky, 2 Marshall 610. Having erred, therefore, in its instruction to the jury, it was perfectly correct for the court, during the same term, to relieve the bank against the effect of that error, by setting aside the nonsuit without requiring the payment of costs. The maker of the note failing to make payment, the endorsers can not be made liable, unless they have due notice. The assignment of errors also questions the correctness of the instructions which the court gave on the last trial. Those instructions relate to the issue taken to the plea of M'Gowan, which denies the endorsement, and according to our understanding of the bill of exceptions, the instructions are fully supported by the decision in the case of the  Bank of Kentucky v. Brooking and Clark, 2 Litt. Rep. 41. In that case, as in this, the note was endorsed by one only of two partners in the name of the firm, and in both cases the notes were discounted by the bank upon the credit of the endorsers, and the money advanced by the bank to the makers of the notes. In that case, the endorsement by one of the partners in the name of the firm, was decided to be binding upon both of the partners, and in this case we understand the instructions of the court not to go further. The instructions are somewhat ambiguously expressed; but we understand them in substance to import a decision that the endorsement which was made in the name of the firm, by Stockton, one of the company of M'Gowan and Stockton, who are proved to be partners in trade, is binding upon both of the partners, and makes them liable to the bank without proof of the particular terms of their co-partnership. Proof that a notice was put into the post-office at the town where the note was discounted, without showing to whom it was addressed, or whether it was directed to the county in which they reside, is insufficient to charge them. *3 It is also assigned for error, that the court erred in not awarding a new trial. Upon the failure of the maker of the note to make payment, it was undoubtedly incumbent upon the bank in due and proper time to notify the endorsers, thereof, if it intended to look to them for payment. This they might have done, either by putting into the post-office at Lexington, in due time, a notice addressed to the endorsers, in the county of their residence, or by delivering notice to them through any other channel in proper time. But after the most careful examination of the evidence contained in the record, we are totally unable to discover the evidence from which the jury could have inferred the fact of notice having been given to the endorsers in either way. It is true, we are told that a notice was put into the post-office at Lexington in proper time; but we are not told to whom it was addressed, nor are we informed whether it was sent to the county in which the endorsers resided. Evidence of this sort is clearly insufficient to authorize the finding of a verdict against the endorsers, and upon the ground of the verdict being against evidence, a new trial ought to have been awarded by the court below. Judgment reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and a new trial there awarded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1824. McGowan v. Bank of Kentucky 5 Litt. 271, 15 Ky. 271, 1824 WL 1424 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
