(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 194,  9 Ky. 194 (Ky.),  1820 WL 983 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Pettis v. Samuel H. Smith. Apr. 10, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE GAR-RARD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 1003 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(I) Questions of Fact, Verdicts, and Findings 30XVI(I)2 Verdicts 30k1003 k. Against weight of evidence. Most Cited  Cases A verdict or finding by the jury will not be disturbed as against the evidence because of a mere preponderance of evidence against it, but will be set aside only when it is palpably against the weight of evidence, or clearly shows that the jury were mistaken, or were influenced by passion, prejudice, or corruption. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 68 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak68 k. Notice of taking. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k56(6)  Depositions) Where the defendant is a nonresident, notice to his attorney is sufficient. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment rendered against Pettis, upon a verdict found against him in an action of debt, brought by him against Smith in the circuit court. The statute regulating the mode of taking depositions v. non-residents, requires publication only in cases where the non-resident has no agent or attorney at law in the county--notice to the attorney at law is good. To justify a court to award a new trial because the verdict is contrary to the evidence, the verdict must clearly be so; circumstances raising a suspicion that justice has not been done, will not authorize a new trial. It is assigned for error:--1. The court erred in permitting the deposition of Geo. S. Bush to be read as evidence to the jury:--2. The court erred in refusing a new trial. The deposition was objected to on the ground, that, as Pettis was a non-resident, the notice of the time of taking the deposition, instead of being given to the attorney at law, should have been published in some authorized paper according to the provisions of the law on that subject. Upon adverting to the statute regulating the taking of depositions in such cases, we are, however, satisfied, that the publication of notice is only required where the plaintiff has no agent or attorney in the county, to whom notice can be given; but where there is such an agent or attorney, notice to him is sufficient to authorize the reading of the deposition in evidence. The new trial was asked for on the ground of the verdict being against evidence. To have authorized the court to award a new trial, the verdict should have been clearly against the evidence; but upon looking into the record we are unable to perceive any thing which can warrant such an inference. There are circumstances calculated to excite suspicion that justice may not have been done, but there is nothing which can authorize us to say the verdict is against evidence. The judgment must be affirmed. Bibb, for plaintiff in error. Ky.App. 1820. Pettis v. Smith 2 A.K.Marsh. 194, 9 Ky. 194, 1820 WL 983 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
