(Cite as: 3 Bibb 448,  6 Ky. 448 (Ky.),  1814 WL 822 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mason v. Mason's executors. Oct. 12, 1814. West Headnotes Slaves 356 k 22 356 Slaves 356k22 k. Manumission. Most Cited Cases A. directed, by his will, all his slaves to be hired out for a particular purpose, and then emancipated.  Held, that this direction did not apply to slaves acquired after the making of the will. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 CHARLES MASON, in 1804, made his will, and after directing his debts and funeral expenses to be paid, bequeathed to his wife Polly Mason 1500 pounds, his black mere and his household furniture; and by a further bequest ordered that all his slaves, fifteen in number, should be hired out until the sum given to his wife should be raised, after the sale of his stock of all kinds and personal estate to the best advantage, and then he willed the said slaves, describing them specially by name, and their offspring, to be free. After making this will the testator purchased two slaves, Charles and Harry; and the only point presented for the determination of this Court is, do these after purchased slaves pass by the will? We are of opinion they do not. It is true had the testator intended to dispose of all the slaves of which he might be possessed at his death, and had used language by which that intention would be inferred, the slaves in question would pass by the will. But notwithstanding he might have disposed of those slaves, from a correct construction of the will we think it manifest he did not intend to dispose of such as he might thereafter acquire. He certainly did not intend the legacy given to his wife should be raised out of the sale of such slaves; for when speaking on that subject, he directs the legacy to be raised by the sale of his stock of all kinds and personal estate, and the hire of his negroes, which he thereafter in his will emancipated; and it cannot be supposed he intended slaves to be embraced in the expression personal estate, when in other parts of his will he uses different expressions in disposing of his slaves. And it is moreover evident the slaves in question are not included in the provision of the will whereby the testator emancipates his slaves; for in that provision the slaves intended to be emancipated are described as being fifteen in number, and specially named. There is then no special provision in the will wherein those slaves can by any fair construction be included, and there is no general provision from which the testator's intention to dispose of them can possibly be inferred. They must therefore be considered as part of the testator's estate undisposed of by his will, and consequently must descend as if no will had been made. Slaves purchased after a will is made do not pass by it, unless it appears by the will that the testator intended to dispose of all the slaves of which ??e might be possessed at his death; they descend as if no will had been made, and the executors have no power to sell such slaves for the payment of debts. Sale made when unnecessary for payment of debts, and to one of the executors, unauthorized. The bill of the appellants, therefore, who claimed the negroes as the heirs at law to the testator, should have been sustained, unless their right to relief is repelled by some latent equity on the part of the appellees. This, however, from anything apparent in the cause is not shown. It is clear from the admissions contained in the appellees' answer, that a sale of the negroes in question was not necessary for the purpose of paying the testator's debts. The executors, therefore, in selling the negroes exceeded the authority given them by the will, and violated the express provisions of the law: and as one of the executors was the purchaser of the negroes at the illegal sale so made by the executors, it is clear the appellants' right to the negroes cannot be prejudiced thereby. It results then that the appellants are entitled to the negroes and compensation for their services during the time they have been withheld by the executors, and that the decree of the Court below should have been made accordingly. *2 The decree of that Court must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to that Court and a decree there entered according to the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Mason v. Mason's Ex'rs 3 Bibb 448, 6 Ky. 448, 1814 WL 822 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
