(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 235,  8 Ky. 235 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1329 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. George Stephenson, v. Edmund M. Taylor. Jun. 9, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 461(5) 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(B) Jurisdiction and Proceedings 228k461 Evidence 228k461(5) k. Sufficiency as to Fraud, Perjury, Collusion,  or Other Misconduct. Most Cited Cases Defendant obtained against plaintiff a judgment at law for the purchase money of land. Plaintiff thereupon brought a bill for an injunction, charging defendant with fraudulently misrepresenting the tract to contain 50 acres, when in fact it contained but 35 acres.  Held that, in the absence of testimony to show that the tract did not in fact contain the quantity of acres represented by the defendant, the bill should be dismissed. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: * Absent Judge Logan. Stephenson having obtained against Taylor a judgment at law, Taylor exhibited his bill in equity, with injunction, for the purpose of being relieved from the payment of part thereof, in consequence, as he charges, of a fraud committed upon him by Stephenson, in representing the tract of land, purchased by him of Stephenson, and which forms the consideration of the obligation upon which the judgment is founded, to contain fifty acres, when, as he alleges, the tract, in fact, contains but thirty-five acres. The cause having come on to a final hearing, and the court being of opinion Taylor ought to be released, pronounced a decree making the injunction perpetual for $255, and compelling Stephenson to pay cost. The evidence in the cause is satisfactory to shew that Stephenson represented the tract to contain fifty acres, so that if proof had been made of the tract not containing that quantity of acres, there could exist no difficulty in compelling Stephenson to make compensation for the deficit. On a misre-presentation of the quantity contained in a tract of land sold, chancery will injoin quoad the deficit (if that deficit appears) and not force the injured party to law. But upon adverting to the evidence and exhibits in the cause, it will be perceived, that Taylor has totally failed to shew, either by a survey, or the testimony of any witnesses that the tract does not, in fact, contain the quantity of acres represented by Stephenson; and as Stephenson has not admitted the tract to contain less, but alleges an ignorance of the true quantity, in the absence of proof shewing a deficit, it was improper to make a decree against him. The decree of the court below must therefore be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and the injunction dissolved, and the bill dismissed with cost. Wickliffe for plaintiff in error. Ky.App. 1818. Stephenson v. Taylor 1 A.K.Marsh. 235, 8 Ky. 235, 1818 WL 1329 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
