(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 522,  10 Ky. 522 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1158 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Graham v. Thomas Price et al. Jun. 10, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FLOYD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 84 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k84 k. Conformity to Judgment. Most Cited Cases Where an execution varied from the judgment by adding to the description of the premises, "whereon S. and family resided," the variance was immaterial, and did not vitiate the levy, since it sufficiently conformed to the judgment to show on what judgment it was issued. Execution 161 k 88 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k86 Directions as to Property to Be Taken 161k88 k. Personal or Real Property. Most Cited  Cases Where a writ of restitution was sufficient to show on what judgment it was issued, the fact that the clerk, in addition to the description of the land contained in the judgment, inserted in the execution that the judgment was rendered on land on which the defendant resided, was immaterial, and did not invalidate the levy. Execution 161 k 161 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k159 Quashing or Vacating Writ 161k161 k. Grounds. Most Cited Cases A variance between a judgment and the recitation of the same in the execution, which is immaterial and does not prejudice the debtor, is not ground for quashing the writ. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Graham sued out, from a justice of the peace, a warrant against Price for forcibly entering and detaining one house and field, lying on the Louisa fork of Sandy river, and caused such proceedings to be had thereon, as finally, in the circuit court, to recover judgment of restitution against Price. On the application of Graham the clerk issued an execution, therein reciting-- "Whereas Thomas Price, lately in our Floyd circuit court, hath been found guilty of a forcible entry and detainer in one house and field, lying on Sandy river, whereon Jacob Syck and family resides, to the injury of John Graham," & c., and commanding the sheriff to deliver to Graham the possession, &c. This writ was returned executed by the sheriff, and at a subsequent term of the court, Price and Syck moved the court to quash the writ and award them a writ of restitution, on the grounds of a variance between the writ and judgment recovered by Graham, and the court accordingly quashed the writ, and ordered the possession to be restored to Price and Syck--from that decision Graham has appealed. This court is of opinion that the court erred both in quashing the writ and ordering restitution to be made to Price and Syck. The writ of restitution has not recited the judgment with as much precision as might, possibly, have been observed, but it is not essential to the validity of an execution that the utmost possible strictness should be observed in reciting the judgment. It is sufficient that the execution conforms substantially to the judgment, and in the present case it is impossible to compare the execution with the judgment, and not be convinced that it issued on the judgment which Graham had recovered against Price. It is true the judgment contains no suggestion of Syck and his family being on the land, whereas the writ of restitution states that Syck and his family resides on the land; but that statement is barely an additional description of the land which the sheriff was commanded to restore to Graham, and could not confer upon the sheriff any authority to deliver possession of lands not recovered by Graham in the judgment against Price. *2 A variance between a judgment and execution, in an immaterial point, will not vitiate, it, it is sufficient, if the conformity is sufficiently intimated to shew the execution issued on the judgment. Without that statement in the writ, the sheriff might have dispossessed Syck, if Syck obtained the possession from Price after the commencement of the warrant for the forcible entry and detainer, and with the statement, Syck could not regularly be dispossessed unless his possession was so obtained. As neither Price nor Syck could, therefore, be anywise prejudiced by the variance, the writ of restitution should not, on that ground, have been quashed. And it is equally clear that the court erred in ordering the possession to be restored to Price and Syck. Although the judgment is sufficient to support the writ, it would have been proper to restore the possession to Syck, if he had shewn that he was not liable to the process against Price, but this he has not done, and on the contrary, Graham, on the trial of the motion, proved that the land whereon Syck resided was the same for which he recovered the judgment of restitution. The judgment of the circuit court in quashing the writ of restitution and in ordering restitution to be made to Price and Graham must, therefore, be reversed with cost, and the cause remanded and the motion of Price and Syck overruled with cost. Bibb, for appellant. Ky.App. 1821. Graham v. Price 3 A.K.Marsh. 522, 10 Ky. 522, 1821 WL 1158 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 199 END OF DOCUMENT
