(Cite as: 4 Bibb 330,  7 Ky. 330 (Ky.),  1816 WL 750 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Duncan v. Pindell. May 21, 1816. *1 The indorser of a note, who is released, is a competent witness between the assignee and the maker of the note. That the witness so released felt himself bound in honor to pay the assignee in case he did not recover of the maker of the note, does not render him incompetent; so also if he declares himself bound in honor to pay the maker if he is cast in this action. Although one who gives currency to a note by his name cannot be received as a witness to invalidate it, yet the rule does not apply to render the witness incompetent to depose as to subsequent facts, unless he be interested. West Headnotes Witnesses 410 k 113 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k113 k. Release or Substitution of or Indemnity  Against Liability. Most Cited Cases In a suit by the indorsee of a note against the maker, who pleaded accord and satisfaction, the indorsee introduced the indorser to prove that the accord and satisfaction were not made before notice of the indorsement. The indorsee had executed a release of the indorser, but the indorser, being examined on his voir dire, said that he felt bound in honor to compensate the indorsee in case he did not recover, and also that, if the maker had the demand to pay, he expected to reimburse him. Held, that he was a competent witness. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS suit was brought in the Court below by Pindell upon a promissory note executed by Duncan to David Williamson. The trial was had in that Court on an issue to a plea of accord and satisfaction, alleged to have been made by Duncan with Williamson before notice of the assignment to Pindell. To prove the accord and satisfaction was not made before notice, Pindell introduced Williamson, and before he was examined, tendered to him a release discharging and acquitting him of all accountability on account of the assignment. Notwithstanding this, however, at the instance of Duncan, Williamson was sworn on his voire dire, and upon his examination said he had known nothing of the release until it was tendered to him; and although in legal estimation he might in consequence thereof be discharged from any liability, yet he felt himself in honor bound to compensatc Pindell if he should fail to recover of Duncan; and that furthermore he observed, if Duncan had the demand to pay he expected to reimburse him, and that he did not think himself interested in either way. The admission of Williamson's evidence in chief was however objected to by Duncan, but the Court overruled the objection and permitted the evidence to go to the jury; and whether the evidence should have been excluded, is the only question presented for the determination of this Court. In whatever point of view this case may be considered, we are of opinion the evidence of Williamson was clearly admissible. He having put his name upon the note by indorsing it, certainly cannot render him incompetent for the purpose he was introduced; for although, according to the opinion of some judges, instruments of writing are not allowed to be invalidated by the evidence of those who have put their names to them; according to the opinion of none is such evidence inadmissible to prove a fact subsequently intervening, unless on account of his interest the witness is incompetent. *2 Because of his interest Williamson was certainly not incompetent; for whatever might have been his situation in that respect, when he was called upon to give evidence, the release which was then given by removing his liability as assignor, most clearly restored his competency.--Peek's Evid. 166. The circumstance of his supposing after the release was executed, that he was under honorary obligations to Pindell, cannot affect the case; for as by tendering the release, Pindell did everything in his power to take away the interest of Williamson, even a refusal by him to accept it, much less a notion of honorary obligation, could not have prevented his examination.--Peek's Evid. 158. But if such an idea of accountability could under different circumstances render the witness incompetent, as in this case he supposed himself equally liable to each party, he must be indifferent between them, and as such an admissible witness. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. Duncan v. Pindell 4 Bibb 330, 7 Ky. 330, 1816 WL 750 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
