(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 507,  8 Ky. 507 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1063 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Howell Cobb v. Geo. Thompson, et e. contra. May 26, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE MERCER CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 934(1) 228 Judgment 228XXI Actions on Judgments 228XXI(B) Foreign Judgments 228k934 Time to Sue and Limitations 228k934(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The law of another state limiting the time when payment of a judgment may be compelled is no defense for a resident defendant, who after service of process and before judgment, has removed from that state to Kentucky. Judgment 228 k 935 228 Judgment 228XXI Actions on Judgments 228XXI(B) Foreign Judgments 228k935 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases Where the assignor of a judgment rendered in another state, against a citizen of Kentucky, is dead, the assignee may sue thereon in his own name, if there be no administrator in Kentucky. Judgment 228 k 935 228 Judgment 228XXI Actions on Judgments 228XXI(B) Foreign Judgments 228k935 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases The assignee of a judgment rendered in another state against a citizen of Kentucky may maintain an action thereon in the name of the assignor. Debtor and Creditor 117T k 11 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk11 k. Creditors' Suit. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 109k23  Creditors' Suit) Limitation of Actions 241 k 84(2) 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(E) Absence, Nonresidence, and Concealment of Person or Property 241k84 Absence at Time of Accrual of Cause of  Action 241k84(2) k. Person Liable in General. Most Cited  Cases In a suit in equity to enforce payment of a judgment obtained in another state, where an action on it might be barred, the statute will not be a defense when the judgment debtor removed from such state before the judgment was obtained. Public Lands 317 k 151(.5) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(.5) k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 317k151) A patent having issued to the assignor of an entry, he is to be considered as trustee for the assignee, and, if the trustee parts with the title, he is responsible to the cestui que trust, unless he parts with the title by force of a decree, in which case the cestui que trust may claim the property, but cannot have a decree against the trustee. Assignments 38 k 127 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k127 k. Jurisdiction and Venue. Most Cited Cases Even though the assignor could not have sued in equity, the assignee may do so where the assignor had died, and the administrator was a nonresident, so that the assignee could not maintain a suit at law in the name of any living person within the jurisdiction. Debtor and Creditor 117T k 11 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk11 k. Creditors' Suit. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 109k19  Creditors' Suit) One who obtained an equitable interest in a judgment by assignment may enforce payment thereof in a court of equity, when the assignor is dead, and there is no person in whose name an action at law can be maintained. Equity 150 k 418 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k417 Decree Pro Confesso 150k418 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited  Cases A decree upon a bill taken pro confesso upon publication, without personal service, is no evidence of the allegations of the bill in any collateral proceeding. Interest 219 k 22(1) 219 Interest 219I Rights and Liabilities in General 219k22 Judgments 219k22(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Equity will not, in general, decree interest upon a judgment, unless founded upon a debt with a penalty, or which, by operation of law, bears interest. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Rowan. *2 This suit was brought in equity by Cobb for the purpose of coercing payment of a judgment recovered by John Cobb, in the state of Virginia, against Thompson, and by John Cobb assigned to the complainant, Howel Cobb. The judgment was obtained by John Cobb upon a contract entered into in 1782, and assigned by him to Howel Cobb in 1804, and the suit was commenced by Howel in September, 1811. Upon a final hearing, the court below decreed that Thompson should pay the amount of the judgment recovered in Virginia, without interest; but both parties being dissatisfied, each appealed to this court. Various objections are taken to the relief sought by Howel Cobb; but the first which seems properly to demand the attention of this court, involves the propriety of his applying to a court of equity for relief. It is contended, that as the judgment in favor of John Cobb created a legal right, he could have had no other than a legal remedy, at law, to enforce its payment; and although by his assignment the beneficial interest passed to Howel Cobb, it is urged, that the assignment, whilst it authorized the assignee to use the name of the assignor, it conferred upon him no right to any other remedy than such as might have been pursued by the assignor, John Cobb. Whether or not the naked circumstance of John Cobb's assignment, per se, gave to Howel Cobb a right of applying to equity to obtain satisfaction of the judgment, need not, in the present instance, be decided. For be that as it may, we have no doubt, but under the circumstances of this case, Howel Cobb properly applied to a court of equity for relief. An assignee of a judgment procured in a sister State, against a citizen of this State, may use the name of the assignor to enforce payment; but if the assignor be dead, the assignee may apply to chancery in his own name, if there be no ex administrator or executor in this state--the assignee will not be compelled to administer. As by the assignment he gained an equity in the judgment only, he certainly could not have maintained an action at law in his own name; and although he may have been authorized by the assignment to use the name of John Cobb, yet as John Cobb appears to have previously departed this life, no action could have been brought in his name; and if the assignment could have authorized the assignee to use the name of John Cobb's legal represen atives, as this suit was brought before the passage of the act of January, 1812 (session acts of 1811, 105,) it is plain that no action could then have been commenced in the name of the person to whom administration of ??h estate of John Cobb had been granted by the court in the state of Georgia. There was, therefore, no person in whose name an action at law could have been maintained, and being no such person, it certainly can not have been improper for Howel Cobb to assert his equity, deduced through the assignment, in a court of chancery. He might, it is true, by administering upon the estate of John Cobb in this country, have been authorized, in the character of administrator, to sue at law upon the judgment, but being entitled to the equitable interest, no reason is perceived, why he should be subjected to the burthen and expense of an administration, merely to enable him to resort to a court of law instead of a court of equity. *3 But if it be proper for a court of equity to take cognizance of the case, it is contended, that Howel Cobb has not shewn himself entitled to relief. For it is alleged, that Thompson was in fact owing John Cobb nothing when the judgment was obtained against him; and it is insisted, that upon the principles upon which equity acts, it will never aid in the enforcement of an unjust demand. That in a proceeding at law, the judgment in Virginia, as it was obtained after the service of process, would, under the constitution and laws of the United States, be conclusive between the parties, there is no doubt, but whether it should be so regarded by a court of equity when applied to for the purpose of enforcing its payment, we have not deemed it material to enquire; for if not conclusive, the judgment, most clearly, prima facie, imports a just demand; and as there is no evidence in the present case calculated to repel that presumption, John Cobb, in whose favor it was rendered, must be considered as having a perfect right to its amount. But as that judgment appears to have been rendered more than ten years before the commencement of this suit in the court below, it is also contended, that according to a statute of the Virginia legislature, limiting the time of bringing actions upon judgments, the suit of Howel Cobb ought not, by the courts of this country, to be sustained. The statute alluded to having been enacted since the separation of this state from Virginia, certainly can not be regarded as the law of this country; but if, as the judgment against Thompson was obtained in that state whilst the statute was in force there, it were proper to apply the statute in a proceeding upon the judgment here, till we should have no doubt but, as Thompson is shewn to have removed from that state before the judgment was obtained, he can not, and ought not, to be protected by any thing contained in the statute. The law of a sister State, limiting the time when payment of a judgment shall be compelled, can not be relied on by a resident defendant, who, after service of process, and before judgment, has removed from that state to this. Having thus shewn that the objections taken to the justice of the demand asserted by Cobb, and the time of commencing his suit, are unavailing, we are led to examine the efficacy of a claim asserted by Thompson, and insisted upon by him as a set-off against the judgment obtained in Virginia. In May, 1780, John Cobb entered 1,000 acres of land upon a treasury warrant, adjoining Edward Travis' entry on the east side of a branch of the Ohio, four miles below the mouth of Licking above, and extending southward and eastward for quantity. And thereafter, by an endorsement upon the entry, subscribed with his name, made an assignment in the following words, &c.: "I assign the within entry of one thousand acres of land to Thomas Sewel, for value received, this 19th November, 1781. In case the full quantity shall not be to be had at the very spot within mentioned, the quantity is to be made up with land equal in quality, within four miles of the place within mentioned, I oblige myself, my heirs, executors and administrators and assigns, to comply with the above, or pay the said Thomas Sewel ten thousand pounds specie, &c." *4 And in October, 1783, the said Sewel, by a further endorsement, made the following assignment:--"I assign the within to George Thompson, for value received." These assignments are contended by Thompson to have imposed an obligation upon John Cobb, to convey to him a good title to the one thousand acres of land contained in the entry, but by his answer, which he exhibits in the nature of a cross bill, he alleges, that instead of Cobb's complying with his obligation, he had previously bound himself to convey to James Knox one-half of the land for his services in locating the same; and by a subsequent contract with James Taylor, for other services to be performed by him, agreed to convey one moiety of the other half, to him; and that Taylor having also become invested with Knox's interest, brought suit in the Pendleton circuit court against the heirs of the said John Cobb, (he having previously departed this life, insolvent), and has actually obtained a decree and conveyance for three-fourths of the land included in the entry. The circumstances, thus detailed, Thompson contends, demonstrates an unquestionable right in him to compensation, and for so much as he ought to be compensated, insists, should be set off against the judgment obtained in the state of Virginia. In the consideration of the question of set off, it must be recollected that, from the exhibits and evidence in the cause, Howel Cobb is shewn to be a bona fide assignee for a valuable consideration of the demand upon Thompson. But although such an assignee, it will be conceded, that Thompson should not be precluded, in the present contest, from availing himself of any equity which he may have had against John Cobb, before notice of the assignment to Howel, and which might, in a proceeding by John, have been successfully opposed to his right of recovery. A debtor entitled to a set-off, may assert that right against an assignee, if it accrued before notice of the assignment, even though the claim grows out of a distinct matter. We are, however, unable to perceive any thing in this cause calculated to shew such an equity in the claim asserted by Thompson. The endorsement on the entry to Sewel, so far from implying an undertaking on the part of Cobb to procure the patent and convey the land, most obviously must, by assigning the entry, have been intended to pass a vested right, in Sewel, and thereby enable him, in his own name, to make the survey and obtain the grant from the commonwealth. The assignor of an entry is not bound to survey and patent the land; that duty devolves on the assignee, who may procure the patent in his own name. It is true, by a clause in the assignment, Cobb is bound, in case the true quantity of acres could not be had according to the entry, to make up the quantity elsewhere; but that clause, upon no fair construction, can change the nature of the interest which passed to Sewel by the assignment--it, at most, imposed but an additional obligation upon Cobb, to secure to Sewel the full quantity of acres called for in the entry. *5 If, as is alleged by Thompson, Cobb, by a contract made before the assignment to Sewell, has, in consequence thereof, been prevented from obtaining the title thereto; as well from the nature and import of the general assignment to Sewel, as under the stipulation for the full quantity of acres contained in the entry, Cobb is, most clearly, accountable. And that accountability, although it must have arisen out of a transaction totally distinct from that upon which the judgment in Virginia was obtained, yet, as it must have accrued, if at all, before the assignment to Howel Cobb, and as John Cobb is shewn to have been then insolvent, if sufficiently established, it forms an equity which might not only be opposed to the judgment in a proceeding by John Cobb, but which should also be availing in a suit in chancery by his assignee. The record, however, we are of opinion, furnishes no legitimate evidence of Cobb's having contracted with Knox for any part of the land. The only circumstance in the record conducing to shew such a contract is contained in the copy of the record of the Pendleton circuit court, in a suit brought by Taylor against the heirs of John Cobb, (of whom Howel Cobb is one) for the purpose of obtaining a title to part of the land. By that transcript, Taylor appears to have obtained a decree and conveyance for three-fourths of the land, and two-fourths thereof he appears, by his bill, to have asserted claim to, through a contract alleged to have been made by John Cobb with Knox. But that decree, as it was obtained by taking the bill for confessed upon publication, without personal service of process, although competent evidence of a decree and conveyance in favor of Taylor, ought not, and can not, in a collateral proceeding like the present, be received as evidence of a contract having been made between John Cobb and Knox. A decree taken by publication v. an absent defendant is not evidence of the truth of the statements of the bill in any collateral contest. Thompson is certainly not bound by that decree, and the defendants there, as seven years have not yet elapsed since the decree was pronounced, may, by appearing and answering the bill of Taylor, throw him upon the proof of its allegations; and as Howel Cobb has not admitted, but taken issue in this case on the allegations upon which that decree can alone be supported, he should not, in the present contest, be considered as occupying more unfavorable ground, than he would do in that case, after an appearance and denial of the charges in the bill. If, then, we are correct in supposing that the transcript in that case furnishes no evidence of the alleged contract with Knox, it follows, also, that Thompson has failed to shew that the other fourth, for which Taylor obtained a decree, had been sold by John Cobb. The letter of Howel Cobb, relied upon to prove the contract with Taylor, and which is exhibited in the record, is certainly not calculated to produce the result. *6 That letter appears to have been written in answer to a previous one received from Taylor, and contains an extract from a letter of John Cobb to Howel Cobb; but giving that extract its full weight, it cannot be construed to invest Taylor with any interest in the entry of 1,000 acres. That entry, as we have already seen, had been previously sold and transferred by John Cobb to Sewel; and the letter was, obviously, intended only to make Taylor interested in such entries as Cobb was then the owner of. Thompson, then, neither on account of the alleged contract with Knox, nor that with Taylor, has shewn any equity which would, even in a contest with John Cobb, have been applied to an extinguishment of the judgment. Nor do we suppose that either under the assignment to Sewel or the decree subsequently pronounced in favor of Taylor, Thompson has manifested such an equity as will be availing against the assignee, Howel Cobb. As the assignment passed a vested right, and authorized Sewel to make the survey and obtain the patent in his own name, it evidently cannot have imposed an obligation upon Cobb either to perfect the title or make a conveyance. A patent having issued on an assigned entry to the assignor, he holds the title in trust for the assignee. Notwithstanding, however, Cobb was not required to perfect the title, yet, if the title had, during his life, issued to him, as by the assignments Thompson became invested with the beneficial interest, he must have held the title in trust for the use of Thompson, and as such would have been bound to surrender it; but in that case, Cobb's liability would have resulted not from the assignment, but from the circumstance of the legal title being cast upon him by the emanation of the patent, and when, from the assignments, it should have issued in the name of Thompson. In such a case, therefore, the obligation of Cobb would not arise until the date of the patent; and in the present case, although the patent purports to have issued in the name of John Cobb, yet as he is proven to have previously departed this life, it is plain that he can never have been under any obligation to convey the land, and, consequently, on account of his failure to convey, Thompson can not have shewn any equity whatever. But as Howell Cobb is one of the heirs of John Cobb, there is no doubt but that the title which would have passed by the patent to the latter as he was then dead, by operation of law under the act of the legislature of this country, enured to, and became vested in his heirs generally. The title thus thrown upon the heirs, as we have already observed in relation to John Cobb, was most clearly held by them in trust for the use of any person who might under a contract with their ancestor, be entitled to the equitable interest. And hence it is contended, that, as by the assignments, Thompson has shewn himself clothed with the equity, he ought, for so much as the heirs have been disabled, by the decree in favor of Taylor, from conveying, to be indemnified in the present contest. *7 Had the heirs, by a voluntary and fraudulent conveyance, defeated Thompson's equity, they should, most indisputably, be compelled to account for the injury, but as the conveyance to Taylor appears to have been executed under a decree obtained without even the service of process upon them, there is certainly no ground for the imputation of fraud, and without evidence of fraud, as they seem to have become by operation of law and without their assent, clothed with the legal title in trust for others, they ought not, in consequence of the conveyance to Taylor obtained also without their concurrence, to be made account to Thompson. If by a fraudulent or voluntary act the trustee parts with the title, he is answerable to the cestui que trust. The conveyance to Taylor, as he is not proven to have had an equity, must be considered as barely passing to him the title which the heirs of Cobb, by operation of law, held in trust for others, and if entitled to it, Thompson should pursue his remedy against Taylor. But if the title is decreed from the trustee, in favor of one shewing no equity, the cestui que trust may assert his claim to the property, but can not subject the trustee. The title to the other fourth, not conveyed to Taylor it is true, still resides in the heirs of Cobb; but as they hold it merely in trust, the naked circumstance of their not having conveyed to Thompson, assuredly furnishes no defence against the equity of Howell Cobb derived under a bona fide purchase of the judgment in Virginia. Notwithstanding, however, Cobb may have shewn himself entitled to the judgment, we are of opinion the court decided correctly in not decreeing Thompson to pay interest. In some cases the chancellor should, no doubt, give interest; but the general rule in equity is, not to allow interest upon judgments, unless founded upon a debt with a penalty, or which, by operation of law, bears interest. 2 Fonblanque, Eq. 424, note d, and the judgment in question not being one of that character, and there being no circumstance proven to take the case out of the general rule, weapprehend interest was properly refused by the court below. A chancellor will not decree interest, except where he relieves against a penalty, or in cases where the law gives interest. Upon the whole we are of opinion the decree must be affirmed with damages, but each party must pay their own cost in this court. Daviess and Bibb, for appellant; Haggin and Hardin, for appellee. Ky.App. 1819. Cobb v. Thompson 1 A.K.Marsh. 507, 8 Ky. 507, 1819 WL 1063 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
