(Cite as: 4 Bibb 503,  7 Ky. 503 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1750 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Young v. Leiper. Apr. 14, 1817. *1 On a question of boundary, the course of a line to be extended according to the magnetic meridian at the date of the deed, and not the true meidian. Course and distance must yield to a marked line. West Headnotes Boundaries 59 k 3(6) 59 Boundaries 59I Description 59k3 Relative Importance of Conflicting Elements 59k3(6) k. Control of Lines Marked or Surveyed Over Other  Elements. Most Cited Cases A line actually marked for a survey is to govern the boundary, although not a right line from corner to corner. Boundaries 59 k 6 59 Boundaries 59I Description 59k6 k. Courses and Distances. Most Cited Cases Where a line has been marked only part of the way, the boundary for the residue of the distance should be a direct line from the termination of the marked line to the corner called for. Boundaries 59 k 6 59 Boundaries 59I Description 59k6 k. Courses and Distances. Most Cited Cases On a question of boundary, the course of the last line is to be extended according to the magnetic meridian at the date of the deed, and not the true meridian. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an appeal from a judgment rendered against Young in action of ejectment brought by Leiper. The contest between the parties, on the trial of the issue, appears to have related exclusively to the establishment of the eastern boundary of a tract of land conveyed by Edward Rogers to John Garnett: and after the introduction of evidence tending to show the making the northeast corner at A. on the connected plat, and the running and marking the line from thence to the stake at E. for the eastern boundary of Garnett's land, before the deed was executed to him by Rogers, the Court, upon the motion of Leiper, instructed the jury that unless the stake at E. in their opinion was fixed as a corner, and called for as such in the deed, the line from A. ought to run a due south to the southern boundary, etc. The deed to Garnett calls to run from the corner at A. a south course to a stake in the south boundary of the survey; and if there was nothing else in the cause but the call for course to fix the boundary, that course should be extended according to the magnetic meridian at the date of the deed, and not the true meridian. Whether the Court by directing the line to run a due south intended thus to be understood, is a matter of some doubt, but which is unimportant in the present case, as we are of opinion that the instructions in other respects cannot be sustained. If it be true, as the evidence conduces to prove, that the line from A. to E. was marked as Garnett's line, according to the repeated decisions of this Court, although it may vary from the course of the deed, it must so far as it extends be regarded as the boundary of his land. *2 The instructions of the Court, therefore, should not have made the eastern boundary of Garnett depend upon the establishment of the stake at E. as a corner, without in any manner regarding the evidence in relation to the marked line; and for that cause the judgment must be reversed. With respect to the decision of that Court in admitting as evidence the record of a former trial had in an action of trespass between the same parties, as that record purports to have involved a decision of the title to the land now in contest, we think it was properly used. The judgment must, however, for the misdirection of the Court to the jury, be reversed, the cause remanded, and a new trial had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1817. Young v. Leiper 4 Bibb 503, 7 Ky. 503, 1817 WL 1750 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
