(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 181,  19 Ky. 181 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1265 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kerley v. Hume, Hume v. Gillespie. Apr. 17, 1826. *1 Nolle Prosequi. Judgment. Pleading. Officers. Executions. Evidence. GROSS WRITS OF ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Replevin 335 k 64 335 Replevin 335VII Pleading 335k64 k. Avowry or Cognizance and Plea Thereto. Most Cited Cases In the cognizance of a constable in a replevin, the statement of the amount of the fi. fa. from the justice, in blank, will not be fatal after issue and verdict. Replevin 335 k 66 335 Replevin 335VII Pleading 335k66 k. Replication or Reply. Most Cited Cases Where plaintiff in replevin enters a nolle prosequi as to a defendant who has made a cognizance, claiming right to possession, a denial by the plaintiff in his replication that defendant had right was of no effect. Replevin 335 k 69(2) 335 Replevin 335VII Pleading 335k69 Issues, Proof, and Variance 335k69(2) k. Matters to Be Proved and Failure of Proof. Most  Cited Cases On the trial of the issue of property or not in the plaintiff, it is not necessary for him to prove that the defendant took the property out of his possession. Replevin 335 k 85 335 Replevin 335X Trial 335k85 k. Dismissal or Nonsuit Before Trial. Most Cited Cases Where plaintiff in replevin enters a nol. pros. as to defendant, who has made cognizance and claimed the property, there must be judgment for return, unless the judgment shows the defendant is not entitled to it. Replevin 335 k 103(2) 335 Replevin 335XI Judgment 335k103 For Defendant 335k103(2) k. Return of Property. Most Cited  Cases In replevin against an officer who had seized goods by execution against a third person, if it appear that such person did not own the goods, defendant is not entitled to a judgment for return of the goods. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action of replevin, brought in the circuit court by John Hume, against Kerley and Gillespie, for the taking of a horse, saddle, &c. Action of replevin by John Hume v. Kerley, a constable, and Gillespie. The sheriff executed the writ by delivering the horse, &c., to Hume; and both Hume and Gillespie appeared to the action and made separate defences. The defendant Kerley made cognizance by acknowledging the taking of the property, but alleged that he did so as constable of Madison county, under a writ of fieri facias, which issued from a justice of the peace for that county, against the estate of Charles Hume, to whom the property taken belonged, in favor of William Robinson and Lewis H. Gillespie, for ______ dollars, &c. Cognizance by the constable, alleging the goods were the property of a third person, against whom he had a fi. fa. under which he made the seizure. *2 Hume replied, that the horse, saddle, &c., were not the property of Charles Hume, as alleged by Kerley, and tendered an issue to the country, which was joined by Kerley. Plaintiff's replication. Gillespie pleaded that the horse, saddle, &c., were not the property of the plaintiff John Hume, at the time of the taking mentioned in the declaration, but were the property of Charles Hume, &c. Gillespie's plea of no property in plaintiff. In reply to this plea, John Hume alleged, that the horse, saddle, &c., were his property, and not the property of Charles Hume, &c. Replication to Gillespie's plea. The plaintiff, John Hume, then enterred a nolle prosequi as to Kerley, and judgment was thereupon entered, "that as to Kerley, the cause be dismissed, and that he recover of the plaintiff, his cost expended, &c." Nolle prosequi as to Kerley. Judgment of the circuit court as to Kerley. A jury was then called to try the issue as to Gillespie, and a verdict was found for him; whereupon the court rendered judgment in bar of the plaintiff John Hume's action. Jury, verdict and judgment as to Gillespie. To reverse this latter judgment, John Hume has prosecuted a writ of error; and to reverse the judgment entered in favor of Kerley, a writ of error has also been prosecuted by Kerley. Writs of error. When the nolle prosequi was entered as to Kerley, it was undoubtedly correct to render a judgment of some sort against the plaintiff John Hume. It was not only correct to enter judgment dismissing the suit as to Kerley, but it was moreover strictly proper to award to him, cost against Hume. This, in ordinary cases, would be all that a defendant could regularly demand upon a nolle prosequi being entered by the plaintiffs; but in an action of replevin, such as the present, the judgment ought, we apprehend, to go further. The defendant in replevin, as well as the plaintiff, is actor, and according to the well settled principles of the common law, judgment should, in the general, upon the dismission of the action, be given for a return of the property to the defendant. There may be, and probably are exceptions to this general rule; as for example, if, when the suit is dismissed, it should appear from the record, that the defendants is not entitled to the possession of the property, it might perhaps be irregular for the court to render judgment for the property to be returned to him. Where the plaintiff in replevin enters a nolle prosequi as to a defendant, who has made cognizance and claimed the right to the possession of the property, there shall be judgment for a return of the property, unless it appears by the record, defendant is not entitled to it. But as respects the right of Kerley, nothing of that sort appears from the record in this case. It is true, that by the replication which was put in by John Hume to the statements contained in the cognizance made by Kerley, it is denied that the right of the property was in Charles Hume, against whom the execution issued, under which Kerley took the property. *3 Denial of plaintiff by his replication that defendant had right, has no effect after nolle prosequi. And we readily admit, that as an officer of the law, claiming the property under a levy of the execution against Charles Hume, the defendant Kerley is not entitled to the possession, if the property were in fact not the property of Charles Hume. But we are not to infer, from the denial of John Hume, that the property did not belong to Charles Hume; for that denial amounts to nothing more than a traverse of what had been previously alleged by Kerley; and not only so, but by entering a nolle prosequi, Hume put it out of the power of Kerley to disprove the denial, and establish the right of property to be in Charles Hume. If it appear in replevin, against an officer who had seized the goods by execution against a third person, that such person had not right, there shall not be a judgment for return of the goods. The record contains nothing, therefore, to take the case out of the general principle of the common law; and of course judgment should have been rendered in favor of Kerley for a return of the property, so that he may be enabled to dispose thereof, under the execution by which it was taken. It was contended in argument, that the cognizance of Kerley is insufficient to shew that the property was taken by him under a fieri facias which issued from competent authority, and as such, not sufficient to entitle him a return of the property. We however issued from a justice of the peace, and the only objections to which, even in point of form, the allegations of the cognizance is liable, consists in the omission to state the precise amount of the demand contained in the execution. But though not stated, the cognizance contains a blank space for the amount, and after issue joined upon other facts, it would be indulging a technical strictness, not calculated to attain the justice of the cause, to adjudge the omission a fatal objection to the cognizance. In the cognizance of a constable in such case, the statement of the amount of the fi. fa. from the justice in blank, will not be in fatal after issue and verdict. It was also objected, that the cognizance contains no prayer for a return of the property, without which, it was contended, there can be regularly no judgment in favor of Kerley for a return. If, however, we are correct in the opinion, that the cognizance contains enough to shew a right in Kerley to the possession of the property, his failure to pray for a return, can not be admitted a sufficient reason for not rendering judgment for a return. It would be more strictly conformable to technical precision, for a cognizance to conclude with a prayer for a return of the property, but without such a prayer, the cognizance may contain matter sufficient to authorize a judgment in favor of the defendant for a return. Nor is it an available objection after verdict in such case, there is no prayer for return of the property. *4 In replevin, as in other actions, the judgment which it is incumbent upon the court to render, is the conclusion of law upon the facts of the case, and not the result of any demand or prayer that either party may think proper to make in the pleadings. The judgment is the conclusion of law from the facts, which the court will draw and pronounce, whether demanded in pleading or not. The judgment in favor of Kerley ought therefore to have gone further, and directed the property to be returned to him. With respect to the judgment recovered by Gillespie, we are also of opinion, that the court erred in its instructions to the jury on the trial of the issue made up between him and the plaintiff John Hume. By that issue, the right of property, and the right only, was drawn in question; and whatever might have been the rule in a different state of pleading, it can not have been necessary, under the issue joined between the parties, for Hume to have proved that he was actually possessed of the property when it was taken. It was consequently incorrect for the court to instruct the jury, that the plaintiff John Hume could not recover, unless he had actual possession of the property when it was taken by the defendant. On the trial of the issue of property or not in plaintiff, it is not necessary for him to prove defendant took the property out of his possession. The judgment in favor of Kerley, as well as that in favor of Gillespie must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below, and a judgment there rendered in favor of Kerley in conformity to this opinion; and such further proceedings had upon the issue made up between Hume and Gillespie, as may not be inconsistent with the principles of this opinion. Kerley must recover cost in this court in the writ of error prosecuted by him against Hume; and Hume must recover cost in the writ of error prosecuted by him against Gillespie. Mandate for judgment against Hume for return of property to Kerley. tween Hume and Gillespie, &c. Caperton, for Kerley and Gillespie; Turner, for Hume. Ky.App. 1826. Kerley v. Hume 3 T.B.Mon. 181, 19 Ky. 181, 1826 WL 1265 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
