(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 7,  10 Ky. 7 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1140 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Edmund Phillips et ux. v. Joseph Green. Oct. 26, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Acknowledgment 12 k 4 12 Acknowledgment 12I Nature and Necessity 12k4 k. Instruments to be acknowledged or proved. Most Cited Cases Acknowledgment 12 k 16 12 Acknowledgment 12II Taking and Certificate 12k14 Authority to Take 12k16 k. Particular officers. Most Cited Cases By the laws in force in 1793, a commission to two justices of the peace to take the acknowledgment of a feme covert was indispensable to the passing of her title. Deeds 120 k 82 120 Deeds 120II Recording and Registration 120k82 k. Necessity as between parties to instrument. Most Cited Cases As between the parties, a deed is valid, though not recorded. Husband and Wife 205 k 15(5) 205 Husband and Wife 205I Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities 205k15 Conveyances by Husband and Wife 205k15(5) k. Conveyance of wife's property. Most Cited  Cases A deed made by husband and wife of all the wife's lands not theretofore sold does not embrace land sold by the wife in her infancy. Infants 211 k 1128 211 Infants 211IV Property and Estate 211IV(B) Real Property Transactions;  Encumbrances 211k1124 Requisites, Validity, Operation, and Effect 211k1128 k. Avoidance and disaffirmance. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k31(1)) No act need be done during infancy to enable an infant to avoid his deed. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was a writ of right, brought by the appellants, to recover an undivided seventh of a lot of ground in the town of Lexington. The mise was joined on the mere right; and on the trial in the circuit court, a verdict was obtained under the instructions of the court by the appellee, who was tenant to the demandant's praecipe, and judgment accordingly rendered against the appellants. From the bill of exceptions taken to the opinion of that court, it appears that the appellants, who were demandants in the writ, proved, that Francis M'Durmed, the father ofthe appellee Milly Phillips, was, in his lifetime, seized of the land, and had title to the lot in contest; that some time in 1792, he departed this life, leaving eight children, of whom said Milly, then an infant, is one; and that Fanny, one of the children, shortly thereafter died without issue. The appellants also introduced a deed of bargain and sale, dated in June, 1792, and purporting to have been given by the appellant, Milly, and the other children of her deceased father, for the purpose of conveying to Hugh M'Durmed certain parcels of land, therein described;--and also read in evidence a deed bearing date in 1793, and purporting to have been given by the said Milly and others, after she had intermarried with a certain Gabriel Phillips, for the purpose, likewise, of conveying to the said Hugh M'Durmed certain lands therein described. The testimonials on each deed were also read in evidence, and each deed was admitted by the appellee to include the lot in contest. The appellants further proved, that some time in 1792 she intermarried with the aforesaid Gabriel Phillips by whom she had two children; that in 1795 he departed this life; and within about nine months thereafter, she intermarried with her present husband, Edmund Phillips, and who is demandant. *2 The appellee then read a deed of bargain and sale, bearing date the 13th of June, 1804, sealed and signed by both of the demandants, and purporting to convey to a certain George Shepherd all the right and interest either in law or equity, which they, as heirs of Francis M'Durmed, dec., and as heirs of Fanny Wilson, dec., daughter of said Francis, were entitled in any lot or parcel of ground in the town of Lexington, and which has not theretofore been conveyed by them, or agreed, or covenanted by them, or their ancestor, to be conveyed, and having introduced evidence conducing to prove the due execution of the deed, the evidence closed on both sides. Whereupon the demandants moved the court to instruct the jury, that if they found, from the evidence, that the demandant, Milly, was an infant at the date of the deed in 1792, and both an infant and feme covert at the date of that of 1793, that those deeds could not prevent them from recovering the land in contest; and that if they found, from the evidence, and admissions of the parties, that the lot in contest was embraced by those deeds, that it could not pass by the deed of 1804 given by them to Shepherd; and also moved the court to instruct the jury, that if they believed the evidence and admissions of the parties, they ought to find for the demandants. The court, however, refused to give the instructions asked for, and instructed the jury that if said Milly was an infant at the date of the deeds of 1792 and 1793, those deeds were void, and the lot of course was embraced by the deed to Shepherd of 1804; and that if the jury should believe the deed of 1804 was sealed and delivered by the demandant Edmund, although his co-demandant and wife might not have executed it according to law, yet it was obligatory during the coverture, and would estop the demandants from recovering in this action.--Exceptions were taken to the opinions of the court, and the evidence spread upon the record; and the questions presented for the decisions of this court, involve an inquiry into the opinions contained in the exceptions. Those opinions, it will be perceived, relate, first, to the instructions which were asked for by the appellants, and refused by the court; and second, to the instructions which were given to the jury. We shall first inquire as to the correctness of the instructions given. And in making this enquiry, as the circuit court appears to have predicated its opinion of the invalidity of the deeds of 1792 and 1793, exclusively upon the infancy of the appellant Milly, it may not be improper for this court, waiving for the present all objections to their due execution, to examine whether or not her infancy has the vitiating effect of rendering them absolutely void. And first, as to the deed of 1792, made whilst Milly was a single woman: There are some contrariety of opinions expressed in the authorities upon the subject, as to the governing principle by which the contracts of infants are determined to be merely voidable, or absolutely void. We have, however, been unable to discover any less exceptionable, and better supported by precedent, than that adopted by Perkins in his treatise on conveyancing. In his 12th section he says, "that all such gifts, grants or deed, made by infants, as do not take effect by delivery of his hand, are void; but all gifts, grants or deeds, made by infants by matter in deed or writing, as do take effect by delivery of his hand, are voidable by himself, his heirs, and by those who have his estate." The same principle is recognized by the court of King's bench, in the case of Zauch on the demise of Abbot against Parsons, 3 Burrow. In delivering the opinion of the court in that case, lord Mansfield, alluding to the principle laid down by Perkins, says, that the words 'which do take effect,' are an essential part of the definition, and exclude letters of attorney, or deeds which delegate a mere authority, and convey no interest; and, observes, a power to receive seisen is an exception to this rule. *3 Acts of infants which take effect by delivery of the hand, are voidable only, while all acts that do not take effect by delivery of the hand are void, unless beneficial to the infant. 1 Marsh. 77, acc. That according to this principle, the deed of 1792 is not void, but merely voidable, is perfectly clear;--but whether or not a deed, importing a prejudice to the infant, would form an exception to the rule, need not be decided; for the deed in question purports to have been given for a valuable consideration, and consequently implies a semblance of benefit to the grantor, Milly. Secondly as to the deed of 1793:--The grantor, Milly, as we have already seen, was, at the execution of that deed, not only an infant, but she was moreover a feme covert; so that the validity of that deed turns upon the operation of a deed of bargain and sale made by a married woman whilst a minor: It will be recollected that the inheritance of married women could not, under the laws of England, be alienated by a deed of bargain and sale; and the deed in question appears to have been executed before any enactment upon the subject by the legislature of this country. On the separation of this state from that of Virginia, however, the laws then in force there were adopted here; so that, in deciding on the validity of such a deed, we are led to look into the laws of Virginia in force at the separation. At common law the estate of a feme covert could only be alienated by fine and recovery, but by our statutes bargain and sale is adequate to that object. By the 5th section of an act of 1748, (body of laws, 210,) it is enacted, "that all deeds of conveyance theretofore made, or thereafter to be made, indented and sealed by husband and wife, and by them personally acknowledged in the general court or county court the wife having first been examined by such court privily and apart from her husband, and giving her free consent to the same, shall be, and are hereby declared to be good and effectual in law, and shall be as valid to convey and pass over all the estate, right, title, claim, interest and demand, of such wife and her heirs, in or to the land, tenements, or hereditaments, so granted or conveyed, whether the same be in right of dower or fee simple, or whatsoever other estate not being fee tail, she may have therein, as if the same had been done by fine and recovery, or by any other way or means whatsoever, &c." And by a subsequent act of 1785, (Pleasants' Revision, 157, s. 7,) the mode alienating the inheritance of married women by deeds of conveyance, is again prescribed, and at the close of the section, it is declared, that the conveyance so made "shall not only be sufficient to convey or release any right of dower thereby intended to be conveyed or released, but be as effectual for every other purpose as if she had been an unmarried woman." The language employed in these acts, for the purpose of showing the effect of deeds of conveyance, executed by married women, is not in each precisely the same; but according to no fair interpretation of either can the deed, if made during the wife's minority,be absolutely obligatory upon her. By a deed duly executed, we apprehend, under either act the title passes from the wife; but we suppose she can not be precluded by either from avoiding a deed made during her infancy. *4 The deed of an infant feme covert is voidable. By the latter act, she certainly can not; for, as by it, the deed is declared to have the same effect, as if made by an unmarried woman, it is plain, that, as the deed of an unmarried infant may be avoided, so may that of a married woman made during her infancy. And by the former act, it is equally clear the deed made during the wife's minority may be avoided. By that act the deed is declared to have no greater effect than a fine and recovery would have; and it is well settled, that a fine levied, or a recovery suffered of the wife's land by the husband and wife, may be avoided on account of the infancy of the wife. 4 Com. digest, Fine H. 7; Fitzh. N. B. 48; Cro. Eliz. 129; Comyn's digest, Baron and Feme, 1, 3; Com. digest, 621. Infancy does not, however, render the fine absolutely void; it is a circumstance that may be used by the person levying the fine in avoidance; but if that be not done during infancy, the fine becomes obligatory, and can not thereafter be avoided. 3 Bacon's Abridgment, 225 Com. digest, Enfant B. 2. We have been thus far considering those deeds as if they had been duly executed; and upon that supposition, as the last in question is admitted to be included in each, it follows the circuit court not only erred in its instructions that those deeds were void, but also in instructing the jury that the lot was embraced by the deed given by the demandants to Shepherd; for as the deed to Shepherd purports barely to convey the interest in lots which had not theretofore been conveyed by the demandants or their ancestor, it is obvious that deed cannot embrace any lot contained in any prior deed which may have transferred the title; and we have already seen the deeds of 1792 and 1793 possess that operation. Whether or not the court decided correctly in the latter branch of the instructions contained in the bill of exceptions, we have not thought it material to inquire. If the instructions were otherwise correct, it would be incumbent upon this court to make the inquiry; but as the judgment must, for other reasons, be reversed, it can not be material to proceed with the investigation. Those instructions relate exclusively to the deed given to Shepherd; and as we suppose that deed does not embrace the lot in contest, any opinion which might be given by this court in relation thereto, can have no ultimate bearing upon the rights of the parties. A deed made by an adult barren and feme of all the wife's lands not theretofore sold, does not embrace land sold by the wife in her infancy--she may affirm or avoid such sales at pleasure. Whether or not, if the deeds of 1792 and 1793 were not duly executed, or absolutely void, the lot would be embraced by the deed to Shepherd, need not be decided; for if either of those deeds pass the title, as they both include the lot, the effect is the same as if both were valid. And as to the deed of 1792, we have been totally unable to perceive any objection to it. That deed, it is true, may not have been regularly recorded; but it appears to have been regularly signed, sealed and delivered by the demandant Milly, and without being recorded, the title must have passed to M'Durmed. *5 An unrecorded deed duly sealed, signed and delivered, passes the title to the grantee. Judging from the certificates of testimonials annexed to the deed of 1793, we should be constrained to decide, that it was not executed in the manner required to pass the inheritance of a married woman. It appears to have been acknowledged before two justices of the peace, but no commission is shown to have issued to them for the purpose of taking her acknowledgement, and according to the laws then in force, such a commission is indispensable to the passing of the title. By the laws in force in 1793, a commission to two justices of the peace to take the privy examination of a feme covert, was indispensable to the validity of the examination. Having disposed of the question arising out of the instructions given to the jury, we are brought to enquire as to the instructions which were asked for by the demandants, but which were refused by the court. On approaching this branch of the cause, the only question that presents itself as of any importance, and which has not already been noticed, involves an examination into the demandants' right to recover, without having actually entered upon the lot, or done some act during the infancy of the feme to avoid the deeds given by her to M'Durmed. If the mere circumstance of the demandants having brought their writ, is sufficient to avoid those deeds, there is no doubt they must succeed, for, as M'Durmed, the ancestor of the demandant Milly, is admitted to have been seized of the lot, his seizin is sufficient to authorize the demandants deriving title as his heirs, to maintain their writ; but if any act were necessary to be done by them during the infancy of Milly, or if actual entry were at any time necessary to avoid those deeds, then, as neither is proven to have been done by the demandants, the court can not have erred in refusing to instruct the jury to find for them. It is perfectly clear, according to the view we have taken of the deed of 1793, that no act was necessary to avoid it. That deed, we have seen, was not executed conformably to the requisitions of the laws then in force regulating the alienation of the inheritance of married women, and being executed by Milly whilst covert, must be held inoperative and void. Whether, if regularly executed, that deed shrould have been avoided during the minority of Milly, is a proposition involved in some doubt. If, under the statutes in force in this country, the conveyance of a feme covert, made by bargain and sale, is to have the same force and effect, to every purpose, as a fine, there is no doubt but the deed, if it had been regularly executed whilst Milly was covert, ought to have been avoided during her infancy; for it is well settled at common law, that on account of infancy, a fine could not be avoided after the arrival of the infant at full age. 3 Bac. Abr. 606. Whether, however, our statutes should be construed to have the same operation as to the avoidance of deeds made under them, we would not be understood as now deciding, but will reserve the question until a decision on that point becomes necessary to the rights of the parties. *6 With respect to the deed of 1792,executed by Milly whilst an infant and unmarried, we are of opinion, that no act was necessary to be done, during her minority, to avoid it, but that after her arrival at full age it was competent for the demandants to assert her right to the lot. No act need be done during the infancy to enable an infant to avoid his acts. We have met with no adjudged case in the English books where the case has undergone a direct adjudication: But Lord Coke, in his 2d Institutes, 673, says, "if an infant bargain and sell land by deed indented, and enrolled, he may avoid it at any time." And in 3 Burrow, 1805, Lord Mansfield cites the authority from Coke with approbation, And the same authority is compiled by Bacon in his Abridgment, 3d Vol. 607. This question, however, occurred before the supreme court of New York, in the case of Jackson on the demise of Wallace, &c., against Carpenter; and it was there held, that an infant, after his arrival at full age, might avoid a deed of bargain and sale. See  11 John. Rep. 539. In the case in New York it was also held, that an entry by the grantor upon the land, was not necessary to avoid a deed made during infancy, but that he might avoid it after arriving at full age by a deed for the same land executed to another person. The authority from New York, and that from Coke, whilst they prove that neither any act was necessary to be done by the demandants during the minority of Milly, or an entry at any time upon the lot for the purpose of avoiding the deed of 1792, they tend, strongly, to fortify the position assumed in the former part of this opinion, that the deed, although made by the demandant Milly during her infancy, is not absolutely void, but merely voidable. Upon the whole we are of opinion that, assuming the evidence and admissions of the parties to be true, the demandants shewed themselves entitled to recover; and, consequently, the court erred in not so instructing the jury. The judgment must therefore be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Wickliffe, for appellants; Haggin, contra. Ky.App. 1820. Philips v. Green 3 A.K.Marsh. 7, 10 Ky. 7, 1820 WL 1140 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 124 END OF DOCUMENT
