(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 382,  8 Ky. 382 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1422 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Henry Wishart v. John Cosby. Nov. 28, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Boundaries 59 k 7 59 Boundaries 59I Description 59k7 k. Location of Corners. Most Cited Cases Where no corner was ever made, and no lines appear running from the other corners towards the one desired, the place where the courses and distances will intersect is the corner. If, however, a marked line can be found, it shall be pursued as far as may be done;  but, if it does not extend to the intersection, then the course of the patent shall be taken until the intersection is made. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment rendered in favor of Cosby, in an action of ejectment, brought by him in the court below against Wishart. The main contest between the parties, relates to the boundary of Cosby's claim and involves an inquiry into the decision of that court, in giving instructions to the jury. After the evidence was gone through, the jury were instructed, that if they believed from the evidence that the northeast and southwest corners of Cosby's patent claim were established, that the law would fix the northwest corner at the intersection of the lines extended, according to the patent courses, from the northeast and southwest corners, unless they should also be of opinion, from the evidence, that some other place had been marked and fixed on as the northwest corner, although there never had been a northwest corner made to the survey. When the diagonal corners of a survey are shewn, but the corner at the intersection of the angles is not found or lines proved to have been marked, the absent corner is to be fixed at the point of intersection of the courses called for in the patent, at angles from the diagonal corners. But when the survey was made, if part of a line from either corner was marked, such line is to be pursued and forms the boundary as far as it is marked, and then the course of the patent is to be pursued to find the intersection--vide, Vance v. Marshall's acct. Assuming no northwest corner ever to have been made, and no evidence to have introduced conducing to show the lines, either from the northeast corner or the southwest corner, to have been run at the making of the original survey, there could not be a doubt, from the repeated decisions of this court, but that the intersection of the lines from the northeast corner and the southwest corner should form the northwestern boundary of Cosby's claim. But as the making of a corner is of no greater validity in fixing the boundary of a survey than the marking of its lines, it is plain that the court, in giving the instructions, ought not to have withdrawn from the jury the consideration of the evidence in relation to the lines of the survey, but should moreover have hypothecated their instructions as to the patent courses of the lines fixing the northwest corner, upon the further opinion of the jury on the evidence in relation to the marking and identity, of the lines of the original survey; and should have informed the jury, that if they were of opinion, from the evidence, that the lines, or any part thereof, from the northeast and southwest corners were extended variant from the patent course, that so far as those lines were, in their opinion, shown to have been made, they must give boundary to the claim, and if they were of opinion those lines were not extended to the intersection, that the patent corners from the points where they are shown to have existed, should be extended, so as by their intersection, to form the northwestern corner. *2 The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to that court, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. B. Hardin for appellant, Wickliffe for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Wishart v. Cosby 1 A.K.Marsh. 382, 8 Ky. 382, 1818 WL 1422 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
