(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 69,  20 Ky. 69 (Ky.),  1827 WL 2579 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thompson v. Daugherty's Heirs. Jan. 20, 1826. *1 Entries. Boonsborough. Towns. Statutes. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEO. SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry calling "to adjoin the lands belonging to the town of B." was held invalid, no survey of the town having been made at the date of the entry. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] To obtain a surrender of the legal title to the land in contest, which is held by the heirs of Thomas Daugherty, deceased, under an adverse claim, Thompson exhibited his bill in equity, claiming the superior equity under the following entry: Bill on the entry. February 9th, 1780, John Lutrill enters four hundred acres, by virtue of a certificate, &c. lying on the westwardly and south westwardly line of the lands belonging to the town of Boonsborough. Entry of John Lutrill. Before the date of this entry Boonsborough had been settled, and when the entry was made, it was a place of general notoriety; but there is no evidence in the cause conducing to prove that the land belonging to the town had been abutted and bounded by actual survey at the date of the entry. Evidence as to Boonsborough called for, but no boundary shewn. The entry of Lutrill, was, however, sustained by the court below, and directed to be surveyed to adjoin two lines of the land belonging to the town of Boonsborough, as it appeared on the hearing of the cause to be surveyed; and the heirs of Daugherty were decreed to convey to Thompson so much of the land in contest as was found to be common to the survey of Lutrill's entry, as actually made, and a survey made in conformity to the opinion of the court directing the entry to be surveyed. Decree of the circuit court. If the entry of Lutrill can be sustained, it is perfectly clear that it must derive its support from something else than the survey, which by the decree of the court below, it is directed to adjoin. For without evidence of the survey having been previously made, we can not presume it was made before the date of the entry, and if not then made, no proposition is more clear than that it can not have been the object intended to be adjoined by the maker of Lutrill's entry. But before the entry was made, the legislature of Virginia, had, by an act of 1779, reserved six hundred and forty acres of land, to be laid off for the purpose of certain towns therein described; and as Boonsborough is one of the places coming within the provisions of that act, it may be contended, that although the survey afterwards made, may not in itself uphold the entry, it should be sustained by making it adjoin the six hundred and forty acres reserved for Boonsborough by the act. Act of Virginia reserving lands for the towns in Kentucky. *2 The act provides, that "Whereas, several families for their greater safety, have settled themselves in villages or townships, under some agreement between the inhabitants for laying off the same into town lots to be divided among them, and have, from present necessity cultivated a piece of ground adjoining thereto in common:--Be it enacted, That six hundred and forty acres of land, whereon such villages or towns are situate, and to which no other person hath a previous legal claim, shall not be entered for or surveyed, but shall be reserved for the use and benefit of the said inhabitants until a true representation of their case can be made to the general assembly, that right and justice may be done them." Extract from the act. The six hundred and forty acres reserved by the act, may, with propriety, be said to belong to the several towns coming within the description therein given, and as Boonsborough falls within that description, and is not proved to have had any other land at the date of Lutrill's entry, the call for the westwardly and south-westwardly line of the lands belonging to the town of Boonsborough, contained in the entry, must be understood to allude to the land reserved by the act for Boonsborough. It is true, that until surveyed, the six hundred and forty acres reserved for the town, can have no visible line to be adjoined, but it must nevertheless, before it was surveyed, have had lines in contemplation of law. So that if the entry of Lutrill can be sustained, it must be made to adjoin the constructive lines of the land reserved by the act, and not the lines of the survey which were made after the date of the entry. An entry calling to adjoin a town before the 640 acres had been surveyed, can not be laid down upon the lines afterwards surveyed for the boundary of the town. But is it true that the land reserved for towns, has assigned to it by the act, such a certain and fixed position, as to uphold an entry having for its support no other locative call than to adjoin the lines of the town land? This question must, we apprehend, according to any fair construction which can be put upon the act, be answered in the negative. If the act had done nothing more than to provide a general reservation of six hundred and forty acres, to include the town, it might, in analogy to the rules which have been applied by repeated adjudications in the construction of entries be plausibly contended that the town land should form a square with lines to the cardinal points, including the town in the centre. But a slight attention to the provisions of the act will demonstrate, that by making the reservation for towns the legislature can not have intended to fix the exact boundary of the land reserved, or direct the figure it should assume. The town must, it is true, according to the act, be included by the six hundred and forty acres reserved; but that may be done, and yet the land may be made by actual survey, to assume as many different figures as it is possible to imagine; and not only so, but what is conclusive against construing the act to have given shape to, and defined the precise location of the six hundred and forty acres reserved, there is no posible figure for the land to assume, which might not, in its application to the various towns provided for by the act, conflict with the prior rights of others, contrary to what is expressly forbidden by the provisions of the act. It was "land to which no other person had a previous legal claim," that was, by the act reserved for the use of towns, and no construction should be indulged, that might in its practical operation, produce a collision between the land reserved for towns and the prior claims of others. To the contrary, the previous legal claims of others, must, in construing the act, be regarded and preserved, and in doing so, we are necessarily compelled to maintain that the act has assigned to the town land no precise and fixed position. *3 The act contemplated no certain figures for the towns. It follows, therefore, that the entry of Lutrill can not be sustained, and consequently Thompson, who claims under that entry, has no cause to complain of the decree being prejudicial to him. Hence a call to adjoin such a town, (having no boundary) is not a sufficient call to give the entry position. Other points were relied on by the counsel of Thompson, but they are so obviously against him, that we have not deemed them worthy of particular notice. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Breck, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1826. Thompson v. Daugherty's Heirs 4 T.B.Mon. 69, 20 Ky. 69, 1827 WL 2579 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
