(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 6,  8 Ky. 6 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1738 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. James Furguson et al. v. Henry White. Oct. 13, 1817. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of detinue, brought by the appellants in the court below, to recover the possession of a family of slaves, held by the appellee under a purchase from a certain Augustus, who held the same by purchase from a certain William Furguson, the husband of Esther Allison, and father of the appellants. For the purpose of manifesting their right to the negroes, the appellants on the trial in the court below, introduced a deed of gift, executed in North Carolina, by their grandfather, James Allison, for the negro woman Lucy, one of those in contest and the mother of the others, to his daughter Esther (the mother of the appellants) during her life, and then to her children in remainder; and after shewing themselves to be the children of Esther, and proving the delivery of the negro woman to her in that state, and her death; and after the evidence on the part of the appellee was also gone through, the court, on their motion, instructed the jury, that unless they were convinced that the writing introduced as aforesaid by the appellants, was recorded within eight months after its execution, or that it was acknowledged in court and ordered to be recorded, they must find for the appellee, and the jury having returned a verdict against the appellants, and judgment being rendered accordingly, they brought the cause before this court. We are of opinion the instructions of the court below can not, upon any principle, he maintained. It was, we apprehend, clearly irregular, to make the finding of the jury turn exclusively upon the question, whether or not, the writing was recorded within eight months from its date. Upon the hypothesis, that our statute of frauds should govern the case, it was not essential for the writing to have been recorded within eight months. For, although by a provision in the statute, "where any reservation or limitation shall be pretended to have been made of a use or property, by way of condition, reversion, remainder or otherwise, in goods and chattels, the possession whereof shall remain in another for the space of five years," the same is declared fraudulent as to the creditors and purchasers of the property so remaining in possession, unless such reservation or limitation is declared by will or deed, in writing proved and recorded as the act direct. We apprehend a declaration in writing, such as is required by the law, if made, proved and recorded at any time within the five years, another may be possessed of the property, will, to every essential purpose, be a fulfillment of the requisitions of the law. Such has been the decision of the court of appeals of Virginia, in the case of Beasly and Owens, 3 Hen. Mum. 449, in relation to the provision of the statute, as to the loan of slaves, and such we suppose to be the obvious import of the act in relation to the reservation of a remainder. *2 A deed of gift making reservations or limitations need not be recorded within eight months of its date; if it is recorded before the property has been possessed by another within the state for five years, it is sufficient. The propriety of this construction will be the more clearly illustrated in its application to the case now under consideration. It will be perceived, that the writing in question was executed in the state of North Carolina, and as in all municipal regulations, our statute should not be construed to operate extra territoriam, it would be obviously improper to make the date of writing have any effect in its application to the statute. Municipal regulations, will not operate extra territoriam. But, although the writing was executed out of the state, yet, as was held in the case of  Smith and Withers, 4 Bibb, 170, a possession such as is demanded in the act for the space of five years within the state, will have the vitiating effect of making void the pretended reservation, as to the creditors and purchasers of the person possessed, unless declared, proved and recorded; but as it is the possession within the state, which, in the language of the act, unites the absolute property with the possession, it would seem to follow, that a record of the reservation or limitation, at any time before the property, by being possessed within the state, unites with the possession, will save the operation of the statute. But as the possession for five years in another constitutes the reservation fraudulent under the statute, no record made after the lapse of such a possession, can affect the claim of purchasers, whether they may have become such either before or after the making such a record. If such a deed containing such reservations, is recorded after the property has been possessed by another five years within the state, it is still void as to creditors and purchasers of the holder. At whatever period they may have acquired the appellation, in both instances they are in the words of the act, creditors and purchasers, and by avoiding, at their instance, the reservation or limitation, the letter of the act will not only be better preserved, but as all enquiries into the time of their becoming creditors or purchasers, will be thereby excluded, the prevention of perjury, one of the mischiefs designed to be remedied by act, will be the more certainly attained. The judgment must be reversed, with cost; the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Littell for appellant, Hardin, for appellee. Ky.App. 1817. Furguson v. White 1 A.K.Marsh. 6, 8 Ky. 6, 1817 WL 1738 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
