(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 436,  8 Ky. 436 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1023 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Isham Talbot v. William P. Bowen. Apr. 9, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE HENDERSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 156 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185X Pleading 185k156 k. Issues, proof, and variance. Most Cited Cases On a bill brought to enforce a verbal contract for the sale of land, if the defendant would avail himself of the statute of frauds, he should deny the sale, or plead the statute, or rely upon it in his answer;  but if this is not done, and the answer admits the sale, the complainant need not prove the sale. Specific Performance 358 k 131 358 Specific Performance 358IV Proceedings and Relief 358k131 k. Judgment or decree. Most Cited Cases It is irregular to direct a commissioner to convey, without giving the defendant day to do so. Infants 211 k 1035 211 Infants 211II Status, Capacities, and Disabilities 211II(B) Rights, Capacities, and Disabilities 211k1035 k. Capacity to act as agent or trustee. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k6) An infant may be an agent, and his agency may be created by parol. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This suit was brought in chancery by Bowen, to obtain a title to a moiety of a lot of ground in the town of Henderson, the equity whereof is asserted by him through a certain William Featherston, who, it is alleged, purchased it from the son and agent of Talbot. The purchase of Featherston is admitted by the answer of Talbot, but the authority of his son to sell the land, is denied; and if authorized, it is contended, that owing to his son's infancy, and the inadequacy of the consideration for which the sale was made, a specific execution of the contract ought not to be decreed. On a final hearing, the court below being of opinion that Bowen was entitled to relief, pronounced a decree appointing commissioners, and ordering them to convey the lot, without making their conveyance depend upon the failure of Talbot to execute a deed. The main objection taken to the relief sought in the bill, involves the propriety of decreeing an execution of the contract, without evidence in writing, of the terms of Featherston's purchase from the son of Talbot. As the contract was for the sale of land, there is no doubt but, according to the plain and obvious import of the statute against frauds and perjuries, that Talbot might have required written evidence of the terms of sale; but this we apprehend could have been done in no other way than by either denying of the sale, or pleading, or relying upon the statute, in his answer. The stat, of frauds can only be an available objection to decreeing a verbal contract for lands, by denying the sale in the answer, or pleading or relying on the statute, if the answer admits the sale, and fails to rely on the statute the complainant need adduce no proof of the sale. *2 Upon a denial of the sale, as it would have devolved upon Bowen to have proven it, the evidence should, no doubt, to authorize a decree in his favor, conform to the requisitions of the statute; or upon the statute being either pleaded or relied on in the answer, then, as evidence of the sale should also be introduced, proof of its terms having been reduced to writing, would, most clearly, be essentially necessary to entitle Bowen to relief. But in the present case, as the purchase of Featherston is admitted by the ?? swer of Talbot, and as the statute is not relied upon by him, it cannot, either for the purpose of proving the sale, or taking it out of the statute; have been necessary for Bowen to introduce any evidence whatever in relation to the terms of sale. The failure, therefore, to manifest by writing the terms of Featherston's purchase, affords no objection to the relief sought by Bowen. But as the authority of Talbot's son is expressly denied, it is also contended, that evidence of his authority should not only have been introduced, but it is moreover urged that the authority should be shewn to have been in writing. That to make the sale obligatory upon Talbot, his son must have been clothed with power to sell, is a proposition not to be controverted; but as respects the justice of the case, it can not be material whether the authority was created either by writing or parol, and the statute against frauds and perjuries has never been held to require it to be in writing. An agency to sell lands is not within the statute and may be created by parol. And that the son was authorized either verbally or in writing to make the sale, from the circumstances detailed in evidence, there is no room for a moment to doubt. And if authorized, according to the settled doctrine of the law, his being an infant can afford no objection against the liability of Talbot; for although the contracts of infants are not, in all cases, binding upon them, there is no doubt but, as they may act as agents, their contracts, made in that character, if otherwise unexceptionable, will be binding upon their principal. An infant may be an agent, and his acts (otherwise unexceptionable), will bind his principal. With respect to the inadequacy of the consideration, relied upon by Talbot, it need only be remarked, that the evidence conduces satisfactorily to prove that the full value of the lot, at the time of its sale, was given for it by Featherston. Upon the whole, we are satisfied, that Bowen is entitled to a specific execution of Featherston's purchase; but we are of opinion that it was irregular to direct the commissioner to convey, without giving Talbot a previous day to do so. For that irregularity, therefore, the decree must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered according to the principles of this opinion. It is irregular to appoint a commissioner to convey without giving a defendant a day to do??o. Littell for plaintiff, Pope for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1819. Talbot v. Bowen 1 A.K.Marsh. 436, 8 Ky. 436, 1819 WL 1023 (Ky.), 10 Am.Dec. 747 END OF DOCUMENT
