(Cite as: 4 Bibb 461,  7 Ky. 461 (Ky.),  1816 WL 830 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Clay v. Miller. Nov. 27, 1816. *1 An occupant of land to be entitled to pay for his improvements under the occupying claimant law should deduce a regular title from the Commonwealth. If the occupant holds a deed which covers the land, yet if in deducing the title it appears that the patent under which he claims does not include the land, the deed alone will not bring him within the law. The failure of the successful claimant to object to the occupants' title when he applies for the appointment of commissioners, does not bar his right to object when the report is returned. The successful claimants making election to take the value of the land, after a decision overruling his motion to quash the report, does not preclude him from assigning that decision for error in this Court. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 161 30 Appeal and Error 30IV Right of Review 30IV(B) Estoppel, Waiver, or Agreements Affecting Right 30k160 Acceptance of Benefits 30k161 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a successful claimant for land moves to have the commissioner's report on the value of improvements quashed, on the ground that the occupant had no right to claim for improvements, and, after his motion is erroneously overruled, elects to take the value of the land, this does not preclude him from assigning for error, in the court of appeals, the decision overruling his motion. Ejectment 142 k 149 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k149 k. Verdict and Findings as to Improvements or Taxes. Most Cited Cases In a suit in ejectment, the successful claimant did not, before the appointment of commissioners to report on the value of improvements, object to the occupant's title, under the occupying claimant law. It was held that his failure to do so did not bar his right to object on the coming in of the report. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. CLAY having recovered against Miller a judgment in ejectment, the Court, on the motion of Miller, made an order appointing commissioners under the occupying claimant law. The commissioners after having went upon the land and ascertained the improvements, etc. made report. Clay then supposing that Miller, in consequence of his having neither a legal nor equitable claim derived from the Commonwealth, was not entitled to compensation under the occupying claimant law, moved the Court to quash the report of the commissioners; but upon examining the evidence of Miller's title, the motion was overruled: and the question for the determination of this Court is, should the report have been quashed? The solution of this question turns upon the description of claim necessary to be manifested by an occupant to entitle him to the benefits of the occupying claimant law. If the claim should be deduced from the Commonwealth, it is perfectly clear that Miller has not brought his case within the law: for although he claimed the land under a deed regularly recorded, and that deed actually covers the land in contest, yet it is incontestibly shown that Williams, from whom he obtained the deed, had neither a legal nor equitable title. Williams, it is true, claimed the land through Russell, who is shown to have held a patent from the Commonwealth; but it is clearly proven that Russell's patent does not include the land upon which the improvements were made. *2 The foundation of Miller's claim is, therefore, the deed from Williams, unconnected with any deduction of title from the Commonwealth; and as such we cannot suppose he has brought himself within the occupying claimant law. Assuming, then, that Miller's case does not come within the law, it results the order appointing the commissioners was irregularly made; and unless, as was contended in argument, Clay, by failing to oppose the making of the order, has waived the objection, the report made in pursuance thereof should have been quashed. We cannot, however, suppose the failure of Clay should be so construed. It certainly would have been most regular for Clay to have opposed the making of the order; and had no objections been taken to the report, on the grounds of Miller having no title, this Court would, according to its former decisions, have inferred he had shown a sufficient claim. But as objections were taken to the report on that ground, and the objection maintained by the proof in the cause, the report ought to have been quashed. But it was furthermore contended, that Clay, by electing to take the value of his land, rather than pay Miller for the improvements, has precluded himself from questioning the correctness of the decision of the Court below in refusing to quash the report. This position cannot, however, be admitted to be correct: for as Clay was driven to his election by the decision of the Court, he ought not to be prevented from availing himself of any error in that decision, when properly presented, as in this case, upon the record. The judgment of the Court below must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to that Court, and the report of the commissioners and order appointing them set aside with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Clay v. Miller 4 Bibb 461, 7 Ky. 461, 1816 WL 830 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
