(Cite as: 3 Bibb 356,  6 Ky. 356 (Ky.),  1814 WL 789 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Taylor, etc. v. the Commonwealth, for Philips and Hunt. Jul. 7, 1814. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 96 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k96 k. Delivery to and Receipt by Sheriff. Most Cited Cases In an action against a sheriff for a false return of nulla bona on an execution, the indorsement of the sheriff of the time when the execution came to his hand may be contradicted. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 139(5) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k126 Actions Against Officers and Indemnitors 353k139 Damages 353k139(5) k. Measure and Amount. Most Cited  Cases In an action against a sheriff for a false return of an execution, the measure of damages is not necessarily the amount of the execution, but the actual damage sustained. Witnesses 410 k 98 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k91 Interest of Party or Other Person 410k98 k. Interest Arising from Particular Obligations  or Transactions. Most Cited Cases In an action against a sheriff for a false return on an execution, defendant in the execution is a competent witness to prove that he had sufficient property to satisfy the execution at the time it was delivered to the sheriff. Evidence 157 k 428 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(B) Invalidating Written Instrument 157k428 k. Grounds for Admission of Extrinsic Evidence. Most  Cited Cases In an action against a sheriff for a false return of nulla bona on an execution, the clerk may be introduced to prove when the writ was delivered to the sheriff, and that the entry on the execution book of the time of delivery has been altered, and is not the true time. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS was an action brought in the name of the Commonwealth for the benefit of Philips and Hunt, in the Court below, against Taylor, sheriff, and others, his securities, on a sheriff's bond. In an action against a sheriff for a false return on an execution, the clerk may be introduced to prove when it was delivered to the sheriff and that the entry on the execution book of time of delivery had been altered, and was not the true time. The defendant in the execution is competent to prove he had property sufficient to satisfy the execution, when in the sheriff's hands. The indorsement of the sheriff when an execution came to hand may be contradicted. A judgment against the sheriff, will not bar further proceedings on the execution. The amount of the execution is not the measure of damages, but the actual damage sustained to be manifested by the particular circumstances of the case. The declaration charges the execution of a bond by Taylor and his securities, in the usual form, and alleges for breach that "Philips and Hunt, on the 5th day of March, 1811, sued out of the clerk's office of Jefferson Circuit Court a writ of execution commonly called a fi. fa. No.--, against John C. Beeler, wherein and whereby the said sheriff was commanded to make of the estate of the said John C. Beeler the sum of $721, sustained in damages by the said Philips and Hunt, by reason of the non-performance of a certain promise and assumption of the said John C. Beeler to the said Philips and Hunt lately made: and also $10 16 cents adjudged to them for their costs, etc.: which execution was on the ____ day of March, 1811, delivered to Thomas Shipp, deputy sheriff for said Taylor, sheriff as aforesaid, who at the time of delivery aforesaid, at the circuit aforesaid, and many other times thereafter, had various and divers opportunities of levying the said execution upon the estate of the said John C. Beeler, who at the time of the delivery of the execution, and before the return day had sufficient property to satisfy said execution in the said circuit, but the said deputy negligently, fraudulently and collusively suffered the estate of the said Beeler to be transported and removed out of the said circuit and Commonwealth, and falsely, fraudulently and collusively returned by way of indorsement upon said execution, 'no property found;' and the plaintiff avers the return of the said sheriff is altogether false and fraudulent, and that he had various opportunities of levying said execution," etc. The defendants in the Court below (the appellants here) filed a plea in substance traversing the assignment of breaches; whereupon issue was joined to the country. On the trial of the issue in the Court below, it appeared in evidence, from an inspection of the indorsements on the execution of Philips and Hunt against John C. Beeler, that an indorsement had been made by the deputy, of the execution having come to hand on the 11th of March, 1811, but which was erased and a further indorsement made of its having come to hand the 24th of March, 1811. *2 Edward Tyler, a deputy clerk, was then introduced as a witness, who proved the execution was delivered to the deputy sheriff the 11th of March, and an entry made on the execution docket of the delivery on that day, but that an alteration had been since made by some person unknown, by which it appears to have been delivered the 24th of March; and the alteration was discovered by him one day when the deputy had been in the office examining the execution docket. The admission of this evidence was opposed by the defendants in the Court below, but admitted by the Court. We will therefore first inquire into the correctness of the decision of that Court in admitting the evidence. It is objected that because the evidence tended to contravene the record of the entry on the execution docket, when the execution was delivered, it should not have been received. We have been however unable to find any provision in the law making it the duty of clerks to note the time when executions are delivered to sheriffs, and if no such provision exits, the entry of the clerk without the authority of law, cannot give it the authenticity of a record; and consequently the admission of the parol evidence cannot be brought within the influence of the rule from whence it is urged it should have been rejected. If, however, such a provision could be found to exist, still we should entertain the opinion that no principle of law nor rule of evidence forbids the admission of such evidence: for we cannot suppose a party by his fraudulent alteration of a record should be permit to make evidence for himself, and then on the principle of the sanctity of records repel any attempt to ascertain the fact. Such doctrine would be attended with too many evil consequences to receive the sanction of this Court, unless supported by the most strong and conclusive authority. We are of opinion, therefore, the evidence was properly admitted. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the Court below in admitting the evidence of John C. Beeler, against whom the execution issued, to prove he had, between the 11th and 24th of March, 1811, property sufficient to satisfy the execution. We are therefore next led to examine the competency of this evidence. It is objected, first, that in as much as the indorsement on the execution now imports that it came to hand the 24th, no evidence should have been admitted of what property Beeler had prior to that date. This objection is evidently entitled to no weight: for although the law requires and enjoins it as a duty on sheriffs to indorse the time when they receive executions, such indorsement when made cannot conclude the plaintiff in the execution in an action against the sheriff for failing to perform his duty in levying an execution, from showing the true time when the execution was delivered to the sheriff. Nor was it necessary, as was urged in argument, that a suit should have been brought for failing to indorse the true time of receiving the execution, to have justified the evidence in relation to that fact: for if the execution was actually received the 11th, and the sheriff failed to perform his duty in levying it before the 24th, a cause of action accrued to the plaintiffs in the execution before that period; and by no improper or illegal act of the sheriff, in making an incorrect indorsement, could that cause of action be evaded. It is, secondly objected that the evidence of John C. Beeler was inadmissible, because it is contented that a judgment against the sheriff in this case will bar any further proceedings on the execution against Beeler. Were the premises assumed, that a judgment against the sheriff in an action like the present would bar any further proceedings against the defendant in the execution, the conclusion from thence endeavored to be deduced would necessarily follow. We are however of opinion that a judgment against the sheriff will not have such effect. By the sheriff's failure to levy the execution, he does not thereby necessarily become liable to the full amount of the demand of the plaintiff in the execution. It is true the sheriff is bound by the duties of his office faithfully and impartially to execute all process to him delivered; and for a failure to perform the duties of his office, according to the well known principles of the common law, the person sustaining an injury has a right to recover damages commensurate to the injury. The extent of the injury is not however in all cases to be measured by the amount of the demand for which there has been a failure to execute process: for it may frequently happen that but inconsiderable damages are sustained by the failure of the sheriff to perform his duty; as if the defendant in the execution is at the time of the sheriff's delinquency able to pay, and continues solvent and actually pays the demand in a short time thereafter, the damage is not so great, nor should as much be recovered as if by the delinquency of the sheriff nothing could thereafter be made out of the defendant in the execution. *3 According to the rules of the common law, therefore, for a failure in the sheriff to do his duty in levying an execution, he did not become necessarily liable to the plaintiff for the full amount thereof, but was liable to the actual damage sustained, to be manifested by the particular circumstances of each case. Nor is it conceived the statutory provisions requiring the sheriff to give bond and security for a faithful compliance with his duty, has in this respect changed the rules of the common law; but has given a cumulative remedy for the recovery of that with which, according to the rules of law theretofore, the sheriff himself was chargeable. As, therefore, the sheriff in cases like the present is only liable to the actual damage occasioned by his delinquency, it seems to follow that a judgment against him will not bar any farther proceedings on the execution against Beeler; and hence it inevitably results that Beeler is not interested in the decision of this case, and consequently a competent witness. Judgment affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1814. Taylor v. Com. 3 Bibb 356, 6 Ky. 356, 1814 WL 789 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
