(Cite as: 2 Bibb 610,  5 Ky. 610 (Ky.),  1812 WL 648 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Dowell v. Hall. Fall Term, 1812. *1 One who hath the absolute property and right to immediate possession may maintain detinue, although he hath never had actual possession. The affidavit of a party to the cause may be received to prove the death of one subscribing witness, and that the other cannot be found so as to let in other evidence of the execution of the writing. Copy of a writing admitted in evidence for the one party, the other party having it in possession and failing to produce it, upon notice given during the trial. An absolute bill of sale in the hands of the vendee, and a conditional defeasance and stipulation in the hands of the vendor, are to be taken together as one contract. The conditional defeasance having suspended the right of the vendee to take possession until the death of the vendor the limitation did not begin to run from the date of the bill of sale, but from the death of the vendor. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 47(2) 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(A) Accrual of Right of Action or Defense 241k47 Covenants and Conditions 241k47(2) k. Covenants in Sale or Conveyance. Most Cited  Cases Where an absolute bill of sale of slaves is delivered to the vendee, who delivers to the vendor a conditional defeasance, by which the right of the vendee to take possession is suspended until the death of the vendor, the limitation of the vendee's right of action for the slaves does not begin to run until the death of the vendor. Detinue 126 k 5 126 Detinue 126k3 Grounds 126k5 k. Title and Right to Possession of Plaintiff. Most Cited Cases The legal right to slaves gives the owner right to maintain an action of detinue to recover the possession, although he may never have been in actual possession. Evidence 157 k 179(2) 157 Evidence 157V Best and Secondary Evidence 157k176 Grounds for Admission of Secondary Evidence 157k179 Possession or Control of Primary Evidence 157k179(2) k. Possession by Adverse Party. Most Cited  Cases Where the primary evidence is in the possession, or under control, of the adverse party, who fails or refuses to produce it, secondary evidence is admissible. Evidence 157 k 374(8) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k374 Attesting  Witnesses 157k374(8) k. Preliminaries to Admission of  Secondary Evidence of Execution. Most Cited Cases Affidavits 21 k 18 21 Affidavits 21k18 k. Use in Evidence. Most Cited Cases The affidavit of a party to the cause may be received, to prove the death of one subscribing witness to a bill of sale, and that the other cannot be found, so as to let in other evidence of the execution of the writing. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *2 THIS is an action of detinue, brought by the appellee against the appellant, for two negroes, Ellis and Paul. Pleas non detinet and statute of limitations, and issues thereupon; verdict and judgment for the negroes, and damages and costs. The appellee derived title from Robert Hall, sen., who was the lawful owner of the negroes in 1803, and on the trial he produced in evidence an absolute bill of sale, from Robert Hall, sen., for the negroes, bearing date November 23, 1803; also a copy of the following article of agreement, of the same date: "Articles of agreement made and concluded upon between Robert Hall, sen., of the one part, and Robert Hall, junior, of the other part witnesseth: that in consideration of the said Robert Hall, junior, delivering me three negroes, the property of Robert Hall, sen. in Fayette county, in the State of Kentucky, and if the above Robert Hall, jun. delivers me the said negroes, he is to have two of them as his right and property, at the decease of said Robert Hall, sen. etc. Signed by Robert Hall, sen. and Robert Hall, jun. N. B. If said negroes are not delivered as above mentioned, this article and a bill of sale now given, to be void and of none effect." The appellee also proved he performed the stipulation on his part, and returned the negroes to Robert Hall, sen. in Fayette county in 1804. That Robert Hall, sen. died in February or March 1806, and this suit was commenced in October 1810. The first question which occurs as proper for consideration in deciding this cause is, whether the appellee has shown such a right to the negroes as will support an action of detinue. A person who has the absolute property in good and the right to immediate possession may support this action, although he has never had the actual possession--1 Chitty on Plea. 117. To ascertain the true intent and meaning of the contract between Robert Hall, sen. and the appellee, both the bill of sale and article of agreement should be taken into consideration. They were executed at the same time, with reference to each other, and in relation to the same subject, and form essential parts of one entire agreement. By the bill of sale, the absolute right to the negroes seems to be transferred to the appellee; but by the article of agreement, it appears the appellee's right depended upon the performance of certain stipulations on his part; and from both taken together, it was evidently the understanding of the parties, at the time of making the agreement, that the appellee should, on the performance of the stipulations in the article on his part, have a right to Ellis and Paul, to be enjoyed after the decease of Robert Hall, sen. Robert Hall is dead, and the appellee has performed his part of the agreement. He has therefore acquired the absolute right of property, and the right to the possession. But it is urged on the part of the appellant, that a right derived under an executory contract will not support detinue, and it is contended that the right of the appellee is of that description; and therefore it is inferred this action cannot be maintained. This position is certainly inadmissible. It is not the mode of contracting, but the right acquired that gives the action. Whether the right is acquired under an executory or executed contract, detinue may be supported. In Shepherd's Touchstone 224, it is said, if one man sell to another a horse or any other thing for money or other valuable consideration, and the same thing is to be delivered to the purchaser at a day certain, and by the agreement a day is set for the payment of the money; or all or part of the money is paid or earnest money is given to the seller; in all these cases there is a good bargain and sale of the thing, to alter the property thereof, and the seller may maintain an action for the thing bought. In Noy's Maxims 88, it is said if one sells his horse for money, he may keep him until he is paid; yet the property of the horse is by the bargain in the buyer; but if he presently tender the money to the seller and he does refuse it, the purchaser may take the horse, or have an action for the detainment. We think therefore the appellee has shown such a right of property, for which detinue may be supported. *3 Objections were made on the trial of this cause in the Court below, to the using of the bill of sale in evidence, unless its execution was proved by some of the subscribing witnesses. From the affidavit of the appellee, filed and made a part of the record, it appears he had made use of due and diligent search for the subscribing witnesses; that one of them is dead, that the other cannot be found; and if alive, is not within this Commonwealth. The affidavit of a party in a case circumstanced like the present, is competent to prove the death of the subscribing witnesses, or other circumstances for the purpose of letting in other evidence of the execution of a writing--2 Dall. 116. The affidavit of the appellee is sufficient for that purpose, and we have no doubt the Circuit Court decided correctly in overruling the objections to the evidence, and permitting other evidence of the execution of the bill of sale. Objections were likewise made to using the copy of the article of agreement in evidence, because notice was not given to the appellant, in whose possession the original was, before the trial to produce it. There appears to have been another trial between these parties for the same cause in the Clarke Circuit Court, when the orginal article was used as evidence; and that subsequent to the commencement of this action, an order was obtained from the Clarke Court, for each party to have permission to withdraw the papers filed in the cause, and to which they were entitled; that under that order the appellant applied to the clerk of that Court, some short time before trial of this cause, and obtained the article, a copy of which was kept by the clerk. It is in the general true, that when an original instrument is in the hands of a party against whom it is intended to be given in evidence, no evidence of its contents can be received, unless notice has been given to produce it. But when notice should be given, must depend on the circumstances attending each particular case. In the present case, the appellee derived his title to the negroes in question, through the article; that it of right belonged to him; that there had been previously a trial between the same parties, in the Clarke Circuit Court, relative to the same subject; on which trial the article was used as evidence, and consequently the appellant knew it was necessary in the trial of this cause; that the appellant procured the possession of the article, under an order of the Clarke Circuit Court, authorizing each party to withdraw from the office of that Court the papers to which they were entitled. And although no notice was given the appellant before the commencement of the trial to produce the article, yet notice was given several days before its termination. We cannot say therefore, that the Court below erred in overruling the objections of the appellant to the using of the copy of the article, under all the circumstances attending this cause. The only remaining question which we deem necessary to consider is, the effect of the statute of limitations on this case. The statute does not commence running until the cause of action accrues. From the construction which we have given the contract through which the appellee derives title, his cause of action did not accrue until the death of Robert Hall, sen. Until then he had no right to the possession of the negroes, and consequently could not have maintained this action. Robert Hall sen. died in 1806, less than five years previous to the commencement of this action; the statute therefore cannot bar this action. *4 Judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1812. McDowell v. Hall 2 Bibb 610, 5 Ky. 610, 1812 WL 648 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
