(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 300,  20 Ky. 300 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1423 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Shrowyer v. Cates. Apr. 6, 1827. *1 Head Rights. Entries. Forfeiture. Redemption. Actual Settlers. Limitation. Equity. APPEAL FROM THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT; BEN. SHACKLEFORD, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 429 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k428 Defenses Not Interposed in Former Action 228k429 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Length of possession should be pleaded in bar to the action at law, and is not the subject of equitable interposition, to relieve against the judgment. Public Lands 317 k 151(.5) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(.5) k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 317k151) Where, after a sale of public land to the state, for nonpayment of the state price, the owner redeemed within the time limited by the statute, the redeemed claim is valid as against the claim of persons actually settled on the land. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This is a contest between adverse claimants to land; the claim of each originating under the laws of this State, and founded upon certificates of settlement granted by the county court of Christian. Case of adversary claims to land under Statutes of this State. Cates being the elder patentee, and having recovered in ejectment, Shrowyer filed his bill in equity for relief, claiming under Andrew Reed, to whom, he alleges a certificate was granted by the county court of Christian, for four hundred acres of land, containing the following location: "Christian County Court, February Term, 1803. No. 1075. Andrew Reed locates four hundred acres of land on the waters of Little river; beginning at three Post oaks, thence south, ten degrees west, two hundred and ninety-two poles; thence south, eighty degrees east, two hundred and nineteen poles, and at right angles for quantity, to include his improvement." Reed's certificate, claimed by Shrowyer. This certificate was surveyed on the 28th day of February, 1803, and afterwards patented to Reed, under whom Shrowyer claims. Cates claims under the following certificate: Hargis' certificate, claimed by Cates. "Christian County Court, May 11th, 1802. William Hargis is entitled to three hundred acres of land, by virtue of his having settled the same agreeable to an act of Assembly, and located as follows, to wit: William Hargis, enters three hundred acres of land, beginning at a Post oak, running so as to include the prairara, going by the name of Widow's field." The land contained in this certificate, was sold on the 13th day of November, 1813, by the Register of the Land Office, to the State, for the second installment, and was redeemed on the 24th of September, 1814, in the mode provided by law. It was again sold for the third installment, and Mark Hardin became the purchaser. Hardin afterwards sold it to Cates, in whose name the survey was made, and the patent issued in 1815. *2 Hargis' claim sold to the State and redeemed. On hearing, the court below dismissed Shrowyer's bill and dissolved his injunction with cost. From that decree, Shrowyer has appealed. Decree of the circuit court. The first question proper to be noticed, involves an inquiry into the sufficiency of the location contained in the certificate granted by the county court to Reed, under whom Shrowyer claims. An objection was also taken in argument to the certificate on the ground of its not containing an express grant to Reed; but we shall pass over that objection by remarking, that although there is not an express grant contained in the certificate, it is but rational to presume, that the court adjudged Reed to be entitled to four hundred acres of land, from the fact of his having been permitted to locate that quantity of acres in court. Certificate of the county court, that "A. R. locates," held equal to, "is entitled to," &c. But conceding that the objection which was taken to the certificate is untenable, we concur with the court below in the opinion, that the location contained in the certificate can not be sustained. Call for the improvement of the grantee--on which it appeared he resided, is sufficient. The improvement called for is sufficiently identified, and from the fact of Reed's residence upon the land when the certificate was granted, the improvement must be presumed notorious at that date. But there is nothing in the location that goes to give such certainty and precision to the beginning called for, as to enable subsequent adventurers, with safety, to appropriate the vacant residuum. Such as should be disposed to appropriate vacant land might discover from the location, that the beginning was on three Post oaks, but they would be unable from thence to learn whether or not the three post oaks were marked, and if not marked, they would possess no means of distinguishing the post oaks intended for the beginning from other trees of the same sort. Possessing, therefore, no means of distinguishing the trees called for as the beginning from others, subsequent locators can not be said to derive from the location that sort of information which is necessary to enable them to avoid it. And if we advert to the evidence in the cause, it will be discovered, that instead of obviating the uncertainty in the location, the embarrassments to subsequent adventurers will be increased. For there is not only a total absence of proof upon the subject of any post oaks being marked at the date of the certificate, but it is clearly proved, that in the vicinity of the post oaks, at which the survey of Reed was made to begin, there are other post oaks which equally well fit the call of his location. Call for Post Oaks, not saying whether marked, not good. Under these circumstances, therefore, we have no hesitation in saying, that the location of Reed is insufficient. But admitting the location not to be sufficient to authorize relief against an elder legal title, regularly derived under a certificate of settlement, it was contended, that under the circumstances of this case, relief should be extended to Shrowyer against the title held by Cates: 1st, because the location of Reed had been surveyed and was settled upon, and actually occupied by Reed or those claiming under him, when the land claimed by Cates was sold for the second installment due thereon by the Register, and when it was afterwards redeemed. *3 Actual settlement relied on by Shrowyer. And 2nd, because Shrowyer and those claiming under him, had been actually possessed of the land before the commencement of the ejectment by Cates, sufficiently long to protect him against the claim of Cates both at law and in equity. Possession. With respect to this latter argument, we would remark that the length of Shrowyer's possession can afford no ground for his application to a court of equity. If his possession is of the sort that comes within the provisions of any law limiting the time of making entries, or bringing actions or suits for land, he should have availed himself of it on the trial at law, and not have laid by until after judgment, and then founded his application for relief in equity, upon his length of possession. The lapse of time prescribed by the Statute of limitations is a legal protection to the posession, and by the person in possession should be employed in defence of any action brought against him at law. If the possession has been of a sort that is effectual under the statute, it creates a legal bar, and of course is a matter of legal cognizance, and not properly the subject of equitable interposition, to relieve against the judgment at law. Length of possession is a legal bar to the action at law, and can not be relied on to enjoin the judgment. The other argument assumes for its base the erroneous position, that after land granted by the county court under the laws of this State, for the appropriation of vacant land, is stricken off to the State at the Register's sale for any installment due to the State, that as respects the adverse claims of others who actually reside upon the land, any subsequent redemption of the land, so stricken off, will be inoperative; and that any survey or patent, tho' afterwards made or obtained, will be actually void; and in support of that position, we were referred to the case of Dallam vs. Handley, 2 Marshall, 418. After a sale to the State for an installment, the owner had 11 months to redeem, before a forfeiture was incurred--in 1814________Until a forfeiture, the actual settler under an adversary claim, was not protected against the effect of a redemption. But it will be discovered by adverting to the law in force when the land claimed by Cates was stricken off to the state for the installment then due, that the owner of the land had eleven months to redeem the same; and it appears from the proof in the cause, that the land was redeemed within that time, so that there was, in fact, no forfeiture of the land for a failure to redeem in the time prescribed by law; and by the provisions of the law then in force, it was only where there was a forfeiture for failing to redeem within the proper time, that the redeemed claim is pronounced invalid, as to the claim of persons actually settled upon the land. The decision in the case to which we were referred in argument, contains nothing incompatible with this construction of the act. For in that case, there was not only a failure to redeem within the time allowed by the law in force when the land was stricken off to the State, but the redemption was also made after the passage of other acts, not in force in 1814, when the claim under which Cates holds was redeemed. *4 Diversity between this case and Dallam vs. Handley, 2 Mar., 418. Other questions were made in argument, but they are all either so obviously untenable or unsupported by any legal proof, that we have not thought them worthy particular notice. The decree must be affirmed with cost. Denny, for appellant; Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Shrowyer v. Cates 4 T.B.Mon. 300, 20 Ky. 300, 1827 WL 1423 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
