(Cite as: 3 Bibb 230,  6 Ky. 230 (Ky.),  1813 WL 663 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Logan v. Martha and Robert Steele. Nov. 25, 1813. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 68 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak68 k. Notice of taking. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k56(5)  Depositions) In trespass against several, a deposition may be read against one of the defendants, although the notice was served on him alone, and it contains statements conducing to prove the others guilty. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 71 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak69 Taking Testimony 307Ak71 k. Examination of witnesses. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k67  Depositions) If a deposition is written in the absence of the magistrate, and the other party cross-examines the witness, and does not object to the informality at the time, the deposition may be read. Evidence 157 k 155(7) 157 Evidence 157IV Admissibility in General 157IV(E) Competency 157k155 Evidence Admissible by Reason of Admission of  Similar Evidence of Adverse Party 157k155(7) k. Fraud or other wrongdoing. Most Cited  Cases In trespass for injuring property, if the plaintiff introduces witnesses to prove that the defendants are his enemies, and had threatened to injure his property, the defendants may introduce repellant testimony to show that the plaintiff had other enemies who had made similar threats. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS is an action of trespass, brought by Logan against the Steeles for breaking and entering his close, treading down and destroying his grass, burning his barn, and killing his horses, etc. The declaration contains several counts: not guilty was pleaded by the Steeles, and verdict and judgment obtained against Logan. In trespass, a notice to take a deposition served upon one only of several defend'ts, may be read as against that de'ft. That the deposition contains statements conducing to prove the others (who had no notice) guilty, is no cause for rejecting the deposition as against the one who had notice. A practice of suffering depositions to be drawn when the justice is not present, and afterward sworn to, ought not to be sanctioned. If a deposition is written in the absence of the justice, and the other party cross examines the witness and does not object at the time to his having been previously prepared, the deposition may be read. If the plaintiff introduces witnesses to prove that the defendants are his enemies, and had threatened to injure his property the defendant?? may introduce r??pellant testimony to show the plaintiff had other enemies who had made similar threats. In the progress of the cause in the Court below, an order was obtained and various depositions taken de bene esse; and on the trial Logan, the plaintiff, proved the witnesses whose depositions were taken were out of the State, and that regular notice had been given Martha Steele, one of the defendants, of the time and place of taking the depositions, and offered the depositions thus taken as evidence. The attorney for the defendants objected to the depositions being used as evidence, because notice had not been given to both of the defendants: the Court sustained the objection, and would not permit the depositions to be used as to either of the defendants. Whether, therefore, this decision of the Court is correct, is the first question for decision? We are of opinion it is not. In actions of this kind, the plaintiff is not bound to support his action against all of the defendants, or fail as to all. The jury may find part of the defendants guilty, and the others not guilty; or they may find one defendant guilty of part of the trespass alleged in the declaration, and other defendants guilty of other parts of the trespass--see 2 Tidd's Prac. 805, and the authorities there cited. If then we are correct in these positions, of which there is no doubt, it necessarily results that the depositions should have been used against Martha Steele, to whom notice had been regularly given: for it would be preposterous in the extreme for the law to authorize a recovery against one defendant only, in an action against two, and yet the rules of evidence not to permit proof as to one, unless the evidence is admissible as to all of the defendants. The circumstance that the depositions contain evidence conducing to prove the guilt of the other defendant, can make no difference: for the Court presiding on the trial are competent by appropriate instructions to inform the jury what part of the depositions are evidence, and against whom to be regarded. The possibility of such evidence producing a bias on the minds of the jury prejudicial to the defendant against whom it is not received, notwithstanding proper instructions are given by the Court, cannot affect the principle: for it is a consequence resulting from the voluntary act of the defendants themselves in uniting in a joint plea and trial, and should not, we apprehend, be turned to the prejudice of the plaintiff. *2 The deposition of John Crethers, taken de bene esse, on the part of the plaintiff, was also rejected by the Court, notwithstanding the defendants' counsel attended before the justice and cross-examined the witness, because it was proven the whole of the deposition, except the cross-examination, is in the handwriting of a nephew of the plaintiff, who was not present when the deposition was taken. Whether this deposition should have been excluded, although a question not necessary to be decided in this cause, yet as the question may again occur in the Court below, seems proper for consideration. It is believed the practice has become very general, for justices not to write the depositions of witnesses, but to have it done by some person in their presence, and under their immediate inspection. This practice often tends greatly to the dispatch of business, and is liable to no serious objection; but we are not aware the practice has become common for justices to receive and certify depositions drawn by the parties, or others in his absence, to be used as evidence. If, however, such a practice does prevail, it cannot be sanctioned, and no deposition so taken should be used as evidence, unless by some act either express or implied the party against whom it is intended to be used has waived all objections to the manner of its being taken. But where, as in the present case, the party by his attorney appears before the justice at the taking of the deposition, makes no objection as to the manner of taking it, but cross-examines the witness, we think he should not, therefore, on the trial, be permitted to avail himself of the objection. On the trial of this cause in the Court below, the plaintiff proved the defendants were his enemies, and had threatened to injure his property. The defendants then produced witnesses to prove the plaintiff had other enemies in the neighborhood, who had also threatened to injure his property. The admission of this evidence was opposed by the plaintiff, but the objection was overruled and the evidence admitted. We can perceive no error in the Court receiving the evidence. It was calculated to repel the presumption which might otherwise arise against the defendants from the evidence of a like description used against them. The judgment, however, must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court for a new trial to be had. Ky.App. 1813. Logan v. Steele 3 Bibb 230, 6 Ky. 230, 1813 WL 663 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
