(Cite as: 4 Bibb 233,  7 Ky. 233 (Ky.),  1815 WL 740 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cockran v. Bowles. Nov. 6, 1815. *1 An action lies upon a promise to execute a bill of sale for a slave with clause of warranty against the effects of the appearance of a cancer, and a refusal to execute the bill of sale. But the declaration only laying the promise, and the breach, without any allegation as to the effect of said disease, evidence to enhance the damages by reason of the disease, was inadmissible. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 405 343 Sales 343VIII Remedies of Buyer 343VIII(C) Actions for Breach of Contract 343k405 k. Right of Action. Most Cited  Cases An action for damages is maintainable for a breach of a promise to execute a bill of sale for a slave with a clause of warranty against the effects of the appearance of a certain disease. Sales 343 k 437(1) 343 Sales 343VIII Remedies of Buyer 343VIII(D) Actions and Counterclaims for Breach of Warranty 343k433 Pleading 343k437 Issues, Proof, and  Variance 343k437(1) k. Issues Raised by and Evidence  Admissible Under Pleadings. Most Cited Cases Where, in an action on a promise to execute a bill of sale for a slave with a clause of warranty against the effects of the appearance of a certain disease, the declaration only lays the promise and the breach, without any allegation as to the effect of the disease, evidence to embrace the damages by reason of the disease is inadmissible. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. COCKRAN sold to Bowles a negro man at the price of $550, and by the contract of sale promised that upon the receipt of a named sum (part of the price) he would make a bill of sale warranting the negro should sustain no injury from a disease in the mouth, in appearance like a cancer. Bowles paid the sum stipulated; and although demanded, Cockran refused to give a bill of sale with warranty, and for that refusal this suit was brought by Bowles to obtain compensation in damages. There can be no question but what Cockran by failing to make the bill of sale with warranty, has subjected himself to an action for a breach of his promise; but as the declaration in this case contains no charge of the unsoundness of the negro, it is contended the Court below erred in admitting evidence at the trial as to the condition of the negro's mouth. Whether the evidence was or was not admissible, turns upon the nature of the damages which it conduced to prove. If the damages necessarily arise from the facts charged in the declaration, then, as they are implied by law, according to the rule that presumptions of law need not be averred or pleaded, without a special allegation of unsoundness, the evidence was properly admitted; but if the damages do not necessarily arise from those facts, then as they would consequently not be implied by law, to prevent the surprise which might otherwise ensue to the other party at the trial, a special allegation should be made before evidence conducing to prove those damages ought to be received.-- See 1 Chitty on plead. 387. *2 That the damages which the evidence objected to conduced to prove, do not necessarily arise from the facts charged in the declaration, we have no doubt. It is perfectly clear that this action might be maintained even were the negro in perfect health. The breach of promise forms the gist of the action, and those damages only incident to that breach can be considered as necessarily arising from it. To enable the plaintiff in the Court below to prove the situation of the negro, we think, therefore, a special charge should have been made in the declaration; and as that is not done, that Court should not have rejected the evidence. The judgment must consequently be reversed, and the cause remanded to that Court for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. The appellant must recover his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Cockran v. Bowles 4 Bibb 233, 7 Ky. 233, 1815 WL 740 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
