(Cite as: 4 Bibb 426,  7 Ky. 426 (Ky.),  1816 WL 808 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Henry v. Clark. 1816. *1 One who enters claiming by marked boundaries, is possessed to the extent of the boundaries. The entry of one within the lines and fencing of another, without his assent, constitutes a forcible entry. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 4 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k4 k. Nature and Elements of Forcible Entry. Most Cited Cases It is not necessary to prove force to maintain an action of forcible entry and detainer. Mere entry on land against the will of the party in actual lawful possession is sufficient. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. CLARK having sued out from a justice of the peace a warrant against Henry for a forcible entry, and the jury of the inquest having found Henry guilty, he by a traverse brought the case before the Circuit Court; and upon the trial of the issue joined to the traverse, the inquisition was found true, and judgment of restitution for the land and premises described in the warrant rendered by the Court in favor of Clark; to reverse which Henry has appealed to this Court. We are of opinion the judgment must be affirmed. It being proven that Clark resided upon the tract of land claimed by him, his possession, according to the act regulating forcible entries, extended to the marked boundaries of his claim; and although the marked line of his survey between two of the corners was proven to diverge from a direct line, the Court did right in directing the jury that the entry of Henry without the assent of Clark within the marked lines and fencing, was in law a forcible entry. This judgment of restitution given by the Court is substantially good. By describing the land and premises with reference to the warrant, the judgment contains as much certainty as according to the plain and obvious import of the act upon that subject should be required. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. Henry v. Clark 4 Bibb 426, 7 Ky. 426, 1816 WL 808 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
