(Cite as: 3 Bibb 371,  6 Ky. 371 (Ky.),  1814 WL 795 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Shaw v. Hurd. Jul. 8, 1814. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 303(4) 95 Contracts 95V Performance or Breach 95k303 Excuses for Nonperformance or Defects 95k303(4) k. Performance Prevented by Other Party or Third  Person. Most Cited Cases If the covenantee hinders the performance of a covenant, the covenantor is excused for nonperformance. Contracts 95 k 303(4) 95 Contracts 95V Performance or Breach 95k303 Excuses for Nonperformance or Defects 95k303(4) k. Performance Prevented by Other Party or Third  Person. Most Cited Cases A refusal by the covenantee, after the stipulated time of performance has elapsed, to permit the covenantor to commence his work, is no excuse for nonperformance. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS was an action brought by Shaw in the Court below on a covenant made by Hurd to commence building a barn for Shaw against the middle of May, 1808, and finish it against the 1st of July, 1808. Covenants performed was pleaded, and leave given to give the special matter in evidence. A verdict was obtained in favor of Hurd, and the application of Shaw for a new trial overruled and judgment rendered on the verdict, from which this writ of error with supersedeas has been prosecuted. Covenant to commence building a barn by a certain time, covenantor will be excused from an action, if by the act of the covenantee he has been prevented from performing the work; but unless he was prevented by obligee, he should have commenced the work in time, and not having done so, the act of the obligee in refusing to permit the obligor to begin the work after the day appointed, is not an excuse for the obligor. The only points we shall notice in determining this cause grow out of the refusal of the Court to grant a new trial. That motion was made on the grounds of the verdict being contrary to law and evidence. It is plain Hurd did not on the trial in the Court below support the plea of covenants performed. There was a total lack of evidence to prove a barn was built by him for Shaw. But as Hurd was permitted to avail himself of any legal defense to the action, it becomes necessary to inquire whether, as is contended by Hurd, he was prevented by Shaw from performing the work according to his covenant? It will not be denied but what Hurd will be excused from this action if by the act of Shaw he has been prevented from performing the work according to his covenant. But unless Hurd was discharged or prevented by Shaw, he should clearly have commenced the work against the middle of May, 1808, and if he failed to commence the work against that period no subsequent act of Shaw in refusing to receive the work can operate as an excuse for the failure. The evidence proves Hurd had a number of shingles made, about ten miles distant from Shaw's on the middle of May; but there is nothing in the cause to show Shaw at that date had any knowledge thereof; and from other circumstances in the cause it is apparent Hurd did not intend them for the work in question: for it seems several days after the work should have been commenced, Hurd met Shaw in the road, not far distant from his house, and told him he was going to build his barn; Shaw then replied, he was too late, and that he would not then take the work, as he had not come in time; to which Hurd answered he then tendered the work. Had Hurd commenced the work according to contract, and been going in good faith with an intent to finish it, when it was perceived Shaw refused to receive the work, owing to its not having been commenced in time, that objection would then have been removed by a reply of the work having been begun in proper time. As this was not done, but a tender then made of the work, the inference is strong the work had not been commenced. But if it were commenced, as Shaw had no knowledge thereof, his refusing to permit Hurd to begin, under the circumstances of this case, should not operate as a discharge to Hurd from his covenant: for as Hurd was bound to do the work in a specified time, it was incumbent on him to do everything necessary on his part to a compliance with his undertaking. He should, therefore, if the work had been begun, have informed Shaw thereof, and been prepared to perform the balance. This was not however done; we think, therefore, the evidence did not justify the verdict of the jury, and that the Court below should have awarded a new trial. *2 The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, a new trial awarded, and such other and farther proceedings had as may be necessary to a final decision. Ky.App. 1814. Shaw v. Hurd 3 Bibb 371, 6 Ky. 371, 1814 WL 795 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
