(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 602,  10 Ky. 602 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1183 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Elizabeth Redd et al. v. Elliot Bohannon. Jun. 7, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Boundaries 59 k 36(5) 59 Boundaries 59II Evidence, Ascertainment, and Establishment 59k34 Admissibility of Evidence 59k36 Documentary Evidence 59k36(5) k. Records of Surveys and Maps. Most Cited  Cases A surveyor's report that certain lines and corners represent A.'s survey is no evidence that those lines and corners were made for B. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court sustaining the entry under which Bohannon, who was complainant in that court, claims the superior equity to the land in contest, and directing the heirs of Redd, who holds the elder legal title under an adverse claim, to surrender their title. The entry under which Bohannon claims is in the following words:--Dec. 16, 1782; Samuel Givens enters 800 acres of land, on a pre-emption warrant, on the waters of the south fork of Elkton, near Lees town road, adjoining William M'Connell's pre-emption of 1,000 acres; beginning at his west corner, thence west 250 poles, thence south, at right angles for quantity. The entry of M'Connell is in the following words:--Dec. 6, 1782, William M'Connell enters 1,000 acres of land on a pre-emption warrant, on the south side of the south fork of Elkhorn, on a trace made by Crittenden &Co., from his camp to Licking; beginning three-quarters of a mile nearly northwest of a spring and improvement adjoining Taylor's survey, running west 400 poles, thence at right angles for quantity. We are of opinion that the entry of M'Connell can not be sustained. The spring and improvement called for in that entry are represented on the connected plat, and identified by the evidence, but they are not proven to have possessed anything like common notoriety at the date of the entry. A surveyor's report that a figure represents a survey called for in an appendant entry is no proof of the verity of that fact though the correspondence of the corner trees (if reported) with those called for in the original survey, might conduce to shew that fact. Aided by the description contained in the entry, a subsequent adventurer, if at the place represented on the plat as the southern boundary of Taylor's survey of 3,000 acres might, perhaps, by the exercise of reasonable diligence, have found the spring and improvement; but there is nothing in the cause which will authorize us to say that Taylor's survey might have been found at the date of the entry. The evidence not only fails to prove the survey to have been notorious, but there is no evidence of the identity of the lines and corners of the survey. The surveyor, it is true, has delineated on the connected plat, made out in this case, lines and corners which he reports to represent Taylor's survey; but that report affords no evidence of the fact of those lines and corners having been made for Taylor. If the surveyor had reported the existence of marked corners and lines corresponding with the lines and corners of Taylor's certificate of survey that correspondence would have formed evidence of the lines and corners reported being the lines and corners of Taylor. In this case, however, the surveyor has not only failed to report the description of timber found at the corners delineated on the plat for Taylor's survey, but the certificate of Taylor's survey it not exhibited in the record. *2 If, therefore, M'Connell's entry be invalid, it follows that the entry of Givens, under which Bohannon claims, can not be sustained, and that his bill ought to have been dismissed. The decree must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded and Bohannon's bill dismised with cost. Pope for appellant, Talbot for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Redd v. Bohannon 3 A.K.Marsh. 602, 10 Ky. 602, 1821 WL 1183 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
