(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 514,  8 Ky. 514 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1064 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Travis Davis v. Cuthbert Harrison. May 27, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Covenants 108 k 106 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k106 k. Grounds of Action in General. Most Cited Cases Where there is a covenant to pay certain sums at different times, an action will lie for each breach thereof. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent, Judge Rowan. Davis having recovered a judgment at law against Cuthbert Payton for about l 715, Payton, for the purpose of being relieved, exhibited his bill in equity, and obtained the order of a judge for an injunction to the judgment, upon his executing bond with Harrison his security. Accordingly, on the 21st day of March, 1798, Payton and Harrison executed their bond to Davis, under the penalty of one thousand four hundred and thirty-six pounds, subject, nevertheless, to the following condition:-- "The condition of the above obligation is such, that whereas, the above bound Cuthbert Payton has prayed for and obtained an injunction in chancery, from the honorable James G. Hunter, one of the judges for the supreme court for the Bardstown district, to stay all further proceedings on a judgment obtained by the said Travis Davis, against him, in the said court, until the same shall be heard in equity. Now if the said Cuthbert Payton shall well and truly pay unto the said Travis Davis all such sums of money and tobacco, which are now due, or hereafter shall become due, to the said Davis, and also all such damages and costs as shall be awarded by said court, in case the injunction aforesaid shall be dissolved; then the above obligation to be void else to remain in full force, &c." The suit in chancery after being prepared by the parties having come on to hearing, the injunction, by a decree of the court of original jurisdiction, was dissolved for l161, and made perpetual for the residue of the judgment at law. After this, and without any suit having been brought against him but with the assent of Davis, Harrison appeared in court and confessed judgment in favor of Davis for the l161, and has since actually paid the amount thereof. Davis, then, by a writ of error, brought the chancery cause to this court, and finally obtained a reversal of the decree; and the cause having been remanded to the court below a decree was there entered, according to the opinion of this court, dissolving the injunction as to the whole of the judgment at law. This action of covenant was then brought by Davis, upon the condition of the injunction bond, for the purpose of subjecting Harrison to the payment of so much of the judgment at law as the injunction was, in the first instance, perpetuated for, but for which it was ultimately dissolved together with the cost and damages. But the court below, under a state of pleading involving the question determined, that the judgment confessed by Harrison for the l161, barred the action; and whether it is such a bar, is the only enquiry to which the attention of this court need be directed. *2 From the very nature and object of the injunction, there is no doubt but that it might have been either partially dissolved at different times, or entirely at the same time. And as the injunction bond was required for the purpose of securing Davis in the payment of what should be ascertained to be justly due to him upon the judgment, we apprehend the condition should be construed to contain stipulations to pay such sums, and at such times, as might, either by a dissolution of the injunction in part or in whole be ascertained to be just. Upon a dissolution, therefore, either in part or whole, the condition would, of necessity, be broken, and to obtain indemnity, in such a case it is perfectly clear, that Davis might either bring an action of debt upon the penalty of the bond, or covenant upon the condition. On the partial dissolution of an injunction, the plaintiff may elect to bring debt or covenant on the injunction bond; if debt, the judgment is for the penalty, and merges the contract, but execution goes only for the amount dissolved, and costs; on a farther dissolution (the judgment for the penalty yet standing) a scire facias, not a new suit, is the remedy. In covenant the contract is not merged except as to the breaches assigned and a new action may be maintained on the happening of farther breaches. In an action of debt, however, judgment ought regularly to be entered for the penalty; and although execution should be sued for so much only as the damages assessed upon the breaches assigned, and cost, yet as by a subsequent dissolution of the residue of the injunction, other breaches might happen, under the statute regulating proceedings in such cases, the judgment would stand as a surety for such breaches, and to obtain execution for dam ages, subsequently accruing upon the breaches, a scire facias should be prosecuted upon the judgment. But if upon the happenings of other breaches instead of suing out a scire facias upon the judgment another action of debt should be brought upon the bond, it most unquestionably could not be sustained. For as the penalty is an entire duty, it forms but one debt; and according to Haggins' case, 6 Coke, 45, but one action of debt can be maintained upon the obligation. But whilst, it is admitted but one action of debt can be maintained, as the condition is susceptible of breaches at different times, it is denied, that the same rule prevails in the action of covenant. But on the contrary, it is well settled that for each failure to pay according to the stipulations contained either in a promise or covenant, the promise or covenant is broken; and where there are covenants to pay at different times, for each breach an action of covenant may be maintained: 3 Saund. 337: Co.Lit. 292. b; Bacon's Abri.??title """"debt," letter B. From what has been said, therefore, we apprehend, it follows conclusively, that the confession of judgment by Harrison can not operate as a bar to the present action. *3 That judgment, as it is for but l161, is not for more than might have been then recovered in an action of covenant, and as if rendered in covenant, it would not bar an action of covenant brought upon a subsequent breach so as it was entered upon the voluntary confession of Harrison without suit, it can not be more operative. The judgment of the court below must therefore be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to that court, and such other and further proceedings there had, as may be consistent with this opinion. B. Hardin and Wickliffe for appellant, Pope for appellee. Ky.App. 1819. Davis v. Harrison 1 A.K.Marsh. 514, 8 Ky. 514, 1819 WL 1064 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
