(Cite as: 5 Litt. 228,  15 Ky. 228 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1417 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Royster v. Shackleford, &e. May 29, 1824. *1 FROM THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 114 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k114 k. Estoppel or Waiver. Most Cited  Cases A. brought his bill against B. to cancel a contract for the conveyance of land, for delay in conveying, and on account of an outstanding equity. It appearing that the deed was made according to contract, and that A. knew of the outstanding equity before the deed was made, it was held that the bill must be dismissed. CAPERTON for plaintiff; CRITTENDEN and TURNER for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. On the 16th day of April, 1819, a contract was made between George Shackleford and Mitchell Royster, and reduced to writing by an article of that date. By the contract, Shackleford sold the lot of ground near Richmond, which he had previously purchased of Dr. William Letcher, to Royster, and on his part stipulated to deliver the possession thereof the next day, and covenanted to convey the lot as it was then enclosed, and its appurtenances, to Royster, by a general warranty deed, against the first of November, 1820; in consideration, whereof, Royster was to pay one thousand dollars, one-half in six months from the date of the contract, and the other half within twelve months, and executed separate notes to Shackleford therefor. Royster also covenanted on his part, to deliver the possession of two other lots in the town of Richmond, to Shackleford, on the next day, and to convey the same by general warranty deed, to Shackleford, against the first of November, 1820. These two lots which were to be conveyed by Royster, were estimated by the parties at two thousand dollars, making, in connection with the two notes of five hundred dollars each, the sum of three thousand dollars, the entire consideration which was to be given by Royster to Shackleford, for the lot sold by him. A bill in equity brought to cancel a contract for the conveyance of town lots, for negligence in not promptly conveying the title and an inability to do so, because of an outstanding equity: Refused, because it appeared the deed was made according to contract; that the complainant accepted the deed without requiring the production of the derivation of the vender's title, and that the purchaser was acquainted with the equity, and the persons alleged to hold it, disclaimed any interest therein. One of the five hundred dollar notes was afterwards assigned by Shackleford to Joel Embry, who, after the time of payment had elapsed, brought suit thereon at law, and recovered judgment against Royster. Royster then exhibited his bill in equity against Shackleford and Embry. After setting out the preceding facts, Royster charges, that supposing Shackleford to be equitably entitled to the lot, under a previous purchase of Dr. Letcher, he made the contract without having inspected the writings which had been executed between Letcher and Shackleford; but he has since been informed, that George Shackleford, with whom he contracted, derived, under his purchase from Letcher, an equity in but one moiety of the lot; that the purchase from Letcher was made in the joint names of George and Benjamin Shackleford, the latter of whom has since departed this life, without having disposed of his interest in the lot, leaving many children, all of whom are infants, and that the purchase money agreed to be given by the Shacklefords for the lot, has never been paid to Letcher, who still asserts a lien upon the lot for the same. Royster asked and obtained an injunction against the judgment at law, recovered by Embry, and prayed the contract between him and Shackleford to be cancelled, &c. *2 The purchaser accepting a deed, without objecting to the title, because the wife of a former vender had not relinquished her dower, can not afterwards object to it; he must look to the covenant of warranty in his deed. George Shackleford answered, admitting that upon making the purchase of Letcher, the writings were executed in the joint names of him and Benjamin Shackleford; but he denies that the contract was made by the co-operation or consent of Benjamin, or any other person legally authorized by him. He states that Benjamin and himself were engaged in a partnership, formed for the purpose of purchasing tobacco for the New Orleans market, and supposing that Benjamin might be inclined to become interested in the lot, he made the purchase of Letcher, and drew the writings in the joint names of Benjamin and himself; but he alleges that the purchase was made by him without consulting Benjamin, and that before Benjamin ever ratified or confirmed the purchase, he departed this life. He also states that Royster was fully apprised of the contract with Letcher, before he purchased, having previously seen and inspected the writings which were executed by Letcher and the Shacklefords. He, moreover, states that suit was brought by Letcher, against the administrators of Benjamin Shackleford, upon the bond given for the purchase money, and that the administrators filed a plea of non est factum; that he has since paid the purchase money to Letcher, and received from him a title to the lot; and that in pursuance to his covenant, he did, on the first of November, 1820, actually convey, by deed of general warranty, the lot to Royster, who accepted the same. He denies that the heirs of Benjamin Shackleford have or pretend any claim to the lot, and by his answer, which he makes a cross bill, he makes Letcher, the administrators and the heirs of Benjamin Shackleford, defendants, and calls upon them severally to respond to his various allegations, &c. A court of equity will, in cases of a very peculiar and extraordinary character only, compel a purchaser of land to receive a title to it, in lieu of damages which he may have recovered against the vender, for failing to convey. Letcher admits the contract to have been made by George Shackleford, by whom the writings were signed in his own name, as well as the name of Benjamin Shackleford. He admits that he has received the purchase money from George Shackleford, and conveyed the lot to him. The administrators and heirs of Benjamin Shackleford, each deny that their intestate ever contracted, or authorized any other person to contract with Letcher for the lot. They deny the authority of George Shackleford to execute the writings to Letcher in the name of their ancestor, and they disclaim all interest in the lot, &c. Royster, by an amendment to his bill, repeats his ignorance of the contract between Letcher and Shackleford, when he made the purchase of Shackleford. He admits, that on the first of November, 1820, a paper was handed to him by George Shackleford, which, after reading, he discovered to be a deed for the lot; but he denies having accepted it in discharge of the covenant of Shackleford. He states, that upon discovering it to be a deed, he informed Shackleford, his counsel was absent, and that he knew not what to do; but he would, the first opportunity, consult his counsel, and probably the business could be arranged; that he applied to his counsel, and being advised to return the deed to Shackleford, he accordingly did so. He states, that when the deed was presented to him, Shackleford exhibited no evidence of title, and he is still unadvised whether or not Shackleford was possessed of the title. He, moreover, states that George Shackleford has prosecuted suit upon his covenant to convey the two lots in the town of Richmond, and has succeeded in recovering a judgment at law for two thousand dollars, the price at which those lots were estimated in the contract with Shackleford; but he charges that he has the legal title to those lots, and insists that Shackleford should be compelled to receive the title in lieu of the damages, if the court should be of opinion that the contract ought not to be cancelled. He asked and obtained an injunction against the damages for which Shackleford had recovered judgment at law, &c. *3 The court below pronounced a decree dismissing Royster's bill and dissolving his injunction with damages and costs. Shackleford was also decreed to pay the defendants to his cross bill, their costs. To reverse that decree, Royster has prosecuted this writ of error with supersedeas. From the preceding statement, it will be perceived that Royster's object in exhibiting his bill and amended bill, is twofold: 1st, To obtain a cancelment of the contract between him and Shackleford; or, if that can not be effected, 2dly, to compel Shackleford, in lieu of the two thousand dollars for which he recovered a judgment at law, to accept the title to the two lots which Royster covenanted to convey as part of the consideration for which Shackleford sold the lot near Richmond. In reviewing the decree of the court below, we will, therefore, pursue the order taken by Royster in his bill, and enquire whether or not, under either aspect, he has shown himself entitled to the aid of a court of equity. Preliminary to this inquiry, it is proper to premise, that in strict accordance to his stipulations, Shackleford appears to have executed and delivered to Royster, on the first of November, 1820, a deed of conveyance, with a clause of general warranty, for the lot sold by him. At the time the deed was delivered, it is true, Shackleford failed to exhibit to Royster his claim of title, as derived from the commonwealth; but the deed is proved to have been accepted by Royster, without requiring any additional evidence of Shackleford's ability to convey, and the title papers now contained in the record show conclusively that Shackleford was at that time possessed of the legal title. It is apparent, therefore, that there exists no sufficient cause for canceling the contract, on the score of Shackleford's negligence in not promptly conveying the legal title of the lot to Royster. It is not, however, exclusively on the score of neglect in Shackleford's not conveying the legal title, that a cancelment of the contract is sought by Royster. The contract is sought to be cancelled mainly on the ground of an outstanding equity in the heirs of Benjamin Shackleford, to a moiety of the lot, and a fraudulent concealment of that equity from Royster, at the time of contracting, as well as at the time of executing and delivering the deed of conveyances by George Shackleford. Were it admitted that the heirs of Benjamin Shackleford held an equity in a moiety of the lot, the propriety of decreeing a cancelment of the contract would nevertheless not be perceived; for the evidence conduces satisfactorily to prove, that previous to the contract, and whilst the parties were discoursing upon the subject, Shackleford presented his written contract with Letcher, for the lot, to Royster, for his inspection and examination. Royster must, therefore, be presumed to have known the nature and extent of George Shackleford's claim upon Letcher, for the lot, before he concluded his purchase, and of course ought not to be allowed to avoid that contract, on account of any alleged defect in Shackleford's equity, which appears on the face of his contract with Letcher.?? But we do not admit that the heirs of Benjamin Shackleford have any equity in any portion of the lot. The covenant which Letcher gave to convey the lot, it is true, purports to oblige him to make the title to George and Benjamin Shackleford, jointly, and the evidence shows conclusively that the bonds given to Letcher for the price, were executed in the joint names of both the Shacklefords; but it is also in proof, that the contract with Letcher was made by George Shackleford alone, and the covenant of Letcher accepted by him, and the bonds to Letcher executed by him, without having previously consulted or obtained the consent of Benjamin Shackleford. And not only so, but in the suit Letcher brought against the administrators of Benjamin Shackleford, upon one of the bonds given for the price of the lot, they controverted his right to recover, by pleading non est factum; and in this suit, the administrators, as well as the heirs of Benjamin Shackleford, each deny that their intestate, either in person or by any lawfully authorized agent, ever assented to the contract with Letcher, and disclaim all interest in the lot. *4 Under these circumstances, it would be absurd, to suppose that the heirs of Benjamin Shackleford may hereafter assert claim to, and recover any part of the lot. Were it even conceded, that as infants they will not, after arriving at full age, be estopped by their answers, from controverting the facts therein admitted and relied on in this contest, we apprehend, the circumstance of the administrator's having successfully repelled the attempt of Letcher to subject the personal estate of their intestate to the payment of the price agreed to be given for the lot, should at all times induce the sound discretion of a court of equity, to withhold its aid in favor of any attempt which may be made by the heirs to claim an interest in the lot. In argument, an objection was taken to the title of Shackleford, which it may be proper here to notice. In deducing his title from the commonwealth, Shackleford exhibited a deed from William Miller, through whom the title appears to have passed, and that deed seems never to have been signed and acknowledged by Miller's wife, in the mode prescribed by law for relinquishing the right of dower by femes covert; and for this omission in not procuring a regular relinquishment of Mrs. Miller's right of dower, the objection was taken in argument to Shackleford's title. If this objection had been made before Royster accepted the deed of conveyance from Shackleford, it would certainly have been deserving much greater weight. Whilst the title remained incumbered with the dower right of any of the femes covert through whose husbands the title passed, Royster could not have been compelled to receive a conveyance from Shackleford, in discharge of his covenant to make a good title; but after having accepted a conveyance from Shackleford, the objection of Royster, we apprehend, comes too late. He must now abide by that conveyance, and look to the covenant of warranty therein contained, for indemnity, should Mrs. Miller's claim of dower ever be asserted. The decree of the court below is, therefore, correct in refusing to cancel the contract. We are also of opinion that the court was correct in not compelling Shackleford, in lieu of the damages which he has recovered at law, to accept a title to the two lots, which by the contract, were to have been conveyed by Royster. There may possibly be cases, where, after a recovery at law, it might be competent for a court of equity to relieve against the judgment, and specifically enforce the contract upon which the recovery is had; but, to authorize the court to do so, the circumstances of the case must be of a very peculiar and extraordinary character, and such as are not shown to exist in the present case. We have already seen, that in making the contract Shackleford has been guilty of no fraud, and that he has promptly performed every stipulation of the contract on his part. It cannot, therefore, be in consequence of any improper conduct on the part of Shackleford, that Royster failed to perform the contract on his part. The failure of Royster must rather be ascribed to his own laches, in not obtaining the title to the lots in sufficient time to enable him to comply with his covenant; and, of course, he can have no just claim upon the equity of the court, to change the course of the law, and compel Shackleford to relinquish his legal right to the damages recovered at law, and accept the title which should long since have been made. *5 The decree must be affirmed with costs and damages upon the damages given in the court below. Ky.App. 1824. Royster v. Shackleford 5 Litt. 228, 15 Ky. 228, 1824 WL 1417 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
