(Cite as: 4 Bibb 272,  7 Ky. 272 (Ky.),  1815 WL 771 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Craig v. Elliott. Dec. 7, 1815. *1 Motion for a new trial for excessive damages refused. That a juror was on the jury on former trial of the same case, if the party against whom the verdict was found, was apprised of it, and did not object to the juror, is no cause for setting aside the verdict. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 42(3) 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(D) Disqualification or Misconduct of or Affecting Jury 275k42 Disqualification of Jurors 275k42(3) k. Prior Service as Juror. Most Cited  Cases If a juror, who was on the first trial, is put on the second trial, and the fact is not known to the party until the second verdict is rendered, it is sufficient cause for a new trial. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE appellee, in an action of trespass and false imprisonment, brought by him in the Court below against Craig, on the trial of the general issue, recovered a verdict and judgment for $300 damages, besides costs. A new trial was moved for by Craig, and the only points presented for the determination of this Court grow out of the refusal of that Court to sustain the motion. The grounds upon which the new trial was asked, are--1. Because the verdict was contrary to evidence. 2. Because the verdict is excessive and flagrantly outrageous. 3. Because one of the jurors was on a former jury between the same parties in the same cause. The motion we are of opinion, was properly overruled. The verdict is clearly consistent with the evidence, and though the jury may be said to have given full damages, we are unable to say they are so flagrantly and outrageously excessive as to authorize the verdict to be disturbed for that cause; and with respect to the third ground for a new trial, it need only be remarked that although one of the jurors of the former jury appears to have been upon the latter jury also, for aught that appears upon the record the appellant may have known the fact before the latter jury was sworn, and if so he should have made his objection by challenge, but having failed to do so a new trial for that cause ought not to be awarded. The judgment must be affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Craig v. Elliott 4 Bibb 272, 7 Ky. 272, 1815 WL 771 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
