(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 316,  19 Ky. 316 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1302 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Williams &c. v. Fowler. Oct. 17, 1826. *1 Parties. Ter-tenants. Abatement. Discontinuance. Joint Decrees and Judgments. APPEAL FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 870(4) 228 Judgment 228XIX Suspension, Enforcement, and Revival 228k870 Scire Facias to Revive Judgment 228k870(4) k. Parties Defendant. Most Cited Cases To revive a judgment in ejectment, the scire facias may be against the terre-tenants, by general description. Judgment 228 k 870(8) 228 Judgment 228XIX Suspension, Enforcement, and Revival 228k870 Scire Facias to Revive Judgment 228k870(8) k. Judgment and Relief Awarded. Most Cited  Cases If a joint scire facias against several, for execution of a joint judgment or decree, be discontinued or abated by the plaintiff as to part of the defendants, judgment cannot be taken against the others. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement. This is an appeal from a judgment rendered in favor of Fowler in a scire facias brought by him, to revive and have execution of a decree pronounced in his favor, against Jeremiah Foster, William Foster, Nathaniel Foster, William George, Peter Cassety, Thomas Williams, Joseph Staneleft, Samuel Goodwin, Daniel Goodwin, Philip Williams, Hamilton Elliott, William Dedman, Aaron Hand, Samuel Hand, John Arthur, Samuel Wheeler and Eliza Wheeler. The defendants, Philip Williams, Thomas Williams and Daniel Goodwin, appeared and pleaded nul tiel record; upon which, issue was joined. Plea by part of defendant. Nathaniel Foster, Peter Cassety, Samuel Cassety, Samuel Goodwin, Hamilton Elliott, William Dedman, Samuel Hand, Samuel Wheeler, Eliza Wheeler, Jeremiah Foster and William George, appeared, and by their consent and the assent of Fowler, an order of court was made, abating the scire facias as to them. Abatement as to others. The scire facias was executed upon Stancleft, and the sheriff also made a return thereon, that he had executed it upon Andrew Jones, ter-tenant under Aaaron Hand, William Moore, ter-tenant under Thomas Williams, and David Moore, ter-tenant under John Arthur. Sheriff's return. None of these last named persons appeared to the scire facias, but after the issue taken to the plea of nul tiel record was decided by the court, the record recites that they made default, and judgment was thereupon rendered, that the plaintiff Fowler, have execution against Joseph Stancleft, Andrew Jones, William Moore, David Moore, Daniel Goodwin, Thomas Williams and Philip Williams, and that he also recover against them his cost. Trial of the plea and judgment for plaintiff. The judgment can not, we apprehend, be sustained. Though executed upon Jones, David and William Moore, the scire facias was not against them, and of course conferred no authority upon the sheriff to warn them to appear. To have authorized the sheriff to execute the scire facias upon them, it was not necessary that they should have been expressly named in the scire facias; they resided upon the land, and might have been made defendants to the scire facias, by a general description of ter-tenants of the land. But the scire facias is not against any person by the description of ter-tenants, nor is it against either of Moores or Jones by name. Neither of them, therefore, were made defendants to the scire facias, and although executed upon them, it was erroneous in the court below, to award judgment in favor of Fowler, against them. *2 Scire facias for execution on a decree for land, may issue against the party and the ter-tenants by general description, but where it is against the party only, tenants can not be summoned, and judgment taken against them by default. Were there, therefore, no other error in the judgment or proceedings in the court below, the judgment would have to be reversed. But there is another question raised by the assignment of errors, which i is ptroper to notice. The scire facias is a joint one against all the persons therein named, and it is contended that it should have been discontinued as to all the defendants upon its being, by order of the plaintiff, abated as to part of the defendants. In the case of Coleman against Edwards, 2 Bibb R. 595, it was held not to be regular, to take judgment against one or two joint defendants in a scire facias, which was brought to revive a judgment, after it had been discontinued as to the other defendant. The only difference between that case and the present, is, that in this scire facias was brought to have execution of a joint decree, whereas the scire facias in that case, was brought to have execution of a joint judgment. But the principle must, we apprehend, be the same in both cases; and if it were irregular in that case, to take judgment against one defendant, after the scire facias was discontinued as to the other, it must be equally irregular in this case, after the plaintiff had caused an abatement of the scire facias as to part of the defendants, to proceed further as to the others. If a joint scire facias against several for execution of a joint judgment or decree be discontinued or abated by plaintiff, as to part of the defendants, judgment can not be taken against the others. The judgment must consequently be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and the scire facias dismissed with cost. Triplett for appellant. Ky.App. 1826. Williams v. Fowler 3 T.B.Mon. 316, 19 Ky. 316, 1826 WL 1302 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
