(Cite as: 3 Bibb 214,  6 Ky. 214 (Ky.),  1813 WL 655 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Maupin v. Compton. Nov. 17, 1813. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 698 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k698 k. Parties to Negotiable Paper. Most Cited  Cases Where the assignee of a note sued the maker, and, on a plea of payment to the assignor, verdict was given and judgment rendered for the maker, but the assignor had no notice of the pendency of the suit, it was held, in a subsequent suit by the assignee against the assignor, that the verdict and judgment were no evidence of the fact of payment against the assignor. Assignments 38 k 135 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k133 Evidence 38k135 k. Admissibility in General. Most Cited  Cases Verdict and judgment on the plea of payment to assignor, in a suit by the assignee against the obligor, is not evidence of the fact of payment in a suit by the assignee against the assignor. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 MAUPIN, for value received, transferred by assignment to Compton a writing which he held on Bartlet Ellis. Compton, as assignee, brought suit in the State of Virginia on the writing, and on the trial of the issue joined on the plea of payment, the jury found the debt had been paid to Maupin before the assignment, and judgment was entered in favor of Ellis. Compton then brought this suit in the Madison Circuit Court against Maupin on the assignment, and the cause being tried on the issue of non-assumpsit, a verdict was found for Maupin; but the Court, on the motion of Compton, granted a new trial, and on a second trial verdict and judgment were obtained by Compton; from which judgment this writ of error is prosecuted. Verdict and judgment on plea of payment to assignor, in a suit by assignee against obligor, is not evidence of the fact of payment, against the assignor. Unless he had notice of the pendency of the suit against obligor. New trial being improperly a?? warded, the second verdict and judgment set a?? side, and judgment ordered on the first verdict.--See acc. Brevard v. Graham?? vol. 2, 178.--Worley v. Mu??ley, vol. 1, 265. The right of Compton to recover in this cause against Maupin, is founded on the fact of payment having been made of the demand secured by the assigned instrument before the assignment. And on the trial in the Court below the only evidence produced of this fact, is the transcript of the record and proceedings of the suit prosecuted by Compton in the State of Virginia against Ellis, without even any evidence of Maupin having notice of the pendency of that suit. Whether, therefore, the transcript of that record, under the circumstances of this case, is competent evidence against Maupin, to prove the fact of payment, is the only question necessary to be determined in this cause. Where the assignee fails to make the demand of the obligor, after the exercise of due diligence, in consequence of the failure and inability of the obligor to pay, and suit is brought to make the assignor liable, the record of the proceedings against the obligor is admissible evidence. In such a case it has been held suit must be prosecuted against the obligor before a recovery can be had against the assignor. Whether suit has been prosecuted, and with what diligence, are therefore facts of record; and hence results the necessity of making the record evidence. But in the present case no suit was necessary against the obligor (if the demand was paid before the assignment) to authorize a recovery against Maupin the assignor. The cause of action accrued instantly upon the assignment being made. Nor was the fact of payment matter of record, but extraneous from it. The same necessity, therefore, does not exist in this, that did in the former case to make the record evidence. It is true in a controversy between Compton and Ellis, involving the fact of payment, the record of the former case determined between them would be competent and conclusive evidence; but in a contest with Maupin, who was neither party nor privy to that record, we are of opinion it is inadmissible evidence. Had notice been given to Maupin of the pendency of the suit against Ellis, whereby he might have had an opportunity of controverting the fact of payment, the record would have been admissible evidence against him; but without evidence of such notice the record should not have been used. *2 The jury, therefore, on the first trial correctly found for the defendant in the Court below, and that Court consequently erred in granting a new trial. The judgment, therefore, is erroneous and must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below and judgment there entered in favor of Maupin on the first verdict found by the jury. Ky.App. 1813. Maupin v. Compton 3 Bibb 214, 6 Ky. 214, 1813 WL 655 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
