(Cite as: 4 Bibb 226,  7 Ky. 226 (Ky.),  1815 WL 735 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Trabue v. Kay. Nov. 3, 1815. *1 Covenant to perform brick work, without any place appointed in the covenant, is to be performed where-ever the obligee shall appoint in the state. And a plea of tender to perform the work without showing where the tender was made, or without averring that the obligee was requested to appoint the place, etc., held ill. A plea in covenant, alleging a parol agreement upon which the mutual covenants were founded, and averring that plaintiff had not performed his part of the agreement, is not admissible. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 208 95 Contracts 95II Construction and Operation 95II(D) Place and Time 95k208 k. Place of Performance. Most Cited  Cases A covenant to make bricks and build a house, no place being appointed in the covenant, is to be performed wherever the obligee shall appoint, in the state. Contracts 95 k 338(2) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k338 Plea, Answer, or Affidavit of Defense in  General 95k338(2) k. Rescission or Modification. Most Cited  Cases A plea alleging a parol agreement, upon which the mutual covenants were founded, and averring that the plaintiff had not performed his part of the agreement, is not admissible. Contracts 95 k 344 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k344 k. Performance by Defendant. Most Cited  Cases In an action upon a covenant to perform brickwork, a plea of tender to perform the work, without showing where the tender was made, or without averring that the obligee was requested to appoint the place, is sufficient. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS action was brought by Kay in the Court below to recover damages for a breach of covenant entered into by Trabue. The deed of covenant upon which the action is founded, is not made part of the record; but the declaration charges Trabue of having covenanted, on the 9th of February, 1813, to pay Kay $175, in making and laying bricks at 16s.i 6Id. per thousand, in building a house and chimneys, in a workmanlike manner, the work to commence in the next May after the date of the covenant, and to be completed against the first of September thereafter; and that Kay on his part was to find board and tenders; and alleges for breach the failure of Trabue to perform the work, etc. Trabue appeared to the action, and pleaded four several pleas. By the first he alleges that on the _______ day of May next after the date of the covenant, he tendered to the plaintiff, and offered to commence and perform the making and laying of the bricks in the covenant mentioned, but the plaintiff was not ready to furnish, and did not furnish board and tenders to enable him to do the work, etc. By the second plea he alleges substantially what is contained in the first, with a difference as to the time when the tender was made, and that is alleged to have been made within the time stipulated in the covenant. *2 By the third he alleges a failure in Kay to give him (Trabue) notice where he would have the work performed, etc. And by the fourth plea he alleges that by the contract between plaintiff and defendant upon which the covenant was founded, Kay was to furnish and dig the dirt for making the brick; and avers he never did furnish or dig the dirt, etc. To these several pleas Kay demurred, and the demurrer being joined judgment was entered in his favor, and a writ of inquiry awarded; and damages having been assessed, judgment was rendered thereon against Trabue. The first and second pleas, as they contain substantially the same defense, for the sake of convenience we shall consider together. They cannot be maintained unless according to the legal operation of the deed of covenant Trabue might have performed the work at any place whatever; then as the place of performance could neither be material nor traversable, a plea (such as those in question) by alleging a tender to the person of the obligee, would be substantially good to every essential purpose. But if by the import of the covenant the work could not have been so performed, the pleas should have contained such other averments as would show the tender to have been made conformable to what Trabue was bound to perform. Thus, for example, if by the covenant Trabue should have performed the work either at his own residence, or any other place, the plea, to be good, ought to have alleged the tender to have been made at such place, according as the covenant imports. Whether, therefore, the pleas are or are not sufficient, turns exclusively upon the construction of the covenant as to the place of performance. That the work should not have been performed at the residence of Trabue, there can be no doubt; for as the work when done would necessarily become attached to and form part of the freehold, from the very nature of things it would be impossible for Trabue to build upon his own land, and unconnected therewith, a house and chimneys for Kay; and it would be preposterous to suppose the parties intended the house to be built for Kay, should be placed upon the land of Trabue. Whether, however, the work should have been done at the residence of Kay, or at such place as he might think proper to elect for that purpose, is a question about which we have had considerable difficulty. The English books, as far as we have had an opportunity of examining them, furnish no precedent calculated to throw much light upon the question; and at whichever place the work may be required to be performed, in practice there will no doubt arise cases of particular hardship. We, however, suppose that not only less mischief will result, but that it will accord better with the intention of the parties, and be more consistent with principle, to require in covenants, such as that upon which this action is brought, a performance at such place as the covenantee may think proper to appoint. The failure to name a place in the covenant, from the nature of the thing to be performed, seems necessarily to imply a right in the person for whom the work is to be done to fix the place; for it cannot be supposed the parties intended, nor should the covenant be so construed, that the work should be done at a place where the covenantee could obtain no benefit from it; and as when done it necessarily becomes part of the freehold, to be of use to him, it should be performed either upon his own ground, or such other as he might think proper to select; and in either case the ground should be furnished by him; and in doing so, of necessity he would have to exercise, in some measure, an election in designating the place. *3 But within what limits this right of election should be exercised, is a subject of more doubt. It cannot be confined to any particular tract of land; for if it was, none other could be inferred but that whereon the covenantee might reside; and then, as that might belong to another, the covenant would thereby become inoperative and of no effect. By permitting the covenantee to exercise an absolute discretion in this respect, he might, it is true, require a performance of the covenant, if so disposed, at such a place as might be productive of much hardship. This mischief may, however, be easily avoided, by the parties reducing their contracts to greater certainty and precision; but when that is not done, we are aware of no principle by which the discretion of the covenantee, in fixing on the place, can be circumscribed within narrower bounds than the limits of the State. As, therefore, neither the first nor second pleas have alleged the tender to have been made at the place appointed by Kay for the work to be done, the Court below properly adjudged them insufficient. The third plea we are also of opinion cannot be sustained. It is true, according to the construction we have given to the covenant, Trabue could not be required to perform the work, unless Kay furnished the place; but as he bound himself to commence the work against a named day, to excuse himself for the failure to do so, it was not sufficient barely to allege the failure of Kay to notify him where the work should be done, but he should also by proper averments have shown a readiness on his part to perform the work, and that after informing Kay thereof and requesting him to name a place, he failed to do so. The fourth plea is also clearly insufficient. It cannot be material what the contract was upon which the covenant was founded; for when the agreement was reduced to the solemnity of a covenant, no allegation of what the agreement was upon which the covenant was made, can furnish a legitimate defense at law to an action upon the covenant. Judgment affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Trabue v. Kay 4 Bibb 226, 7 Ky. 226, 1815 WL 735 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
