(Cite as: 3 Bibb 296,  6 Ky. 296 (Ky.),  1814 WL 765 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Christ v. Mark. Apr. 18, 1814. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 714 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIV Continuance 307Ak714 k. Grounds for continuance in general. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 94k11  Continuance) A continuance will not be granted for want of security for costs, unless the omission has prevented preparation for trial. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS is an appeal from a judgment recovered by the appellee on an obligation given by the appellant for 1003l.i 18is.i 3Id. with interest thereon from the date, in good merchantable whisky, in good casks, at 2s.i 3 Id. per gallon. The trial was had on an issue joined to the plea of covenants performed; and a verdict obtained for 1129l.i 2is.i 6Id. without any other evidence being produced to the jury, but the obligation upon which the action was brought. A motion was then made for a new trial on the ground that no evidence of the value of the whisky was produced. The motion was overruled and judgment entered on the verdict. On an obligation to pay in whisky at 2s. 3d. per gallon, no other evidence is necessary as to the value of the whisky. The failure to give security for costs before the calling of a suit, is not per se cause of continuance for the adversary. After jury is sworn it is too late to object to the sufficiency of the bond for costs. The Court acted correctly in overruling the motion for a new trial. It was not incumbent on the plaintiff in that Court to produce any other evidence than the obligation, to authorize the finding of the jury; but if it were, the obligation is not made a part of the record by bill of exceptions or otherwise, and this Court could not therefore say the finding of the jury was not justified by it. Exceptions were also taken to the opinion of the Court below in refusing to grant a continuance of the cause. The gound of that application was the failure of the plaintiff in that Court, who was a non-resident, to give bond with security for the payment of costs, before the calling of the cause for trial. It is not even suggested in the bill of exceptions taken to the refusal of the Court to continue the cause, that the appellant was not prepared for trial; and according to the decision in the case of  Cox v. Fenwick, (6 Ky. 183) the mere circumstance of the bond not having been executed until the calling of the cause, does not furnish sufficient cause for a continuance. In answer to the assignment of errors which questions the sufficiency of the bond given for costs, it need only to be remarked, no objections were made to its sufficiency until after the jury was sworn; and besides, it substantially conforms to the requisitions of the law. The judgment must therefore be affirmed with damages and costs. Ky.App. 1814. Christ v. Mark 3 Bibb 296, 6 Ky. 296, 1814 WL 765 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
