(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 314,  8 Ky. 314 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1379 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Christopher Keizer's Heirs v. George Adams. Oct. 10, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Descent and Distribution 124 k 149 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(C) Debts of Intestate and Incumbrances on Property 124k137 Action Against Heirs, Distributees, or Purchasers 124k149 k. Judgment or Decree. Most Cited  Cases In an action against heirs on a bond of their ancestor, the judgment should be as of their own debt. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This suit was brought by the appellee in the court below to recover from the appellants the amount of two obligations, executed by their ancestor to a certain Nicholas Hoover, and by him assigned to the appellee. Several points are made by the assignment of errors; but the first which we deem material to notice, involves an inquiry into the decision of the court below, in rejecting the written documents introduced by the appellants as evidence in that court. The competency of those documents, as evidence, should be considered, not only in relation to the issue joined by the parties, but under their agreement entered of record in the court below, they must be considered in relation to any issue which might have been regularly joined upon any admissible plea. Thus considering them, we are, however, unable to perceive any possible bearing which they could have upon the right of the appellee. The bonds upon which suit was brought having been given in 1784 and 1786, it was not only proper for the appellants, under the plea of payment, to rely on the length of time as furnishing presumptive evidence of payment by their ancestor, but it was competent for them, by proving other circumstances, to fortify and strengthen that presumption. The rejected documents, however, as they have no relation to any transaction between the appellants' ancestor and the obligee, Hoover, afford no circumstance calculated, in the slightest degree, to fortify or strengthen the presumption of payment. And although one of those documents is an obligation given by the obligee to one of the appellants, that obligation, from the nature of an appellee's demand, would not be availing under a plea of set-off, and as those documents form no pretence for a defence under any other plea, the court below properly rejected them. But it is contended that the judgment rendered against the heirs is not warranted by the finding of the jury. In an action against heirs, on a bond of their ancestor, the judgment should be as of their own debt. There is no doubt but that the judgment, according to the law as it stood before the passage of the act of January, 1810, (session act, 1810, 131), was properly entered against the heirs as for a debt of their own contracting; and the provisions of that act, we are of opinion, should not be construed so as to affect the mode of entering the judgment. *2 The judgment must be affirmed with cost and damages. Haggin and Bibb, for appellants; M'Kinley and Wickliffe, for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Keizer's Heirs v. Adams 1 A.K.Marsh. 314, 8 Ky. 314, 1818 WL 1379 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
