(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 88,  19 Ky. 88 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1203 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. South's Heirs v. Hoy's Heirs. Nov. 21, 1825. *1 Wills. Widow. Hotch Pot. Slaves. Covenants for Land. Interest. Retainer. Legacies. Heirs. Decrees. Executors. Statutes. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 51 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k48 Debts and Rights of Action 162k51 k. Right of Action for Death of Decedent. Most  Cited Cases Covenants for land, broken in the covenantee's lifetime, go to the executor; when broken after his death, to the heir. Executors and Administrators 162 k 465 162 Executors and Administrators 162XI Accounting and Settlement 162XI(A) Duty to Account 162k465 k. Property to Be Included. Most Cited  Cases An executor, who is also husband of one of the distributees, is not bound to account for the amount of that interest;  and, in pronouncing a decree against his heirs, that amount should be deducted. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 123 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k123 k. Actions for Rescission. Most Cited  Cases If a covenant for the conveyance of a title be not broken in the lifetime of the grantee, his heirs, being entitled to all advantages resulting from the covenant, are necessary parties to a suit for the rescission of such covenant. Descent and Distribution 124 k 52(2) 124 Descent and Distribution 124II Persons Entitled and Their Respective Shares 124II(B) Surviving Husband or Wife 124k52 Nature of Right in General 124k52(2) k. Rights of Surviving Wife in General. Most  Cited Cases A widow is entitled to one-third of the personal property of which her husband died intestate and to the property bequeathed her by the will. Descent and Distribution 124 k 109 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(B) Advancements 124k108 Bringing Property Into Hotchpot for Distribution 124k109 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Advancements in slaves need not be brought into hotchpot to entitle the holder to a distributive share of the goods and chattels, since slaves are not personalty. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Some time early in the spring of 1790, William Hoy, having previously made his last will and testament, departed this life. The will was afterwards proved and admitted to record in the county court of Madison county, and John South, Rowland Hoy and Richard Tunstall, the executors named therein, took upon themselves the execution of the will, by appearing in court and executing bond with security, as required by law, &c. *2 Will. Hoy's will and executors. An inventory and appraisement of the estate was returned to the county court by the executors, together with a bill of the property sold by them. Commissioners were appointed to adjust and settle the accounts of the executors, and after having performed the duty assigned them, their report was returned to court and ordered to be recorded. Inventory, account of sales, and settlement with executors, returned to court. According to this settlement, the executors were nothing in arrears to the estate, but as it was ex parte Jones Hoy, William Hoy, Lawrence Flournoy and Theodocia, his wife, John Dejarnett and Parhania, his wife, John Newland and Celia, his wife, Hugh Brown and Kezia, his wife, and Nancy Hoy, devisees and heirs of William Hoy, deceased, exhibited their bill in equity, for the purpose of obtaining a further settlement of the accounts of the estate, and to recover their respective proportions of what might, on a correct adjustment of the accounts, be ascertained to be due them. The bill, and amended bills, contain a specification of the various items in which the settlement, by the commissioners appointed by the county court, is alleged to be inaccurate, and make John South, and Richard Tunstall, executors named in the will of William Hoy, deceased, (Rowland Hoy, the other executor, having previously died intestate,) and their sureties, together with the testator's widow, Sarah and her husband Edward Brown, defendants. Bill of the distributees and devisees against South and Hoy. the surviving executors and their sureties. It appears that the wife of John South and Rowland Hoy were both children of the testator William Hoy, and that they, together with the complainants, compose all of the testator's children and heirs. By the order of the complainants, the suit was afterwards dismissed as to the sureties of the executors in their executor's bond. Suit dismissed as to sureties. The executors, John South and Richard Tunstall answered the bill, but there was no answer put in by Brown and wife, though process was regularly served upon them, and as to them the bill was taken for confessed. Bill taken proconfesso, against Brown and wife. After having answered the bill, John South departed this life, and an order was made reviving the suit in the name of his children and heirs, the most of whom were infants. A guardian ad litem was appointed to defend for the infants, who, accordingly, appeared and filed an answer, and the process which issued upon the order of revival against the adult heirs of South, was regularly served upon all of them but one, and as to that one, the suit was abated by his death. South answers and dies, and the suit revived against his heirs. It moreover appears that, after this, the parties appeared, and the cause was heard by the court, and an interlocutory decree, settling the principles involved in the contest, was pronounced, and commissioners appointed to make out and report a statement of the accounts in pursuance thereto. *3 Interlocutory decree, and commissioners appointed on the accounts. The commissioners accordingly adjusted the accounts, and made a report thereof to court. By this report, the executors of William Hoy, deceased, were made debtors to the estate, one thousand and fourteen pounds, four shillings, and a penny half-penny, after crediting them with three hundred and ninety-one pounds,??eighteen shillings and fourpence three farthings for the one-third of the personal estate, to which the commissioners conceived the widow of Hoy was entitled, but for which there could be no decree against the executors, she not being a complainant, or in any other way asserting her claim against them. Commissioners' report. On a final hearing of the cause, the court approved of the report of the commissioners, with the exception of the sum of two hundred and twenty-four pounds, eighteen shillings, and tenpence, charged by the commissioners for the price of a slave called Dick, and two bonds with interest, and which was thought by the court ought to be deducted from the amount reported against the executors. After deducting that charge, there remained a balance of seven hundred and eighty-nine pounds, five shillings and threepence half penny, which the heirs of John South (he having without the aid of the other executors, had the management of the estate,) were decreed to pay to the complainants, in the following proportions, to-wit: to Jones Hoy, the sum of seventy-six pounds, seven shillings and sixpence three farthings; to Lawrence Flournoy and Theodocia, his wife, one hundred and twelve pounds fifteen shillings, and three farthings; to William Hoy, one hundred and twelve pounds, fifteen shillings and three farthings; to John Dejarnett and Parthania his wife one hundred and twelve pounds, fifteen shillings and three farthings; to John Newland and Celia, his wife, one hundred and twelve pounds, fifteen shillings and three farthings; to Hugh Brown and Kezia, his wife, one hundred and twelve pounds, fifteen shillings and three farthings; and to Fanny Hoy, one hundred and twelve pounds, fifteen shillings and three farthings. Decree of the circuit court against the heirs of South. Before we proceed further, it may be proper to premise, that both the commissioners and court appear to have treated the rights of the complainants in the light of heirs and distributees of William Hoy,??deceased; and have not made their claim to relief rest upon the will of their ancestor. It was in that point of view alone, that the commissioners could have deducted from the aggregate amount of charges against the executors, the one third of the personal estate for the widow of Hoy, (there being nothing in the record going to show that she has renounced the provisions made for her by the will,) and it must have been upon the same principle that the report of the commissioners in that respect was approved by the court. If it do not appear in the cause, (the legatees and distributees against the executors,) the widow had renounced the provisions for her in the will, her reasonable part shall not be deducted from the legacies. *4 We have looked into the will of Hoy, and although it must be admitted to be somewhat ambiguous, we are inclined to the opinion that, as respects the personal estate of Hoy, it contains no disposition except to his widow. The only provisions of the will which have a bearing upon the personal estate, or about which any doubt can arise, are the following, viz: "I give and bequeath unto my well beloved wife, Sarah, the land and plantation I now live on, during her life--I also lend unto her my other lands and plantation over the branch adjoining to James Hendricks, David Crews and Absalom Crooks, during her widowhood; I also give her two negroes, to wit: York and Dalbert, the issue of Dol; my will and desire is, that it be equally divided at any time, by my executors among my children, to be hereafter mentioned; I also lend unto her all my stock of horses, cattle, sheep and hogs, during her widowhood, except two cows and one horse, which I give unto her during her life; I also lend unto her, all my household and kitchen furniture, during her widowhood. I give and bequeath unto eight of my children, viz: Rowland, Jones, Docia, Kezia, William, Fanny, Celia, Thania, all my lands and negroes, with the increase of Dol and Sarah, to be equally divided among them as they come of age, or marry. My will and desire is, that when those last children's proportions are equivalent with what I have given to Betsy South, that she come in for an equal share of the remaining part of my estate." Extract of Hoy's will. The only ambiguity which arises, grows out of this latter clause in relation to Betsy South. We think, however, that the expression, remaining part of my estate, therein employed, was designed by the testator to refer to the remaining part of his lands and negroes, which, in the previous clause, were devised to eight of his children, if there should be any part remaining after making their proportions equal to what had been given to Betsy South. The testator had advanced his daughter Betsy, and evidently intended, in providing for his other children, not to make their interest exceed what had been given, and what he intended to give to Betsy, and employed those expressions in relation to her, to limit the bequest which he made to them. It was not intended by those expressions, we apprehend, to enlarge the import of the devise to these other children or to give Betsy an interest in any part of his estate which was not given to them. His lands and negroes, the testator designed to give to his other children, unless the value thereof exceeded the amount of what had been given to Betsy, but if they should exceed that amount, then he intended that for the remaining part, above what had been received by Betsy,??she should come in for an equal share with the other children. Construction given the will that Hoy died intestate as to his estate not expressly devised. Thus understanding the import of Hoy's will, we can have no hesitation in saying, that the only right which the complainants have to an interest in the personal property, must be in their character of heirs and distributees. Except the interest bequeathed to the wife of the testator, no part of the testator's personal estate is disposed of by his will, and, of course, the undisposed of surplus must have passed to the heirs and distributees, under the same rules and regulations as if there had been no will. We do not intend by the expressions, personal estate to be understood to include slaves. The slaves of the testator are expressly mentioned in the will, and in their character of devisees, and not as heirs and distributees, the right of the complainants to recover any thing for them, can alone be sustained. *5 If in the preceding remarks we are correct, it necessarily follows that the commissioners and court were correct in excluding from the complainant's demand one third of the amount of the personal property of Hoy, undisposed of by the will. For although the widow Hoy may have received the personal property bequeathed her by the will, she has an undoubted right to one third of the surplus not disposed of by the will after the testator's debts are paid. As to that surplus, the testator must be considered as having died intestate, and whenever that is the case, one third of the personal property is expressly directed by the statute of this country, to go to the wife. Widow is entitled to her distributive share in the chattels of which her husband dies intestate, and also to her legacies under the will. But it does not follow, as the court below appears to have thought that the claim of the complainants ought not to be diminished in consequence of Betsy South, the wife of John South, being one of the children of Hoy. If, in the lifetime of her father, Hoy, she had received of him any of his personal property in advancement, it would no doubt be incumbent upon her, or any other person claiming through her, to bring into hotchpot the property so received, before they would be entitled to any part of the personal estate, undisposed of by the testator's will. But it does not appear from the record in the present case, that any personal property was received by her or her husband from the testator in his lifetime. The only property advanced to them was slaves, and the doctrine is settled that advancements in property of that sort, need not be brought into hotchpot, to entitle the person who may have received the advancement to a distributive share of the goods and chattels. See 2, Littell R. 348. Advancements in slaves shall not be brought into hotchpot with the other chattels___There is for each a separate hotchpot. As one of the children of Hoy, Betsy South was, therefore, entitled to an equal interest with his other children in the personal estate, not disposed of by his will, and, of course, as executor, her husband, John South, was not bound to account to any person for the amount of that interest. So that in pronouncing a decree against the heirs of John South, the court below should have deducted from the complainant's demand, whatever that interest might be ascertained to be. Executor is entitled absolutely to his wife's distributive share in her father's chattels, and his heirs in accounting to the other distributees, shall deduct and retain her share though she yet live. That court was also incorrect in not making a deduction in favor of the heirs of South, for a part of the interest in the slaves and personal property of the testator Hoy, which Rowland Hoy became entitled to, as one of the children of the testator. After the death of the testator, Rowland Hoy departed this life intestate, and by operation of law, the interest which he, as one of the children of the testator, became entitled to in the slaves and personal property of the testator, was cast upon his mother, brothers and sisters, equally, of whom Betsy South, the wife of John South, was one. *6 Share of a child in chattels and slaves, under his father's will and the statute of distributions, dying unmarried and intestate, passes to his mother, brothers and sisters. See Pinkard, &c., v. Smith, &c. Selected Cases, 331, &c. As the husband of Betsy South, John South became therefore, entitled to retain in his hands her interest in the slaves and personal property of Rowland Hoy, and of course, in decreeing against South's heirs the amount of that interest, (it being the one ninth of the slaves and personal property to which Rowland was entitled as one of the children of his father,) should have been deducted from the amount of the demand claimed by the complainants. Or, the sisters being married to their husbands, as the original shares. The heirs of South should also have had a deduction for another ninth of the slaves and personal property of Rowland Hoy, it being the interest in that property to which his mother, as one of his heirs, is entitled, and to which she has not, as complainant or otherwise, asserted any claims against the heirs of South. After making the foregoing deductions, the residue, L789 5s. 6d. should be decreed to the complainants, when graduated according to the proportions ascertained in the decree. We have said the residue should be decreed to the complainants, but that we have said upon the hypothesis that, in other respects, no error was committed prejudicial to the heirs of South. But in adverting to the report of the commissioners, we perceive that the executors of Hoy have been charged with all the personal estate which belonged to Hoy at his death. In that, however, the report is evidently incorrect. The will of Hoy gave to his wife a life estate in two cows and one horse, for which, as she is still living, the complainants unquestionably have no legal claim. How goods devised to widow for life shall be accounted for. The report of the commissioners is also incorrect, in charging the executors with interest upon the personal estate given to Mrs. Hoy, during her widowhood, from the end of one year after the sale purports to have been made, instead of making the interest run in favor of the complainants from the time of her marriage. With the exceptions already noticed, we have discovered no inaccuracy in the report of the commissioners, as sanctioned by the court in its decree. Interest may be charged executor on the personal estate devised to the widow during her widowhood, from the date of the marriage. We do not admit, as was contended on the part of the complainants, that any liability is shown against the executors on account of the bonds for land which they are charged with having held in their possession, without exercising proper diligence by suit. Those bonds are not only reported by the commissioners to have been presented by one of the complainants acting as the agent of others, but it is moreover said, that no breach of them appears to have occurred in the lifetime of Hoy. Under these circumstances, it would be displaying an unwarrantable degree of rigor, to subject the executors to liability for those bonds: It would be imposing upon the executors a liability for not doing that which, in their fiduciary capacity, could not legally be done. If there were no breach of the condition of those bonds until after the death of Hoy, his executors had no right of suit. For a subsequent breach, the heirs of Hoy only could maintain an action. *7 Covenants for land, broken in covenantee's lifetime, go to the executor, where broken after his death, to the heir___In this case though the executor have the custody of the covenants, he is not accountable to distributees for failing to prosecute suits. There is one other objection to the decree taken by the complainants, which it is proper we should notice. The decree is for the heirs of the executor, South, to pay the complainants, and it is contended, that Tunstall also should have been made liable. As respects so much of the complainant's demand as relates to the personal estate not disposed of by the will of Hoy, there is no reasonable pretext for a decree against Tunstall. He, it is true, is one of the executors named in the will of Hoy, but the business of the estate was managed exclusively by South, without the co-operation or control of Tunstall. It must, therefore, have been the acts of South, and his acts only, that created the liability, and according to well settled principles at common law, the complainants must look to South or his representatives for indemnity, and not to the executor Tunstall. But with respect to the property to which the complainants are entitled by the will of Hoy, we apprehend the case is different. At common law, the principle was the same, whether the property received by an executor was disposed of by the will, or consisted of surplus not disposed of by the testator. In neither case was an executor liable for the acts of a co-executor in relation to property over which he exercised no control. But executors are now required to execute bond with security, for a faithful disharge of their executorial functions, and according to the import of that bond, if executed jointly by two executors, each is liable in a suit founded upon it for the acts of the other coming within its condition. The bond does not, however, impose any obligation upon the executors to pay the distributive surplus of property not disposed of by the will of the testator, and as to that, the liability of executors must continue as at common law. But the bond imposes an obligation for the payment of the legacies mentioned in the will; and as to such legacies, each executor named in the will, and bound in the bond are jointly liable in an action on the bond. For so much of the complainant's demand, therefore, as they may show themselves entitled to through the will of Hoy, the decree should be against the heirs of South and Tunstall jointly; but for the residue of their demand, arising from the personal property not disposed of by the will, the decre should be against the heirs of South only, and not against Tunstall.FNa1 FNa1. Moore, &c., v. Waller's heirs. 1 Marshall, 488. Executors are not accountable to distributees for the acts or receipts of each other, as to the undevised surplus, either at common law or on their statutory bond. But,___ For legacies, executors are all accountable for each, on their joint bond, under the statute. *8 With respect to the question made by the heirs of South, as to the proper parties, we would barely remark, that no irregularity in that respect is perceived. All necessary parties were made and regularly brought before the court. The decree must, however be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and after the errors to which we have referred are corrected, a decree must be there entered in conformity to this opinion. But in entering the decree, the amount which shall be ascertained to be coming from the heirs of South, should be directed to be made out of the estate of their ancestor to them descended and not otherwise. Decrees against heirs, for demands against their ancestor, directed to be entered, to be made of the asets descended, and not otherwise. Caperton, for plaintiff; Talbot and Haggin, for defendants. Ky.App. 1825. South's Heirs v. Hoy's Heirs 3 T.B.Mon. 88, 19 Ky. 88, 1825 WL 1203 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
