(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 25,  21 Ky. 25 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1495 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bank of Limestone v. Penick. May 31, 1827. *1 Witness. Competence. Principal and Surety. Deeds. Promissory Notes. Blanks. ERROR TO THE MASON CIRCUIT; ADAM BEATTY ,JUDGE. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 57 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(C) Execution and Delivery 56k57 k. Signature Added After Delivery. Most Cited  Cases Principal and Surety 309 k 34 309 Principal and Surety 309I Creation and Existence of Relation 309I(A) Between Individuals 309k30 Consideration 309k34 k. Executed Consideration to Principal. Most  Cited Cases After a note has been discounted at a bank, it may be executed by sureties, who will be bound without any new discount or consideration. Witnesses 410 k 113 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k113 k. Release or Substitution of or Indemnity  Against Liability. Most Cited Cases The principal in a note, released by the surety, is a competent witness for him. Alteration of Instruments 25 k 12 25 Alteration of Instruments 25k12 k. Authority or Consent of Parties. Most Cited Cases One who signs and delivers a note blank as to the amount thereby authorizes the person to whom it is delivered to fill the blank with any amount. Alteration of Instruments 25 k 20 25 Alteration of Instruments 25k15 Effect Upon Rights of Parties 25k20 k. Negotiable Instruments. Most Cited Cases A material alteration in any commercial paper, without the consent of the party to be charged, extinguishes his liability. Bills and Notes 56 k 60 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(C) Execution and Delivery 56k60 k. Execution in Blank. Most Cited  Cases When a note is signed and sent out in blank, the person signing is bound for the amount inserted in the note to one having no notice of the facts, although it was understood that the sum should be less than that inserted. Bills and Notes 56 k 378 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(D) Holders in Due Course 56k364 Defenses Against Holders in Due Course 56k378 k. Alteration. Most Cited  Cases The alteration of the date of a note by the payee after delivery, without the maker's consent, vitiates the instrument, even in the hands of an innocent indorsee for value. Bills and Notes 56 k 378 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(D) Holders in Due Course 56k364 Defenses Against Holders in Due Course 56k378 k. Alteration. Most Cited  Cases An alteration in amount of a note by the payee, in any material respect, avoids it, as to the maker, even in the hands of an innocent indorsee for valuable consideration. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. *2 This was an action of debt, brought by the Bank of Limestone against Penick, upon the following writing: Promissory note declared upon. "Dollars $5,500. Sixty days after date, we, Richard L. Watters, William Penick and Israel Jennings, or either of us, promise to pay to the order of the president, directors and company of the bank of Limestone, fifty-five hundred dollars, for value received; negotiable and payable at said bank, without defalcation. Witness our hands, April 11th, 1820. RICHARD L. WATTERS, WM. PENICK, ISRAEL JENNINGS." Penick pleaded four pleas: Payment with notice of set-off: 2nd, That the writing sued on was obtained by fraud, covin and collusion of the bank: 3rd, Non est factum: 4th, That the writing declared on, was obtained from Penick, by fraud, covin and misrepresentation; that is to say, by the plaintiffs and others in collusion with them, falsely and fraudulently representing to him, the said Penick, that the said writing obligatory was executed and delivered to them, the said plaintiffs, by Richard L. Watters, for the purpose of obtaining the signatures of the said Penick and Israel Jennings, one of the obligors in said writing, as the sureties of the said Richard L. Watters in the said joint and several obligation sued on; by which false and fraudulent representation, the said Penick was induced to affix his signature to the said writing, when, as he, the said Penick, avers, the said writing was not executed and delivered to the said plaintiffs, by the said Richard L. Watters, for the purpose of obtaining the signature of him, the said Penick, and Israel Jennings as sureties for said Watters in the said joint and several obligation in the declaration mentioned; wherefore, he, the said Penick, says, that the said writing obligatory, is void in law, &c. &c." Pleas of defendant?? Issues were made up to each of these pleas, and verdict and judgment recovered by Penick. Verdict and judgment for Penick. On the trial, the court instructed the jury:-- 1st. That if they were of opinion, from the evidence in the cause, that the plaintiffs filled up the blank of Richard L. Watters without his consent, binding him in a manner different from what was contemplated and authorized by him when he delivered the blank with his name thereto affixed, that the obligation thus taken by the plaintiffs, payable to a different party, is not the deed of said Watters, but void as to him; unless they should be of opinion he reacknowledged and confirmed the same after it had been filled up; and any act which clearly indicates the assent of the mind to stand to and perform a contract previously entered into, amounts to a confirmation. Instructions of the court for Penick. 2nd. If the jury should be of opinion, that the plaintiffs, or their agent, did not inform the defendant Penick, who signed the writing as surety for Watters, that the said writing was filled up as above supposed, (provided the jury shall be satisfied from the evidence, it was so filled up), it was a fraud upon Penick, and renders the obligation void as to him; unless the jury should be satisfied from the evidence, that Penick was fully apprised of its having been so filled without the authority of Watters; and the burthen of proof of his having been so apprised lies upon the plaintiffs. *3 2d instruction. 3rd. If the jury shall be of opinion, that the plaintiffs, after the execution and delivery of the note sued upon by Penick, inserted the name of Jennings as a new party thereto, without the assent of Watters and Penick, it rendered the obligation void as to them; unless they, or one of them, afterwards confirmed the same, and in case it was confirmed by one only, it would be obligatory on him only. 3d instruction. 4th. If the jury should be of opinion, that at the time, to-wit, the 11th of April, this writing was ordered to be discounted, it was not executed by Penick, his subsequent signature and delivery as surety for Watters, would not be obligatory on him, unless the note was again discounted, or executed upon some consideration operating beneficially to himself, or to his principal, or injuriously to the plaintiffs. 4th instruction. In the progress of the trial, Penick introduced Richard L. Watters, one of the persons by whom the writing sued on purports to have been given, as a witness; the competency of whose testimony was objected to by the bank; but upon Penick releasing Watters from all liability to him, the objection to his competency as a witness, was overruled, and his testimony given to the jury. Principal offered as a witness for surety, released and examined. The assignment of errors question the correctness of the several instructions which the court gave to the jury, as also the propriety of the decision, admitting the evidence of Watters. Assignment of errors. With respect to Watters' evidence, we think the court decided correctly in admitting it to go to the jury. The objection to his competency would have assumed quite a different aspect, if the action had been a joint one against all of the persons by whom the writing declared on purports to have been executed; for as Watters would then have been a party to the action, it might with great force be contended, that no release by Penick, a co-obliger, could, in a suit to which both are defendants, remove the objections to Watters' competency as a witness for him. But this suit was brought, not jointly against all of the persons named as obligors in the writing, but against Penick only; so that there lies no objection to the competency of Watters on the score of his being a party to the action. The only objection which can fairly be urged to the competency of Watters in this case, grows out of the interest which, as a co-obligor, he may be supposed to have in the event of the suit; and that interest it is admitted, would be sufficient to exclude his testimony if it had not been removed before his evidence was received. But we understand the release, which was executed by Penick, to have absolved Watters from any possible liability to him, and we are incapable of discerning any interest which Watters can have had in the event of this contest, except that which grew out of his liability to Penick. Principal in a promissory note released by the surety, is a competent witness for surety in an action against him. *4 Before we proceed to examine the correctness of the instructions which were given to the jury, it is proper that we should state briefly some of the prominent facts, which the evidence introduced at the trial conduced to prove. It appears, that some time before the date of the writing sued on, Richard L. Watters being indebted to the bank fifty-five hundred dollars, by note with Penick and Jennings his endorsers, and that about the winter of 1820, several blanks, signed in the name of Watters, and endorsed in the name of Penick and Jennings, respectively, were left by Watters in the bank, to be used, when filled up, for the purpose of renewing his note, which was assigned by Penick and Jennings, when it became payable. That, in April, 1820, the bank changed the form of its notes, from the endorsed form, to that of a joint and several obligation; and that in consequence of that change, one of the blanks left by Watters was filled up above his name with a joint and several obligation. That in consequence of the signature of Watters being so near to the bottom of the paper that there was not room for his joint obligors to sign it, an additional piece of paper was pasted to it, and that upon this piece, William Penick and Israel Jennings signed their names; and that this note, (it being the one upon which this suit is founded), in the joint and several form, after the signatures of all the persons therein named as obligors were procured, was substituted by the board of directors, in the place of Watters' endorsed note. These were the principal facts which the evidence went to establish, and which were referred to the consideration of the jury by the court in its first instructions. Statement of the evidence. We will, therefore, proceed to enquire, whether or not, upon this evidence, the court was correct in instructing the jury, that if they were of opinion, from the evidence, that the plaintiffs filled up the blank of Richard L. Watters, without his consent, binding him in a manner different from what was contemplated and authorized by him when he delivered the blank with his name thereto affixed; that the obligation thus taken by the plaintiffs; payable to a different party, is not the deed of Watters, but void as to him. Person signing his name on a blank paper, and delivering it to J. S., authorizes J. S. to fill up the blank with any sum, and the signature will bind him for it. We understand the instructions of the court to admit that by putting his name to the blank paper, Watters gave an authority to the bank to fill up a note which would be binding upon him, but to go upon the idea, that, from the evidence, the jury might infer an intention by Watters, that the note should be filled up in the endorsed form, and not in the form of a joint and several obligation, and that if such were his understanding, the note in question (it being filled up directly to the bank), is not binding upon him. That the court was correct in conceding to the bank authority to fill up the blank is a proposition that, upon common law principles, admits of no controversy. It has been repeatedly held, that the signing a name on a blank piece of paper operates as a letter of credit, giving to the person to whom it is delivered authority to insert any amount whatever, Thus in Chitty on bills, 28, it is said to have been decided, "that a person signing his name on a blank stamped piece of paper, and delivering it to J. S. authorizes J. S. to insert any sum which the amount of the stamp will warrant." Again, in page 103, the same author says, "that it has been adjudged, that if a man endorses his name on a blank stamp?? or piece of paper, such an endorsement will operate as a letter of credit, for an indefinite sum, consistent with the stamp, and will bind the endorser, for any sum, to be paid at any time, which the person to whom he entrusts, the instrument chooses to insert in it. So where A. made a note with a blank for the sum, and sent it to B. the payee, and requested him to fill it up, on action brought, it was held that B. had a right so to do, and he recovered, 2 Wash. Rep. 164. *5 With respect to deeds the rule we know is said to be different. Perkins on conveyances, in the 118 section says, if a common person seal an obligation or any other deed without any writing in it, and deliver the same to a stranger, man or woman, it is nothing worth, notwithstanding the stranger make it to be written, that he who sealed and delivered the same unto him, is bounden unto him in the sum of twenty pounds." But delivery of a blank with the party's signature and seal does not authorize it to be filled as in case of notes and bills. But the writing upon which the present action is founded is not a deed, and the authority of the bank to fill up the blank must, we apprehend, be governed by the common law principle applicable to unsealed writings. It is true, the note in question bears date since the act of this country, placing unsealed writings upon the footing of sealed writings; but that act has been held, and we apprehend held correctly, not to diminish the legal force of unsealed writings, but to give them additional efficacy when executed, according to the rules and principles of the common law. Act of 1812, placing unsealed writings on a footing with sealed, does not alter the mode of executing them, and so blanks may be filled in such writings, after delivery. We shall not deny but that, from the evidence, it may fairly be inferred to have been the understanding of Watters, that the blank paper to which his name was subscribed and left with the bank, was to be filled up in the endorsed form, and not in the form of a joint and several obligation payable directly to the bank; but we are not prepared to admit that the court was correct in instructing the jury that if they should be of opinion such was the understanding of Watters when he put his name to the paper, the note as filled up, was void and not binding upon him. Though at the time he put his name to the blank paper, it may have been understood by Watters, that it was to be filled up in the endorsed form, his main and principal object in putting his name to the paper and leaving it with the bank has been fulfilled. He was owing to the bank five thousand five hundred dollars, by note, previously executed by him, and endorsed by Penick and Jennings; and his principal object in putting his name to the blank paper, and leaving it with the bank, was to obtain a further indulgence as to the time of payment, by having the blank when filled up, substituted by the bank, for the note it then held upon him. That object was accomplished by the note in question. It is true, the note may not have been filled up in the precise form that was understood by Watters when he put his name to the blank paper; but we are incapable of perceiving any possible injury to which Watters is exposed by the form in which the blank was filled, and to which he would not have been equally liable, if it had been filled up in the endorsed form. In either form his liability is directly to the bank, and in neither form is the liability greater than in the other. In the endorsed form the note would not purport a direct promise to pay the bank, but it would import a promise to pay one of the persons whose name was also endorsed, and upon its being substituted by the bank for the note then owing by Watters, would be as much the property of the bank as if filled up, as the note in question, in the form of a joint and several obligation, and upon which the bank might, in its corporate name, maintain an action against him. It is evident, therefore, that although, in filling up the blank, the bank may not, in point of form, have conformed to the understanding of Watters at the time he put his name to the paper; in substance the authority of the bank to fill the blank has not been abused or exceeded. The first instructions of the court, can not, therefore, be sustained. *6 Debtor of a bank, on a note payable to an accommodation endorser, having deposited a blank for a renewal without more saying, the officers of the bank filled it up as a joint and several obligation on him and the endorsers, and they added their signatures, held that all were bound. And if we are correct as to the first instruction, it follows necessarily that the court below must have erred in its second instruction to the jury. For if, in filling up the blank, the authority of the bank was not transcended, though it may not have been formally executed according to the understanding of Watters, it is impossible that by failing to inform Penick of the formal deviation in filling up the note from what may have been the understanding of Watters, the bank can have been guilty of such a fraud upon Penick, as to render the note void as to him. The third instruction was predicated upon the opinion which the jury might form on the following evidence. It was proved that after the blank was filled up with the names of Watters and Penick, and after Penick had subscribed his name thereto, the name of Jennings as a new party, was placed in the note; and by the third instruction, the jury were told, that if the name of Jennings was so inserted in the note, by the plaintiffs or their agent without the assent of Watters and Penick, the note was void as to them; unless they, or one of them, afterwards confirmed the same, and in case it was confirmed by one only, it would be obligatory on him only. Any alteration, however immaterial, made in a deed or promissory note, made by the obligee, without obligor's consent, renders it void. The doctrine of the law upon the subject of the alteration of deeds is well settled; and is perhaps as intelligibly laid down in Shepherd's Touchstone as in any other work. It is there said; "If a deed that is well and sufficiently made in its creation, shall be afterwards altered by rasure, interlining, addition, drawing a line through the words (though they be still legible) or by writing new letters upon the old, in any material place or part of it, as if it be in a deed or grant, in the name of the grantor, grantee or thing granted, or in the limitation of the estate, or if it be in an obligation, when the word (heirs) shall be inserted, or the sum increased, or in the date of either, or the like; be the same either by the party himself that hath the property of the deed, or any other whomsoever, except it be by him that is bound by the deed, and be the same with or without the consent of him to whom it is made or doth belong, in this case and by either of these means, the deed hath lost its force and is become void," Shep. T. 68. The doctrine thus briefly stated by Shepherd is recognized and supported by numerous adjudged cases, many of which are referred to by Comyns in his digest, title Fait, letter F. 1. It is true that all of those cases apply to, and go to show the doctrine of the law as to deeds, and we have before remarked that although, under the act of this country placing unsealed writings upon the footing of sealed, the writing upon which this suit is founded, must, to some purposes, be treated as a deed, it is not in fact anl law a deed. But whether or not it be treated as a deed, is totally immaterial as to the effect which any alteration of it since it was executed can produce. For before the passage of the act elevating unsealed writings to the dignity of sealed writings, a promissory note would be rendered void by any material alteration after it was made, Chitty on bills, 85; Evans' Essay on bills, 105. *7 After a n?? has been discounted at bank, it may be executed by sureties, and they will be bound without any new consideration. Whether, therefore, the note in question be considered as a deed, or only as a promissory note not possessing the dignity of sealed instruments, it is equally clear from authority, that if, since it became the note of Watters and Penick, it has, without their approbation or consent, been altered by inserting the name of Jennings as a co-obligor, it is void as to them, unless by some act of theirs or one of them, it has since been confirmed. Whether or not the alteration was made by the consent of Watters and Penick was a matter which was left with the jury and which was competent for them to decide under all the circumstances. With respect to the fourth instruction if we understand it correctly, the decision of the court below can not be sustained. That instruction seems to go upon the idea that there is an essential difference as to the legal effect of the note executed and discounted by the bank, and one that is executed to the bank, but not discounted; and that although the note, if it had been discounted after Penick signed it might have been binding upon him, it is not so if it has not been discounted. But the reason for the distinction is not perceived by us, and we apprehend that no such distinction has any foundation in law. Obligation of the surety does not depend on his executing at the same time with the principal. The judgment of the court must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Crittenden, C. S. Bibb and Brown, for plaintiff; Reed, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Bank of Limestone v. Penick 5 T.B.Mon. 25, 21 Ky. 25, 1827 WL 1495 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
