(Cite as: 4 Bibb 260,  7 Ky. 260 (Ky.),  1815 WL 761 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Shrewsberry, etc. v. Buckleys. Dec. 5, 1815. *1 Covenant by S and D to deliver to B at their furnace of Kanawha?? 6000 bushels of salt, 1000 bushels per month etc. Plea of covenants performed, damages may be recovered for the non-delivery of any installment, although a demand was not made at the salt works. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 406 343 Sales 343VIII Remedies of Buyer 343VIII(C) Actions for Breach of Contract 343k406 k. Conditions Precedent. Most Cited Cases In an action on a covenant to deliver at a certain furnace several thousand bushels of salt, 1,000 bushels per month, damages may be recovered for the nondelivery of any installment, although a demand was not made at the salt works, since, according to the obvious import of the covenant, before proof of a demand could be required of plaintiffs, the defendant should show a readiness to deliver the salt according to the stipulations. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE appellants, on the 6th of March, 1812, covenanted to deliver to the appellees, at their furnace of Kanawha, six thousand bushels of good merchantable salt, in good sufficient barrels, well packed and nailed; one thousand bushels thereof per month, for six months next thereafter, except the first two thousand, which was to be delivered at one time in two months; and the appellees in consideration thereof agreed to pay seventy one cents per bushel, and bound themselves on the receipt of each quantity of salt to execute their bonds for the amount received, payable within six months. The salt not having been delivered according to agreement, this action of covenant was brought by the appellees in the Court below, and on the trial of the issue joined to the plea of covenants performed, a verdict of nine hundred and forty seven dollars and fifty cents was found in favor of the appellees, and although a motion for that purpose was made by the appellants, a new trial was refused and judgment entered according to the verdict. There can be no question but what the Court correctly refused to instruct the jury that the plaintiffs in that Court could not recover any damages for any installment of salt, unless a demand of such installment was proven to be made at the Kanawha salt works within 6 months next ensuing the date of the covenant: for as the defendants in that Court held the affirmative of the issue, without any proof on the part of the plaintiffs, a verdict might regularly have been found for them, unless the issue was proven on the part of the defendants; and besides, according to the obvious import of the covenant, under any issue, before proof of a demand could be required of the plaintiffs, the defendants should show a readiness on their part to deliver the salt according to their stipulations. We are also of opinion, the motion of the appellants for a new trial was correctly overruled. There is certainly nothing in the grounds stated of the verdict being contrary to law and evidence, and with respect to the damages being excessive, the evidence as spread upon the record will not warrant the interposition of the Court on that ground. Without going into the inquiry as to the damages which might be recovered in a case like the present, it is obvious the appellants have no right to complain of the damages assessed against them; for the proof is abundant, from which the jury may have fairly inferred that the increased price of salt at the works, above what was to have been given by the appellants, exceeded at the time the salt should have been delivered the amount assessed by the jury; and as by the failure of the appellants to comply with their covenant, they have been benefited to a greater amount than the damages assessed against them, for the purpose of preserving due faith in the execution of agreements, they should be compelled to pay the amount of the verdict. *2 The judgment must be affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Shrewsberry v. Buckleys 4 Bibb 260, 7 Ky. 260, 1815 WL 761 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
