(Cite as: 4 Bibb 531,  7 Ky. 531 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1089 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Cord's administrators v. Johnson. May 27, 1817. *1 The execution of all writings which are witnessed, must be proved by the subscribing witness, unless he be dead, abroad, etc. Another witness cannot be introduced to prove the execution of an instrument, where it appears that the subscribing witness resides in the State and was summoned to attend, but was absent from the State at the trial. The law giving the right to persons who paid money as security to recover it in a summary way, is not unconstitutional. West Headnotes Jury 230 k 19(1) 230 Jury 230II Right to Trial by Jury 230k19 Civil Proceedings Other Than Actions;  Special Proceedings 230k19(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases The statute giving the right to sureties to recover by summary process money paid by them for their principal is constitutional. The court of equity had jurisdiction, and the trial was without a jury, before the constitution was formed. Evidence 157 k 374(7) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k374 Attesting  Witnesses 157k374(7) k. Grounds for Secondary Evidence. Most  Cited Cases The execution of all writings which are witnessed must be proved by the subscribing witness, unless he is dead or without the jurisdiction of the court; and where it appeared that the subscribing witness resided in the state, and was summoned to attend, but was absent from the state at the trial, it was held that another witness could not be introduced to prove the execution of the instrument. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. ON motion, the defendant in error obtained a judgment against the plaintiffs, for the amount of a judgment, cost, etc., which had been previously recovered against him as the surety of the intestate. The administrators having denied the execution, of the obligation wherein Johnson alleged himself to be the surety, its execution was allowed to be proven by the obligee, without the introduction of the subscribing witness, although he appeared to have been summoned to attend, and actually resides in Mason county, but at the time of trial was in the State of Ohio on a transient visit. Whether, therefore, the evidence of the subscribing witness should not have been required, is the first question presented for the consideration of this Court. Generally speaking, the execution of all instruments which are witnessed, must be proven by the subscribing witness himself. To this general rule, there are, it is true, exceptions: such as where the subscribing witness is dead, or domiciled abroad; and perhaps, as has been decided in modern times, the rule should be relaxed so as to dispense with the evidence of the attesting witness, where, though not actually domiciled abroad, yet, under the circumstances of the case, such as long absence, he may not be amenable to the process of the Court. But neither authority, reason, convenience nor necessity requires a relaxation of the rule in a case where, like the present, the subscribing witness not only resides within the jurisdiction of the Court, but has been in fact served with its process. *2 With respect to the other questions made by the assignment of errors, we are of opinion the Court decided correctly. We have no doubt, that by trying the cause without the intervention of a jury, the constitution was not in the slightest degree violated. By the constitution, it is true, the right of trial by jury is preserved inviolate; but as before its adoption, equity, according to its settled rules of proceeding, would without a jury have extended relief in a case like the present, it cannot, since the passage of the statute giving this summary remedy, be held an infraction of the constitution for the Court to try the cause without the intervention of a jury. Because the evidence of the subscribing witness was not produced, the judgment must however be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1817. McCord's Adm'rs v. Johnson 4 Bibb 531, 7 Ky. 531, 1817 WL 1089 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
