(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 57,  19 Ky. 57 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1192 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bodley v. Gaither. Nov. 15, 1825. *1 Occupants. Constitutional Law. Judicial Decisions. APPEAL FROM THE MASON CIRCUIT; ADAM BEATTY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Constitutional Law 92 k 2696 92 Constitutional Law 92XXII Obligation of Contract 92XXII(B) Contracts with Governmental Entities 92XXII(B)2 Particular Issues and Applications 92k2696 k. Contracts with States in General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 92k115) The statute of 1812, concerning occupying claimants of land, allowing them for improvements made on the land, etc., does not violate the compact between Kentucky and Virginia, which provided that all rights and interests to land should be determined by the laws then existing in Virginia, and is not unconstitutional. Courts 106 k 97(5) 106 Courts 106II Establishment, Organization, and Procedure 106II(G) Rules of Decision 106k88 Previous Decisions as Controlling or as  Precedents 106k97 Decisions of United States Courts as Authority in  State Courts 106k97(5) k. Construction of Federal  Constitution, Statutes, and Treaties. Most Cited Cases State courts are bound to conform their decisions to those of the supreme court of the United States on all questions involving the construction of the constitution of the United States. Improvements 206 k 2 206 Improvements 206k2 k. Statutory Provisions. Most Cited Cases Statute concerning occupying claimants of land allowing them for improvements, was not unconstitutional. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT. Statement. This is an appeal from a judgment rendered by the court below, in favor of Gaither, upon a report made out by commissioners, under the act of the Legislature of this state that passed in 1812, concerning occupying claimants. Two questions were made in argument by the counsel of Bodley. 1st. It was contended, that the title produced by Gaither is not such as to bring his case within the provisions of the occupying claimant laws of Kentucky. 2nd. That the laws enacted by the legislature of Kentucky upon the subject of occupying claimants are contrary to the compact between Virginia and Kentucky, and therefore contrary to the constitution of the United States and void. With respect to the first question, it is perfectly clear that the title produced by Gaither brings his case within the provisions of the law of this state concerning occupying claimants. The title of each party to this contest, is derived under the land law of Virginia, and the title of both parties have their foundation of public record. To occupants having such a title, the provisions of the act of 1812 emphatically applies. The second question has long since been decided by his court. Shortly after the passage of the act of 1812, its validity was drawn in question, and finally decided in the case of  Fowler versus Halbert, Spring term 1815, 4 Bibb, 52. The provisions of the act of 1812, were, in that case, held not to be inconsistent either with the compact between Virginia and Kentucky, or the constitution of this state, or the United States. That decision has heretofore been considered by this court as having put at rest all questions as to the validity of the act. In the many cases which have since arisen under the act and which have undergone the adjudication of this court, there has not escaped the slightest indication of a change of opinion. To the contrary the validity of the act has been uniformly sustained, and its provisions enforced. *2 The occupant law of 1812, held to be consistent with the compact and constitution in 1815,  4 Bibb 52, and ever since inforced, again declared valid. Aware that such had been the invariable decisions of this court, it was not attempted by the counsel of Bodley to controvert the validity of the act by arguments drawn from the constitution of the United States, or the compact between the States of Virginia and Kentucky, but we were referred to the case of  Green versus Biddle, 8 Wheaton 1, in which the Supreme court of the United States adjudged the act of 1812 to be contrary to the compact between the States of Virginia and Kentucky, and in violation of the constitution of the United States; and it was contended that the decision in that case is binding upon this court in the present case. That we should consider ourselves bound by the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States settling a construction of the constitution, or laws of the United States, in cases where the Supreme court possesses revising jurisdiction over the decisions of this court, we shall not pretend to controvert. This court is bound by the decisions of the supreme court only in cases settling the construction of the constitution and laws of the United States, and where that court has a revising jurisdiction over its decisions. But whether or not the present case is one of that description is unimportant in the present contest. Whether this is a case of that class or not does not arise___ For the case of Green versus Biddle was decided by three only of the seven judges that compose the Supreme court of the United States; and being the opinion of less than a majority of the judges, cannot be considered as having settled any constitutional principle. It would not, we apprehend, even in that court be considered conclusive in any subsequent case that may be brought before it. Without, therefore, intending to admit the binding force of that decision upon this court if it had been the unanimous opinion of all the judges composing the Supreme court, but leaving the effect of such a decision, if hereafter made, for future consideration, we have no hesitation, under the circumstances attending the case of Green versus Biddle, in not yielding to its authority. For___ Decisions not concurred in by a majority of the judges of the supreme court, as the case of Green and Biddle, are not authority. With the highest respect for the opinions of the members of the court concurring in that opinion, therefore, we must be permitted to say, that we still entertain the opinion, that the act of 1812, concerning occupying claimants, contains nothing incompatible with the constitution of the United States, or the compact between Virginia and Kentucky. The judgment must consequently be affirmed with cost and damages. Bibb, for appellant; Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1825. Bodley v. Gaither 3 T.B.Mon. 57, 19 Ky. 57, 1825 WL 1192 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
