(Cite as: 3 Bibb 192,  6 Ky. 192 (Ky.),  1813 WL 644 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John and Joseph Givens v. Bradley. Oct. 16, 1813. West Headnotes Exceptions, Bill Of 158 k 59(1) 158 Exceptions, Bill Of 158II Settlement, Signing, and Filing 158k59 Amendment or Correction 158k59(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases The inferior court, at any time during the term, may supply a defect or omission in a bill of exceptions by statement on the record. Venue 401 k 80 401 Venue 401III Change of Venue or Place of Trial 401k80 k. Jurisdiction and Proceedings After Change. Most Cited Cases If the court strike the cause from the docket for want of the order for change of venue, upon production of the order at the same term, it is proper to reinstate the cause. Assault and Battery 37 k 29 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(B) Actions 37k25 Evidence 37k29 k. Character and Physical Condition of Parties.  Most Cited Cases Plaintiff cannot prove that he is a man of good general character. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS was an action of assault and battery, brought in the Livingston Circuit Court, by Bradley, against the plaintiffs in error, and James Cary, William Love and Joshua Cary. The capias was executed on the plaintiffs in error, and bail taken according to the order of a judge. The writ was afterward, together with the two bail bonds, deposited by the clerk of Livingston with the clerk of Logan, and by him the cause was placed on the issue docket at the July term, 1810; at which term the Court, on the motion of the plaintiffs in error, caused the case to be stricken from the docket and ordered it to be remanded to the Livingston Court, because neither the original order of the judge for a change of the venue nor a copy thereof was filed with the clerk of Logan. At a subsequent day of the same term, on the production of a certified transcript of the proceedings in the Livingston Circuit Court, together with the order for the change of venue, the Court reinstated the cause upon the docket, and continued it until the next term. At the October term, the plaintiffs in error again moved the Court to strike the cause from the docket, because, at the preceding term, it had been stricken from the docket and remanded to the Livingston Circuit Court; the Court, however, overruled the motion. The plaintiffs in error then filed their plea of not guilty, but objected to going to trial unless the plaintiff in that Court would enter a nolle prosequi as to the other defendants, until the cause should be prepared for trial as to them. The Court overruled the objection and ordered a trial on the issue joined. In the progress of the cause the defendants below offered to prove that a quarrel had taken place on the same day, though at a different place to that where the battery for which the suit was brought against them happened, between one of them and the plaintiff in that Court, at which time the then plaintiff cut the hand of one of the defendants, and that before the blood had time to cool the battery for which this action was brought happened. The admission of this evidence was opposed by the plaintiff below and rejected by the Court. The plaintiff below (now defendant in error) likewise offered evidence of his good general character as an honest, peaceable, orderly member of society, which was objected by the plaintiffs in error, but the objection overruled and the evidence admitted. Verdict and judgment were obtained against the plaintiffs in error, from which they have prosecuted this writ of error. That the Court below decided correctly in refusing at the October term to strike the cause from the docket, we have no doubt. The circumstance of the cause having been struck from the docket at the July term, when there was nothing before the Court showing a change of the venue according to law, surely could furnish no cause for again remanding the cause, when it was then apparent the venue had been regularly changed to that Court. The order of a judge was regularly obtained and deposited with the clerk of Livingston, ordering a change of venue to the Logan Circuit Court; and though the Logan Court might have acted correctly in the absence of that order or a certified copy, in striking the cause from the docket in the first instance, they surely had the right, and properly exercised it, on a subsequent day of the same term, in reinstating the cause on the docket, upon the production of the proper papers to the Court; and consequently decided correctly in refusing at their next term to strike the cause from the docket. *2 If the Court strike the cause from the docket for want of the order for change of venue, upon production of the order at the same term it is proper to reinstate the cause. The next question presented for consideration is, should the plaintiff in the Court below have been permitted to go to trial as to the plaintiffs in error, without previously having entered a nolle prosequi as to the other defendants, or preparing the cause for trial as to them? In trespass against several defendants, the plaintiff may proceed to trial as to one or more, without entering a nolle prosequi as to the defendants who have not been served with process and who have not appeared. We know of no principle of law prohibiting a plaintiff, in actions of this description, from going to trial as to part of the defendants, without first disposing of the cause as to the others. It is evidently not necessary that the same jury should try all the issues which may be joined on the various pleas of different defendants; and if different trials may be had on different issues, no reason can be perceived why the plaintiff in such a case should be bound to prepare the cause for trial as to all the defendants before a trial is had on the issue joined by others. The next question presented by the assignment of errors is, should the plaintiffs in error have been permitted to prove the circumstances of the previous quarrel, as a provocation to that for which this suit was brought? If the Court decide against the admissibility of evidence offered by the defendant, and afterward the plaintiff waives his objection and the evidence is given, this cures the error, if one had been committed in the opinion of the Court. It is deemed unnecessary to decide whether the Court erred in the first instance, in rejecting the admission of such evidence: for if it were an error to exclude the evidence, although the Court was of opinion it was inadmissible, the plaintiff in that Court waived his objection to its admission, the evidence was heard and the jury informed by the Court that the evidence by the act of the plaintiff was made legal, and they were to consider it accordingly. The opinion of the Court, therefore, as to the inadmissibility of the evidence under the circumstances of this cause, can have produced no injury to the plaintiffs in error, and consequently for that cause the judgment should not be reversed. It is, however, objected that it does not appear in the bill of exceptions taken to the opinion of the Court as to the inadmissibility of the evidence, that the objection was waived and the evidence heard; but that the fact is ascertained by a statement made by the Court at a subsequent day of the term, not in the presence of the parties, and which it is contended should not be considered as a part of the record binding on the parties. That the Court had the power during the term to correct any error or supply any omission which might have taken place in preparing the bill of exceptions, there can be no doubt. It cannot be supposed that the power of the Court over bills of exceptions absolutely ceases upon their signing them; and if it does not, the only limitation in point of time for the exercise of that power, must be at the end of the term at which exceptions may be filed. The Court then having the power to correct or amend statements made in a bill of exceptions, the statement made by the Court in this cause should be taken as a part of the record, and conclusive as to the admission of the evidence which was previously opposed. *3 The Court may at any time during the term, supply an omission or defect in a bill of exceptions by statement on the cord. It remains only to determine whether the Court erred in admitting the plaintiff in that Court to prove he was a man of good general character? In trespass assault and battery, the plain'ff ought not to be permitted to give evidence of his general character. Vide Woodruff v. Whittlesey, Kirb. 30-- Thompson versus Church, 1 Root, 312. From every research which we have been enabled to make, no case has been found where this point has undergone a direct adjudication. It seems, however, to be a rule of evidence well settled, that the evidence must be applied to the particular fact in dispute; and in Peak's Law of Evidence, p. 6, it is said that the character of neither party to a civil cause shall be called in question, unless put in issue by the very proceeding itself. In prosecutions for criminal offenses which subject the offender to corporeal punishment, the general character of the accused cannot be inquired into, unless he should first call evidence in support of his character. But the admission of such evidence seems to be confined to those criminal cases only which subject the offender to corporeal punishment, and is not admitted in actions or informations for penalties, though founded on the fraudulent conduct of the defendants--See Peak's Evi. 8. In actions (such as for slander) where the injury complained of has been sustained by the character, this Court has hitherto adjudged it competent for the plaintiff to prove his general character; but in cases like the present, to permit the plaintiff to go into an inquiry as to his general character, when his character is in nowise involved in the issue, nor affected by the injury complained of, would be a violation of the general rules of evidence, and evidently improper. The Court below, therefore, erred in permitting the inquiry. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1813. Givens v. Bradley 3 Bibb 192, 6 Ky. 192, 1813 WL 644 (Ky.), 6 Am.Dec. 646 END OF DOCUMENT
