(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 358,  9 Ky. 358 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1054 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Peck v. Joseph M'Murtry. Jun. 12, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Notice 277 k 13 277 Notice 277k13 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases The general rule with respect to the necessity of alleging notice is that when the matter alleged lies peculiarly in the knowledge of the plaintiff he must aver that defendant had notice, but when it lies equally in the knowledge of defendant such averment is unnecessary. Action 13 k 11 13 Action 13I Grounds and Conditions Precedent 13k11 k. Notice, Demand, and Tender. Most Cited Cases An allegation of notice to defendant of a fact before bringing the action need not be made in the declaration, if the fact is as well within the knowledge of defendant as of plaintiff, or defendant has the means of ascertaining the happening of the contingency. Contracts 95 k 336 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k336 k. Notice and Demand. Most Cited  Cases Where a contract for services provides for payment when the work is completed, a declaration for the value of the services need not allege notice by plaintiff to defendant that the work had been performed, when defendant could by investigation ascertain that fact for himself. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This action was brought by M'Murtry upon the following writing:-- "I agree to pay Joseph M'Murtry three hundred dollars, so soon as he digs and bores two hundred feet on Triplet's creek, Fleming county, or three dollars for every foot over one hundred feet, and not exceeding two hundred feet.--Witness my hand and seal this 20th June, 1818. JOHN PECK, (Seal.))) The declaration of M'Murtry alleges a performance of the work on his part, and the failure of Peck to pay, but fails to aver notice to Peck of the work having been performed. Whether, therefore, notice should have been averred, is the only question for the decision of this court. An averment of notice of a fact need not be inserted in a declaration, if that fact is reasonably as well within knowledge of the defendant as of the plaintiff, or if defendant has the means of ascertaining the happening of the contingency. Vide ante, Keys v. Powel & Co. ac. We think no averment of notice was necessary. As the boring and digging was to be done for Peck, it was certainly incumbent on him to designate the place before M'Murtry could regularly proceed with the work. Peck, therefore, must be presumed to know the place, and was consequently furnished with the means of ascertaining whether or not the work was performed; and if so, it can not have been necessary for notice of the work having been done to be given him by M'Murtry; for notice is never necessary, unless the thing to be performed lies more properly in the knowledge of the plaintiff, and from its nature the defendant can not be presumed to possess means of ascertaining its performance. *2 The decision of the circuit court, overruling Peck's demurrer to the declaration, was therefore correct. The judgment must be affirmed with cost and damages. Ky.App. 1820. Peck v. McMurtry 2 A.K.Marsh. 358, 9 Ky. 358, 1820 WL 1054 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
