(Cite as: 2 Bibb 583,  5 Ky. 583 (Ky.),  1812 WL 633 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wade v. Thurman. Spring Term, 1812. *1 Fraud in the sale of a tract of land, is cognizable either at law or in equity. West Headnotes Fraud 184 k 31 184 Fraud 184II Actions 184II(A) Rights of Action and Defenses 184k31 k. Nature and Form of Remedy. Most Cited  Cases Fraud in the sale of land is cognizable either at law or in equity. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE plaintiff brought suit in the Green Circuit Court against the defendant. He charges in his declaration in substance, that he purchased a tract of land from the defendant at the price of $1084; that at the time of sale the defendant represented to him that the title was in Richard Thurman, who would at any time convey; that relying upon the representations of the defendant, he made the purchase, and actually paid the defendant the price for the land. That in fact neither Richard Thurman nor the defendant had any title, and that the defendant at the time of the sale and payment, well knew of the defect of title, but most artfully and fraudulently concealed from Wade a knowledge thereof, and by his fraudulent conduct obtained the sale, etc. The defendant demurred to the declaration, which was joined by Wade, and the Court awarded judgment on the demurrer in favor of the defendant; to reverse which Wade prosecutes this appeal, and has assigned for error that the Court erred in the judgment given on the demurrer. Wherever a vendor, either by concealment or false representations, is guilty of fraud in the sale of land, the purchaser may either bring an action on the case, or file his bill for relief--Sug. 330, Butler's note 1 to Co. Litt. 384 a, 1 Com. Dig. 236. In this case the declaration shows clearly a fraud in Thurman, it contains a good cause of action. The Court evidently erred in awarding judgment in favor of the defendant on the demurrer. It is therefore considered by the Court, that the judgment of the Green Circuit Court is erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, etc., that this cause be remanded to that Court for further proceedings to be had and that the defendant be permitted to withdraw his demurrer and plead to the action, if he should apply for leave to do so, upon the payment of the costs attending the amendment. But if he should not make such application, that judgment be awarded in favor of Wade on the demurrer, and a writ of inquiry be awarded, etc. Ky.App. 1812. Wade v. Thurman 2 Bibb 583, 5 Ky. 583, 1812 WL 633 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
