(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 245,  17 Ky. 245 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1547 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Bank of Carlisle v. Hopkins, &c. Dec. 18, 1824. *1 Corporations, By-Laws, Cashier's Bond, Pleading by Plaintiff, Demurrer, Verdict, Arrest of Judgment. APPEAL FROM THE NICHOLAS CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Banks and Banking 52 k 51 52 Banks and Banking 52II Banking Corporations and Associations 52II(D) Officers and Agents 52k51 k. Election or appointment, qualification, and tenure.  Most Cited Cases A bank authorized to make by-laws and to take bond from the cashier for the "faithful discharge of the duties of his office," may take a bond with condition that he shall perform the duties of his office according to law and the by-laws of the institution, and that he shall not make known any secrets, or the state of the funds, etc., to any person except the directors, etc. As these things may be required of the cashier by the by-laws, they may be required in the bond. Bonds 58 k 123 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k123 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k124) Though a declaration in debt on a bond, with conditions containing some insufficient assignments of breaches, is good on general demurrer, if a general verdict be rendered for the plaintiff the judgment may be arrested. Banks and Banking 52 k 51 52 Banks and Banking 52II Banking Corporations and Associations 52II(D) Officers and Agents 52k51 k. Election or appointment, qualification, and tenure.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 101k288) A bank authorized by statute to make by-laws, and to take bond from its cashier conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, may enlarge the condition so as to impose all duties which it could by these by-laws require of the officer, and so exact them without putting them into by-laws. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This suit was brought by the bank in its corporate name, against its cashier, Moses Hopkins, and his sureties, upon his official bond. The declaration is in debt, upon the penalty, setting out the condition, and assigning breaches specifically. Upon a demurrer to the declaration, the court below rendered judgment against the bank. (1.) We have been unable to perceive the principle upon which the court went, in sustaining the demurrer, unless it was thought that the bond upon which the action is founded possesses no legal validity, in consequence of the condition not being in strict conformity to the requisitions of the act incorporating the bank. (1) The condition of a bond of a cashier of a bank authorized by statute to make by-laws "for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office," is broken by the infraction of any valid by-law the corporation may prescribe-- Arg. The act requires of the cashier, before he enters upon the duties of his office, to give bond with two or more securities, to be approved of by the directors of the corporation, in a sum not less than thirty thousand dollars, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office. *2 The bond upon which the suit is founded, contains a condition, "that said Hopkins should well and truly perform all the duties of his office according to law and by the by-laws of the institution, during the term of his continuance in office; and that he should also carefully preserve all money, books, papers, &c. belonging to said bank; and not at any time, directly or indirectly, make known, in any way, to any person or persons, except the president and directors of said bank, any secrets, or other words that may discover the situation or state of the funds or credits of the said bank." The condition of the bond thus recited, will at once be perceived not to be in language precisely the same as that employed in the act requiring the cashier to give bond; but, though not in language the same, we apprehend the variance is not such as to invalidate the bond. It was incumbent upon Hopkins, according to the provisions of the act of incorporation, to execute a bond conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office. If such had been the precise expressions of the condition of the bond which was executed, it could not be denied, but under the authority given in other parts of the act, to the directors, to adopt by-laws, that the performance of every stipulation contained in the condition of the bond, might, in the form of by-laws, have been required of the cashier; and after the adoption of such by-laws, and failure to perform the duties imposed by them, an action might be sustained on the bond. A bank authorized by statute to make by-laws, and to take bond from its cashier, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, may enlarge the condition so as to embrace all duties which it could by its by-laws require of the officer, and so exact them, without putting them into by-laws. It is not, therefore, perceived, how it is possible for any stipulation contained in the condition, to render the bond invalid. The condition requires nothing to be performed by the cashier, which might not have been required of him by a bond conditioned in strict conformity to the act of incorporation. Under such a bond, it is true, the duties would have to be imposed upon the cashier through the medium of by-laws; but the adoption of by-laws would be the act of the directors, to whom the bond was executed, and if competent, after the receipt of a bond from the cashier, to impose duties which his bond would oblige him to perform, what principle is it, that can exclude the directors, when taking the bond, from adopting rules for the government of the cashier, and making those rules compose part of the stipulations in the condition of the bond? (2.) The demurrer ought not, therefore, to have been sustained; but, as the cause must be remanded for further proceedings in the court below, it is proper to remark, that although the declaration contains a good cause of action, some of the breaches assigned are insufficient; so that if a general verdict should be found for the plaintiffs, upon the declaration as it now stands, the judgment might be arrested. *3 (2) Though a declaration in debt, on a bond with conditions, containing some insufficient assignments of breaches, is good on general demurrer, if a general verdict be rendered for plaintiff, the judgment may be arrested. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and judgment there entered in favor of the plaintiffs in that court, upon the demurrer, unless the defendants should apply for leave to withdraw their demurrer and plead to the action, and such further proceedings there had, as may not be in consistent with this opinion. Bibb, for appellants. Ky.App. 1824. Bank of Carlisle v. Hopkins 1 T.B.Mon. 245, 17 Ky. 245, 1824 WL 1547 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 113 END OF DOCUMENT
