(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 510,  20 Ky. 510 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1406 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Commonwealth for Stafford v. Withers. Apr. 28, 1827. *1 Penal Statutes. Limitations. Parent and Child. ERROR TO THE LINCOLN COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76H k 32 76H Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76HV Paternity Proceedings 76Hk32 k. Grounds of Proceeding in General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 53k21  Bastards) Bastardy proceedings are not for the relief of the county from support of the child, but are for the benefit of the mother, and to enforce a natural duty. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. On the 3rd July, 1824, there issued from a justice of the peace for Lincoln county, against Withers, a warrant containing a charge of his being the father of a bastard child, of which Sarah Anne Stafford was delivered, on the 24th day of December, 1822. Withers was arrested under the warrant, and having been brought before the justice, was recognized to appear and answer the charge before the next county court. He accordingly appeared, and moved the court to quash the proceedings, and discharge him from confinement. The motion prevailed, and he was discharged. Withers arrested for being the father of a bastard, and discharged in the county court on motion. The question is, was the court correct in sustaining Withers' motion? The court appears to have been governed in its decision, by the opinion that the proceedings against Withers was barred by the act of 1796, 2 Dig. L. K. 864, limiting the time for bringing certain suits, &c. That act provides that "all actions, suits, bills, indictments or informations which shall be had, sued or exhibited upon any penal act of assembly, not affecting life or limb, made or to be made, shall be had, brought, sued or exhibited, within one year next after the offense committed against such act, and not after." The language of this act is too explicit to admit of a doubt, but that after the lapse of one year from the commission of an offense against any penal act of assembly, the offender is not liable to be proceeded against in any of the modes mentioned in the act. Were we, therefore, to concede that the act concerning bastards, under which the proceedings were conducted against Withers, is a penal act of assembly, there would certainly be great plausibility in saying that the court was correct in deciding, that after one year from the birth of the child of whom he was charged with being the father, he was not liable to be charged with the maintenance of the child. Proceedings for the recovery of penalties given by statute must be commenced within one year. But we do not admit that the act concerning bastards can, with any propriety, be denominated a penal act of assembly. It will be granted, that without committing an offense against a penal act, it is impossible to become the father of a bastard; but the act against which the offense would, in such a case, be committed, and which we should denominate penal, is that act which imposes penalties upon the perpetrators of fornication and adultery. Any proceeding which might, therefore, be commenced for the purpose of subjecting the offender to the payment of such a penalty, would doubtless be a proceeding under a penal act of assembly, and as such, should be commenced within one year from the commission of the offense, and not after. But such is not the object of the proceeding against Withers. The warrant issued against him under the act concerning bastards, not for the purpose of compelling him to pay the penalty which he had incurred by the commission of fornication in becoming the father of a bastard, but for the purpose of forcing him, after the birth of the child, to perform a natural duty to his offspring, by contributing to its maintenance and support. *2 Statutes which compel men to maintain their bastard children are not penal, but to enforce a natural duty. The court, therefore, erred in supposing the proceedings against Withers were barred by lapse of time, and consequently, the order which went to release him from the charge, must be reversed with cost. Denny, Attorney General, and Montgomery, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. Commonwealth v. Withers 4 T.B.Mon. 510, 20 Ky. 510, 1827 WL 1406 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
