(Cite as: 3 Bibb 347,  6 Ky. 347 (Ky.),  1814 WL 785 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Pierce v. Bush. May 26, 1814. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 42(2) 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(D) Disqualification or Misconduct of or Affecting Jury 275k42 Disqualification of Jurors 275k42(2) k. Bias or Prejudice and Formation or Expression  of Opinion. Most Cited Cases Where a party, after a verdict, proves that one of the jurors had said, before the trial, that his mind was made up against him, and the party also makes affidavit that he knew nothing of the fact before the trial, this is cause for a new trial. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS writ of error is brought to a judgment obtained by Bush in an action of trespass prosecuted against him in the Court below by Pierce. A motion was made in that Court for a new trial, on the ground that one of the jurors, before the trial, had observed his mind was made up against Pierce; and the plaintiff made oath he knew nothing of the juror having formed an opinion before the trial, and produced the affidavit of Joab Watson, proving the declarations of the juror. The Court below rejected the affidavit of Watson, and overruled the plaintiff's motion for a new trial. And the question made for the decision of this Court, is whether or not a new trial should have been granted? After verdict a party proves that one of the jurors before the trial had observed his mind was made up against him, and makes affidavit he knew nothing of the fact before the trial, this is a cause for a new trial. We are of opinion it should. It is clear the grounds upon which the new trial was asked, furnish a good cause of challenge against the juror; but as it appears from the plaintiff's affidavit he was ignorant of the cause of challenge when the jury was sworn, according to the case of M'Kinly v. Smith, in this Court, Hard. Rep. 167, he should have been relieved by a new trial. The Court below erred, therefore, in not admitting the affidavit of Watson to prove the declarations of the juror, and in not granting a new trial. The judgment of that Court must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to that Court for a new trial. Ky.App. 1814. Pierce v. Bush 3 Bibb 347, 6 Ky. 347, 1814 WL 785 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
