(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 179,  8 Ky. 179 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1292 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Shadburn v. Ann Jinnings. Apr. 10, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 708 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k706 Persons Not Parties or Privies 228k708 k. Judgment as Evidence in General. Most Cited  Cases A judgment or record in a former action is not admissible in evidence as affecting the rights of any person not a party or privy thereto. Detinue 126 k 1 126 Detinue 126k1 k. Nature and Scope of Remedy. Most Cited Cases A plaintiff in detinue may release a judgment in his favor for the value, and proceed for the specific property. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of detinue, brought by the appellee in the court below, to recover from the appellant a negro woman and her child. The appellee asserted her right under a gift from her father, James Jinnings; but the appellant claiming under a certain William Gibson, introduced, on the trial in the court below, the record of a judgment in favor of a certain Harrison against the said James Jinnings, and proved, that Gibson purchased the negro at a sheriff's sale, made under the execution which issued upon the judgment. To repel this evidence, and for the purpose (as stated by the appellees) of showing (in connection with other circumstances) that the judgment against James Jinnings was fraudulently obtained, the appellee then introduced evidence, proving that the demand upon which the judgment was recovered, had, before the gift to the appellee, been paid off by Gibson, for whose benefit the suit was carried on, and the judgment recovered in the name of Harrison; but to this evidence the appellant objected, and his objections being overruled, a verdict and judgment was obtained by the appellee. Whether, therefore, the evidence was admissible, is the first question presented for determination. We are of opinion that the evidence was properly admitted. The gift of the appellee, although it might be avoided by the creditors and purchasers of James Jinnings, is certainly valid, not only as to Jinnings, but all volunteers under him. To repel the appellee's right to the slaves, derived under the gift from James Jinnings, it was, therefore, incumbent upon the appellant, not only to prove, that his vendor purchased the slaves under a fieri facias, which issued against James Jinnings, but for the purpose of proving the sale was made for the benefit of Jinnings' creditor, the judgment upon which the execution issued was properly introduced. But as the appellee was neither party nor privy to that judgment, to make it conclusive against him, would illy accord with the dictates of common justice, and subvert a fundamental rule of evidence. For if, after the demand upon Jinnings was satisfied, the judgment, through the instrumentality of Gibson, was fraudulently obtained, it is plain that Gibson can not have gained such an interest in the slaves, under his purchase from the sheriff, as can entitle him to defeat the gift to the appellee, and if so, the appellant claiming through him can bein no better situation. To shew, therefore, that the demand upon Jinnings was satisfied, and thereby, in connection with other circumstances, to prove the judgment was fraudulently obtained against him, the court below properly admitted the evidence introduced by the appellee. *2 A judgment is concusive only between parties and privies--a stranger may impeach it. After the jury had found the negroes for the appellee, and assessed their separate values, the appellee released all claim to the value, insisting upon her right to proceed for the negroes, and the court below being of opinion she had a right to do so, rendered judgment in her favor for the negroes, and the only remaining question which we deem material to be noticed, involves the propriety of rendering such a judgment. A plaintiff in detinue may release the judgment for the value, and proceed for the specific property. In our researches upon this subject, we have been unable to find any authority directly in point, but we are unable, upon principle, to discern any solid objection against the judgment. By the finding of the jury, the appellee is shewn to be entitled to the negroes, and as, by the surrendder of the negroes, the appellant, if no release had been given, might have avoided a recovery of their value, no reason is perceived why, by a release of the value, the right to recover the negroes should be defeated. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. B. Hardin, for appellant; Littell and Wickliffe, for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Shadburn v. Jinnings 1 A.K.Marsh. 179, 8 Ky. 179, 1818 WL 1292 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
