(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 579,  20 Ky. 579 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1486 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bibb v. Williams. May 5, 1827. *1 Registration of Mortgages. Evidence. ERROR TO THE SIMPSON CIRCUIT; HENRY P. BROADNAX, JUDGE. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 370(8) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k370 Necessity in  General 157k370(8) k. Record as Dispensing with Proof  of Execution. Most Cited Cases A mortgage of slaves, proved or acknowledged before the clerk of any county court, and recorded in the county where the property may be, within 60 days after its execution, may be read in evidence without further proof. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] Upon examination of the various acts of assembly, which relate to the taking of proof and recording of deeds, we are of opinion, that whether the deed be a mortgage of slaves or land, it is proper for the clerk of the county court, where the slaves or land may be, to record the mortgage within sixty days after its execution, provided it be acknowledged, or proved by two witnesses, before him or the clerk of any other county court, and provided also that when proved or acknowledged before the clerk of any other county than that in which the land or slave are, the proof or acknowledgment be certified upon the mortgage, by the clerk taking the same; and as the mortgage, which in this case, was offered in evidence to the jury by Bibb, appears to have been recorded in the office of the county court of Simpson, where the slaves were, within sixty days from its execution, though it was recorded upon the certificate of the clerk of Logan county, of its having been proved before him, the court below should have permitted it to have been used in evidence. Mortgage of land or slaves proved or acknowledged before the clerk of any county court, and recorded in the county where the property may be, within sixty days after its execution, may be read in evidence without further proof. In rejecting the mortgage from going in evidence, therefore, the court erred. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Brown, for plaintiff; Crittenden and Mayes, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Bibb v. Williams 4 T.B.Mon. 579, 20 Ky. 579, 1827 WL 1486 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
