(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 416,  19 Ky. 416 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1331 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gale's Heirs v. Miller. Dec. 20, 1826. *1 Devise. Dower. Slaves. Forfeiture. Infants. Statutes. Purchaser. Construction. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Descent and Distribution 124 k 52(2) 124 Descent and Distribution 124II Persons Entitled and Their Respective Shares 124II(B) Surviving Husband or Wife 124k52 Nature of Right in General 124k52(2) k. Rights of Surviving Wife in General. Most  Cited Cases Slaves 356 k 10 356 Slaves 356k10 k. Regulation of Slaves, Freedmen, and Free Negroes. Most Cited Cases The statute of Kentucky, prohibiting the removal of dower slaves from the state, applies only to the widow and her second husband. Wills 409 k 802(2) 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(K) Election 409k798 Operation and Effect 409k802 Rights of Other Devisees and  Legatees 409k802(2) k. Remainders and Other Future or  Contingent Estates. Most Cited Cases Where slaves are devised to children, to be received when they come of age, and the wife renounces the provisions of the will, and a part of the slaves are assigned to her as dower, upon a forfeiture by the widow the children, though under age, may maintain an action for the slaves. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment recovered by Miller, in an action of detinue brought against him by the heirs of Thomas Gale deceased for two slaves Isabel and Ben. Detinue for two slaves. After the death of Gale, his widow renounced the provision made for her, by his will, and in the mode prescribed by law, the slaves in question, together with others, were assigned to her and received into her possession, as the part of the slaves of her deceased husband, to which by law she was entitled. Supposing that by a removal of part of the slaves assigned to the widow from the state, the right which she held in the whole, were forfeited, and that according to the import of the act of the legislature of this state upon that subject, they became entitled to the slaves, the heirs of Gale brought this action of detinue against Miller who holds the possession of Isabel and Ben. The plaintiffs, as the heirs claim the slaves on the ground that others assigned with these to the widow as dower had been removed from the state. The trial was had on the general issue, and after the evidence of both parties was through, on the motion of Miller, the court in substance instructed the jury, that the heirs of Gale could not sustain their action, if they should be of opinion from the evidence that either of the heirs was under twenty-one years of age. *2 Instructions on the trial. From the bill of exceptions taken to this opinion the court seem to have supposed that by the will of Gale, his children were not entitled to their respective interests in his estate until they arrived to the age of twenty-one, and that although by a removal of part of the slaves from the state, the right to the whole dower may have been forfeited, no action can be maintained by the heirs until they all arrive at the age of twenty-one. It is undoubtedly true, that according to the import of the will of the testator, his children are not entitled to their portions of the estate until they respectively arrive at the age of twenty-one years. But it is equally clear that the will contains no provision pointing out the interest which each of the testator's children was to have in the estate, and that it was designed by the testator to leave the interest of each child to be ascertained by the law prescribing the rules for the descent and distribution of intestate's estates; and that although the time when each child should receive his part of the estate is mentioned in the will, the intention of the testator in doing so must have been to limit the provision which he had made for his wife, to provide for whom appears to have been the main and principal object in making the will. Whatever might, therefore, have been the effect of the will upon any claim which might have been asserted by the heirs, if the widow had not renounced the provision made to her by the will, we are unable to perceive how it is possible after renouncing that provision of the will, in an action like the present to preclude a recovery by the heirs until they shall have arrived to the age of twenty-one years, if under the act upon that subject there has been a forfeiture of the widow's right to the slaves held under the assignment of her dower. Where slaves are devised to the children at the age of twenty-one years, and the wife renounces the provisions of the will, and a part are assigned to her as dower, if a forfeiture is committed, the children may at once maintain their action of detinue, tho' within age. If there is a forfeiture the act explicitly declares it shall be to the persons having the estate in reversion, and the heirs of Gale undoubtedly have that interest. The slaves to which the widow was entitled after renouncing the provision made for her by the will, were, by the directions of the act of the Legislature upon that subject, to be holden by her during her life, and at her death to go to the persons to whom they would have passed and gone if she had never made such a renunciation. Whether we, therefore, construe the will as containing a bequest of the slaves of the testator to his children as they might arrive to the age of twenty-one, or consider it as containing nothing more than a provision for the testator's wife, but pointing out the time when the children should receive their proportions of the estate to which by operation of law they would be entitled, it is equally evident that the plaintiffs in the court below, who are the children of the testator, hold the reversionary interest in the slaves which were assigned to the widow as her dower, and that for any act which works a forfeiture of the dower-right, they may sustain an action to recover the slaves though neither of them may have arrived at the age of twenty-one years. The court below was therefore incorrect, in supposing that the infancy of either of the plaintiffs could have any influence upon their right of action, and that it consequently erred in hypothecating its instructions upon the opinion which the jury might entertain on the evidence as to the fact of infancy. *3 Whether the will be regarded as devise of the slave to the wife until the mature age of the children, leaving the property to be after that distributed by law or a devise to them at full age, when the widow has renounced and received her dower--if she forfeit her estate the children's right to the possession at once accrues. It moreover, from the bill of exceptions, appears that evidence was introduced on the trial, conducing to shew that the widow of Gale after the assignment of her dower, intermarried with a certain Skinner, who afterwards sold the slaves in question to the defendant Miller, and then removed and carried with him from the state another of the slaves which had been assigned to his wife, and held by him in right of her dower. Slaves in question sold defendant by the husband of the doweress and afterwards he the husband removes another of the dower slaves out of the state.-- And that on the motion of the plaintiffs the court refused to instruct the jury that, if they believed from the evidence that Skinner the husband, after his marriage with the widow of the testator, Gale, had removed out of this commonwealth either of the slaves held by him, in right of his wife's widow, without the assent of the persons having the reversionary interest, that it was a forfeiture to those in reversion of his interest in the dower slaves then holden, and those by him previously sold and transferred to the defendant. Motion for instruction that this was a forfeiture of defendants slaves-- overruled. If by this application to the court it were designed to make the question whether or not all the interest which a husband holds in the dower slaves of his wife will be forfeited by the husband removing any one of the slaves out of the commonwealth, we should have no hesitation in answering in the affirmative. It is not the slave that may be removed that is declared by the act to be forfeited, but if the husband shall remove, or voluntarily permit to be removed out of this commonwealth, any of the slaves which he may hold in right of his wife's dower, without the consent of him or her in reversion, the act declares, it shall be lawful for him or her in reversion, to enter into, possess and enjoy, not the slave removed only, but all the estate which such husband holdeth in right of his wife's dower, for and during the life of the said husband. If the husband of the doweress remove or voluntarily permit to be removed, any of the slaves held in dower, the whole he holds are forfeited to the reversioner. But it is possible that by the application of the plaintiffs to the court for instructions it may have been designed to obtain the opinion of the court upon the question whether or not, after a sale of part of the dower slaves of the wife, that the right acquired by the purchaser under the sale is forfeited by the husband afterwards removing other of the dower slaves from the commonwealth without the consent of the reversioner. If such were the question intended to be propounded to the court its solution will be found to be perfectly obvious by adverting to the twenty-sixth section of the act concerning last wills and testaments contained in second Digest L. K. 1247. By that section it will be seen that it is only the estate which the husband holds in right of his wife's dower, at the time any of the slaves are removed, and not the estate which may have been previously sold by him to others, that the reversioner is authorized and permitted to enter into, possess and enjoy. *4 But the slaves that may have been sold before the act of forfeiture, are not forfeited and lost to the purchaser. There is one other question which in the progress of the trial in the court below was made, and which should be noticed. It is, whether or not, the right of a person who may have purchased from a husband, slaves held by him in right of his wife, may be forfeited by the purchaser afterwards removing any of the purchased slaves from the commonwealth. It will be admitted that a purchaser might be restricted from removing from the commonwealth any dower slave, with as much propriety as might either a widow or any other person that she should marry, but unless restrained by legislative enactment it is perfectly clear that a purchaser of a dower slave may remove the slave from the commonwealth without subjecting his right to forfeiture. And after examining the act of the legislature upon that subject, we are utterly incapable of finding any provision, which upon any fair principle of interpretation can, in our opinion, be construed to form any restriction upon the right of a purchaser to remove from the commonwealth, any slave held by him in right of a widow's dower. Purchaser of slaves held in dower may remove them without the state and not incur a forfeiture of either the slave removed or one retained in the state. The provisions of the act are in express terms confined to the widow or her husband, and we are not at liberty, by construction, to enlarge the plain import of the expressions of the act, so as to make it include purchasers under them. Indeed the very circumstance of the act mentioning a removal by the widow or her husband only, strongly implies an intention by the makers of the act not to interdict a removal of the slaves, by a bona fide purchaser from them. If it had been intended to impose a restriction upon purchasers as well as the widow and her husband, the Legislature after indicating by their enactment in the section which relates to the husband, their understanding that he would not have been restrained from removing the dower slaves held by him in right of his wife, by anything contained in the previous section, which interdicts a removal by the widow, would undoubtedly have either employed language of more comprehensive import than that contained in the act, or by further enactment would have provided for the case of a removal by purchasers. The statute prohibiting the removal of dower slaves applies only to the widow and her husband. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett for plaintiff; Talbot for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Gale's Heirs v. Miller 3 T.B.Mon. 416, 19 Ky. 416, 1826 WL 1331 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
