(Cite as: 4 Bibb 100,  7 Ky. 100 (Ky.),  1815 WL 680 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Layson v. Galloway, etc. May 24, 1815. *1 The Court are not bound to instruct the jury upon abstract propositions of law; but if from the record it appears that evidence was given conducing to prove the fact upon which the deduction of law was predicated, the Court was bound to instruct the jury upon the point; and whether the evidence is stated in the particular exception to the refusal of the Court, or in a bill of exceptions to another point, is immaterial. If the judges are equally divided, whereby no instruction is given, when it ought to have been given as moved for; the judgment must be reversed. That the adverse party was willing that the instructionshould have been given, yet if it was not given, the judgment must be reversed. Twenty years actual adverse, uninterrupted possession will bar the action of ejectment. Oue in possession deriving title under the elder conflicting grant is possessed to the extent of the boundary of the grant. The boundary of the grant is a question of fact to the jury. But the defendant having given evidence as to his possession under the conflicting grant, and as to the boundaries, he was entitled to the instruction of the Court as to the effect of twenty years' possession in case the jury should find that fact from the evidence. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 39 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(C) Rulings and Instructions at Trial 275k39 k. Instructions. Most Cited Cases A new trial should be granted, where a proper instruction was asked for on a point to prove which evidence was offered, and the judges disagreed on the point, whereby the instruction was not given, although the adverse party was willing that the instruction should be given. Adverse Possession 20 k 103 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k99 Possession Under Color of Title 20k103 k. Mixed Possession Under Hostile Titles,  or Conflicting Grants or Surveys. Most Cited Cases One in possession, deriving title under an elder conflicting grant, is possessed to the extent of the boundary of the grant. Boundaries 59 k 40(1) 59 Boundaries 59II Evidence, Ascertainment, and Establishment 59k38 Trial of Issues 59k40 Questions for Jury 59k40(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Deeds 120 k 119 120 Deeds 120III Construction and Operation 120III(B) Property Conveyed 120k119 k. Questions for Jury. Most Cited  Cases The question whether particular land is or is not within the description of a deed is a matter of fact for the jury. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *2 THIS is an appeal from a judgment in an ejectment entered in favor of the appellees, who were plaintiffs in the Court below. The appellant derived title to the land in contest under an adverse claim in the name of John Morton; and in the progress of the trial moved that Court to instruct the jury "that if they should be satisfied from the evidence in the cause that the appellant had been in actual quiet and uninterrupted possession of the land in contest for upward of twenty years prior to the suing out the writ of ejectment in the suit, and that the possession was obtained without fraud or other tortious act of the appellant, that in that case the appellee could not recover in this action;" but the Court being divided in opinion, overruled the motion; and though the appellees' counsel were willing the instructions should be given, the Court refused to do so, to which refusal the appellant's counsel excepted. Were the appellant in the actual adverse possession of the land in contest for twenty years before the commencement of the present suit, that possession would incontestably bar this action. But it is contended that although this is the general doctrine of the law in relation to actions of ejectment, yet as the bill of exceptions does not contain a statement of the evidence, the appellant's case may not have required the opinion of the Court on that point; and if so, that Court correctly withheld the instructions. It will not be denied, but that Courts are not bound to instruct juries on mere abstract principles, which can have no possible influence on the case before them, nor will it be contended this Court should reverse a judgment unless the record presents a case of palpable error. Were there record in this case, therefore, stript of all circumstances but those contained in the bill of exceptions taken to the refusal of the Court to give the instructions in question, as by those exceptions the evidence is not detailed and the Court may have decided correctly, we would not be authorized to say that Court erred. But as those instructions appear to have been asked after the whole of the evidence was gone through, and were predicated upon the hypothesis of the jury finding from the evidence twenty years' adverse possession: and as also by other exceptions taken in the further progress of the cause, that evidence is made part of the record, it becomes proper we should look into the evidence for the purpose of ascertaining whether it in any degree conduced to prove such a possession in the appellant as could influence his case, or make it proper for the instructions to have been given. For if the evidence in any respect conduced to prove such a possession, whatever might be our opinions as to the weight or ultimate effect of that evidence, were we required to decide upon it, the appellant had a right to require, and the Court were bound to decide the law applicable to it. That the evidence conduced in some degree to prove such a possession, we apprehend, by a slight attention to the evidence will be abundantly evident. It is true that neither the appellant nor the appellee have been possessed twenty years by clearing or improving the land in contest, but it is clearly shown the appellant has resided upon and actually improved and occupied, for upward of twenty years, part of the land included within the lines of Morton's survey, under whom the appellant derives his claim; and as Morton's patent is elder in date than that of the appellees, the possession of the appellant under Morton's claim must be considered co-extensive with the boundaries of Morton's patent, and to that extent will protect the appellant in the present contest. *3 Whether, therefore, the appellant was actually possessed of the land in contest, depends upon the extent of Morton's patent boundary; and as evidence, both parol and written, was produced by both parties in relation to that boundary, whether it included the land in controversy formed an inquiry peculiarly proper for the jury, and the Court consequently should have instructed them as required by the appellant. The circumstance that the appellees' counsel manifested a willingness that the instructions should be given, cannot affect the case: for as the appellant had a right to the opinion and instructions of the Court in relation to his case, the refusal of the Court to give those instructions is an error which could not be cured by any act of the adverse party. The judgment of the Court below must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded to that Court for a new trial, and such other and farther proceedings there had as may be necessary to a final decision. The appellant must recover his costs. Ky.App. 1815. Layson v. Galloway 4 Bibb 100, 7 Ky. 100, 1815 WL 680 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
