(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 353,  10 Ky. 353 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1090 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Abraham Hite v. Samuel Taylor et al. Apr. 19, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE GREEN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Powers 307 k 20 307 Powers 307II Construction and Execution 307k17 Extent of Power Granted 307k20 k. Sale, Exchange, or Mortgage. Most Cited  Cases A power given to executors to sell lands held by the testator in partnership with others does not authorize them to sell land held by the testator invididually. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an ejectment brought against Taylor and al. in the circuit court, by Hite, to recover the possession of a tract of land, the title whereof he asserts under a patent for 1,000 acres which issued to Isaac Hite, dec. A special verdict was found by the jury in that court; and the court supposing that from the facts found the plaintiff had failed to show any title to the land in contest, rendered judgment on the verdict in bar of his action. From the special verdict it appears that the plaintiff attempted to deduce title to the land through a deed of conveyance made by the executors named in the will of the patentee, Isaac Hite, dec.; but there is no fact found by the jury, from which any power in the executors, to sell and convey the land in contest can be inferred. The will empowers the executors to sell and convey and lands held by the testator in partnership with Abraham Hite, jun., Joseph Hite, and the representatives of Abraham Hite, dec.; but it nowhere appears from the special verdict that in point of fact the land in contest composes any part of the land so held in partnership. A power given to executors to sell lands held by the testator in partnership with others, does not authorize them to sell land held by the testator individually. Because, therefore, it does not appear that the executors possessed any power to convey the land in contest, the court below must have decreed correctly in rendering judgment against the plaintiff. The judgment must be affirmed. Hardin for plaintiffs in error. Ky.App. 1821. Hite v. Taylor 3 A.K.Marsh. 353, 10 Ky. 353, 1821 WL 1090 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
