(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 154,  8 Ky. 154 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1275 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Samuel T. Beall v. Thomas Siverts. Apr. 7, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Process 313 k 26 313 Process 313I Nature, Issuance, Requisites, and Validity 313k26 k. Designation of Court and Term. Most Cited Cases A notice omitting to designate the circuit court at which the defendant is to appear is defective. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The notice attached to the declaration in ejectment filed in this cause, advising the tenant Siverts, to "appear on the first day of the next term of the circuit court, &c." is clearly defective in not naming the circuit court at which appearance should be made. Notice in ejectment omitting to designate the circuit court at which defendant is to appear, is defective, and must be quashed. As the declaration and notice in ejectment, answer the place of process to coerce an appearance, it is obvious, the notice should, with all the certainty and precision of an original writ, inform the tenant at what court to appear. Such notice is in the nature of process to coerce the defendant's appearance, and must contain the certainty of an original writ, though no set form of words is necessary. We must not be understood as requiring the notice, by any set form of words, to name the court; but that if either by reference to the declaration, or in any other way, the proper information be given, it is all that should be required. In the present case, however, although the declaration sets forth a trespass and ejectment committed in Nelson county, yet as the notice in no wise refers to the declaration, as explanatory of the court to which the tenant was directed to appear, but contains a blank, where the court should have been named, upon no fair rule of interpretation can the declaration and notice be so construed as to afford proper information as to the court of appearance. Assuming, then, the notice to be defective, we can have no hesitation in according with the court below in quashing the proceedings. Had the objection been taken to the sufficiency of the service of the declaration and notice only, there would have been some plausibility in the idea suggested in argument, requiring a rule to be given the tenant, to shew cause why the service should not be held good; but as the defect exists not in the service, but in the notice, it must be considered in the nature of a defective writ, and consequently furnishes just cause for the court, ex officio, to quash the proceedings. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. B. Hardin for appellant, Wickliffe for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Beall v. Siverts 1 A.K.Marsh. 154, 8 Ky. 154, 1818 WL 1275 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
