(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 441,  8 Ky. 441 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1026 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lewis Wells v. John Caldwell. Apr. 12, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Jury 230 k 16(1) 230 Jury 230II Right to Trial by Jury 230k16 Particular Proceedings in Civil Actions 230k16(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 230k16(7)) A statute authorizing the court to punish a sheriff for neglect of duty without the intervention of a jury is not in contravention of the constitution requiring "the ancient mode of trial by jury to be held sacred, and the right thereto to remain inviolate." Jury 230 k 19(1) 230 Jury 230II Right to Trial by Jury 230k19 Civil Proceedings Other Than Actions;  Special Proceedings 230k19(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 230k19(16)) The statute authorizing a judgment against the sureties of a sheriff without a jury is constitutional. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 7 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353I Appointment, Qualification, and Tenure 353I(A) Sheriffs 353k7 k. Title to and Possession of Office. Most Cited  Cases Where a sheriff has acted as such, he is estopped to deny his official character. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment rendered against Wells as sheriff of Hardin county, upon a motion made by Caldwell, under the act of February, 1811, for a failure in returning an execution according to the requisitions of that act. On the trial of the motion, Caldwell introduced a witness for the purpose of proving that Robert Miller, to whom the execution appears to have been delivered, was the deputy of Wells, but the counsel of Wells supposing that parol evidence was inadmissible for that purpose, objected to the evidence; but the objection was overruled, and the witness examined. Whether therefore, the court erred in admitting the evidence, is the first question presented for the decision of this court. As, according to the law of this country, a record should be made of the appointment and qualification of both a principal and deputy sheriff, before either is authorized to perform duties of the office there is no doubt but that in a trial involving the fact, neither the principal nor a deputy would be permitted to show by the introduction of parol evidence their appointment to office. A sheriff and his deputy can prove themselves to be so, by record testimony alone, but if they have acted in that capacity they will be estopped to deny their official character, and a stranger may prove their actings by parol. As by common-law, courts could punish sheriffs for not obeying the mandates of their process without a jury, so the court of Jan., 1811 (session acts of 1810, page 142), does not (in punishing a sheriff for failing to pay execution money by the authority of the court alone) infringe the trial by jury. *2 But as by assuming the character and acting in that capacity they would be estopped to deny their appointment, we apprehend it is equally clear, that any other person may show their liability by the introduction of parol evidence of their having acted in the capacity of a sheriff. The court therefore properly permitted Caldwell to prove by parol evidence that Miller was the deputy of Wells. Assuming, therefore, that the evidence was admissible, it results, that as the execution is shown to have been regularly delivered to Miller, the deputy, and not returned according to the provisions of the act under which the motion was made, the court decided correctly in rendering judgment against Wells, unless, as is contended, it were incompetent for the court to decide the case without the intervention of a jury. There was certainly no necessity for a jury, unless by that provision in the constitution requiring "the ancient mode of trial by jury to be held sacred, and the right thereof to remain inviolate," renders it indispensable. But as by the ancient principles of the common law, courts, for a neglect in the sheriff to return executions according to the mandate of the writs, might, without the intervention of a jury, determine the fact and punish the contempt: so we apprehend, since the passage of the act of 1811, it can be no violation of the ancient right of trial by jury; for the court to decide upon the facts of the case and render judgment according to the provisions of the act. The judgment must therefore be affirmed with cost. Wickliffe for appellant, B. Hardin for appellee. Ky.App. 1819. Wells v. Caldwell 1 A.K.Marsh. 441, 8 Ky. 441, 1819 WL 1026 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
