(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 286,  19 Ky. 286 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1296 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Owings & Davis v. Iles. Oct. 7, 1826. *1 Evidence. Onus Probandi. Conveyances. Trustees of Towns. Statutes. ERROR TO THE BATH CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Deeds 120 k 193 120 Deeds 120V Evidence 120k191 Presumptions and Burden of Proof 120k193 k. Execution, Existence, and Identity. Most Cited  Cases A deed by the trustees of a town established under the general law, to pass title to the lots conveyed, must be executed by a majority, and the party offering the deed must show that fact. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Question stated. This case turns upon the correctness of the decision of the court below, in admitting as evidence to the jury, a deed introduced by Iles, and which purports to have been made by Thomas Triplett, Daniel Conner, Wm. Hope and Joshua Philips, as trustees of the town of Owingsville. The deed appears to be in due form, and to have been admitted to record in proper time, and was undoubtedly admissible evidence, if the persons by whom it was made possessed sufficient authority to convey the title to the lot in contest. But to possess such authority, it was necessary for Triplett, Conner, Hope and Philips, at the time of making the deed, not only to be trustees of the town, but to form a majority of the persons who were then trustees; for, by the general law upon the subject of towns, and under which the town of Owingsville was established, after the town was established and its trustees appointed, the title of the lots became vested in the trustees, and less than a majority of the trustees are not authorized to convey the title. Judging, however, from the facts before the court, upon the application to exclude the deed from the jury, it is apparent that it was made by less than a majority of the trustees. The county court appear to have made several orders upon the subject of trustees for the town, and by adverting to them, it will be seen, that there were nine persons who had been, before the date of the deed, appointed trustees, neither of whom is proved to have died, resigned, or in any way been removed, so that less than five were incompetent to convey the title of the lot. For a deed of conveyance by the trustees of a town, established under the general law, to pass the title to the lots, it must be executed by a majority, and the party offering the conveyance, must shew it. The deed ought, therefore, to have been excluded from going in evidence to the jury, and consequently, the judgment must be reversed, with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiff; Mayes, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Owings v. Iles 3 T.B.Mon. 286, 19 Ky. 286, 1826 WL 1296 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
