(Cite as: 4 Bibb 521,  7 Ky. 521 (Ky.),  1816 WL 1503 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Johnson, etc. v. Fowler. Dec. 9, 1816. *1 A power of attorney proved and admitted to record in Virginia, and attested by a clerk without the certificate of the judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate, is inadmissible evidence in this State, unless its execution is proved. The execution may be proved by one of the subscribing witnesses. To read a deposition taken de bene esse, proof of the absence of the witness from the State, or his inability to attend should be made--Vol. 3, 204. A commission is unnecessary to authorize a justice to take depositions. The deposition or notice need not recite that the deposition is taken de bene esse. West Headnotes Acknowledgment 12 k 39 12 Acknowledgment 12II Taking and Certificate 12k39 k. Further certificate of authenticity and conformity to law. Most Cited Cases A power of attorney, acknowledged before a mayor in Virginia, is not sufficiently authenticated to be admissible in evidence. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 68 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak68 k. Notice of taking. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k56(1)  Depositions) A notice to take depositions de bene esse need not state they are to be taken de bene esse. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 74 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak74 k. Making and requisites of deposition, return  or certificate. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 122k75  Depositions) A deposition taken de bene esse need not recite that it is taken de bene esse. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 77 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak76 Admissibility in Evidence 307Ak77 k. Continued existence of grounds for  taking; unavailability of witness. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 122k90  Depositions) To read a deposition taken de bene esse, proof of the absence of the witness from the state or of his inability to attend should be made. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. IN the consideration of this cause we shall only inquire whether the Court below decided correctly in permitting to be used as evidence a power of attorney introduced by Fowler, who was plaintiff in that Court? The power appears to have been executed in the State of Virginia; and whether it be considered in relation either to the laws of congress or this country, we are equally clear it should not have been used. Upon proof being made in the County Court of Powhatan, in the State of Virginia, of the execution of the power, it was admitted to record; but as the attestation of the clerk of the Court is not certified, either by the judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate, to be in due form, the authentication does not conform to the act of congress of 1790; and it is perfectly clear the act of 1804 does not embrace the case. When the power was given, the act of the legislature of this country of 1798 (2 Litt. 76), concerning the authentication of foreign writings, had not passed; but as that act was taken from the laws of Virginia in force at the separation, it is proper we should inquire whether the authentication conforms to its provisions? *2 By that act it is provided, that all policies of insurance, charter parties, powers of attorney, foreign judgments, specialities on record, registers of births or marriages, as have been, or shall be made, executed, entered into, given, inregistered in due form according to the laws of any State, kingdom, nation, province, island, or colony, and attested by a notary public, with a testimonial from the proper officer of the city, county, corporation, or borough where such notary public shall reside, or the great seal of the State, kingdom, province, island, colony, or place beyond sea, shall be evidence in all the Courts of Record within this Commonwealth, as if the same had been proven in said Courts. According to the clear and obvious meaning of this act, the power of attorney, to have been legitimate evidence, without other proof of its execution, should have been attested by a notary public, together with either a testimonial such as the act requires, or the great seal of the State, etc., as directed by the act. The power in question, as it does not, however, either conform to the requisitions of this act or that of congress, ought not to have been used as evidence; and for that cause the judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below and a new trial directed. A petition for a rehearing was presented, and the following opinion delivered: Upon the supposition that the Court below erred in admitting as evidence the power of attorney introduced by Fowler, this Court at a former term delivered an opinion reversing the judgment of that Court. April 22, 1817. The opinion then given was predicated upon the supposition that no other evidence than the authentication of the power was introduced to prove its execution; but upon further examination it is perceived that the execution was proven by the deposition of one of the subscribing witnesses; and hence it now becomes necessary to examine the objections taken in the Court below to the using of that deposition as evidence. The objections are, 1. That no commission to take the deposition de bene esse had been previously awarded; and 2. That neither the notice nor the deposition show it to have been taken de bene esse. Although the witness may in fact be a resident of another country, yet as he appears to have been in this State when his deposition was taken, that deposition ought not, so long as he remained within the limits of this country, to be used as evidence. Hence before the deposition could have been regularly admitted, the absence of the witness from the State ought to have been proven; but as the exceptions contain no suggestion of the failure of such proof, we cannot infer it was not made. With respect to the objections taken to the deposition, they cannot prevail. By the act of 1812  (4 Litt. 337) no commission was necessary to authorize the justice to take the deposition. And although proof of the witness' absence ought to be made before the deposition could be used, it is not necessary that either the notice or deposition should recite the contingencies upon which it was to be used. *3 As, therefore, the execution of the power was proven by competent evidence on the trial, the decision of this Court formerly given, reversing the judgment of the Court below, must be set aside, and the judgment of that Court affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Johnson v. Fowler 4 Bibb 521, 7 Ky. 521, 1816 WL 1503 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
