(Cite as: 4 Bibb 493,  7 Ky. 493 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1064 (Ky.)) Yel Flg Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kelso v. Frye. Apr. 11, 1817. *1 Debt on a note which was given for a clock, a bond warranting the clock, and a promise that if the clock should not prove good that they would either make it good or replace a good one before the money should be paid, is not admissible to impeach the validity of the note. For a breach of its stipulations it forms the basis of a separate action. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 428 343 Sales 343VIII Remedies of Buyer 343VIII(D) Actions and Counterclaims for Breach of Warranty 343k428 k. Right to Defend, Recoup, Set-Off, or Counterclaim  in Action for Price. Most Cited Cases In an action of debt on a note given for a clock, a bond, warranting the clock, and containing a promise that, if the clock should not prove good, the vendor would either make it good or replace a good one before the money should be paid, is not admissible to impeach the validity of the note. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. KELSO, the assignee of Dunham, Grove & Co., brought this suit for the purpose of recovering of Frye the amount of a note given by him to the company; and the only question we shall notice is, whether the Court erred in permitting the evidence introduced by Frye for the purpose of impeaching the validity of the note? The note appears to have been given to the company for the price of a clock sold to Frye, and the evidence objected to is a writing under the hands of the company, of the same date of the note, warranting the clock, and containing a promise that if the clock should not prove good, that they would either make it good, or replace a good one, before the money should be paid. This writing, we are of opinion, was inadmissible for the purpose it was introduced. For a breach of its stipulations it might form the basis of an action against the company; but it contains nothing in any manner conducing to show an insufficient or vitious consideration of the note. The sale of the clock, and not a performance of the stipulations contained in the writing, was the consideration of the note; and as the writing is a distinct instrument from the note, although it contains a promise to furnish a good clock before a payment of the note, a performance of that stipulation cannot be construed a condition precedent to the payment of the money. The writing, therefore, ought not to have been admitted in evidence; and for that cause the judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1817. Kelso v. Frye 4 Bibb 493, 7 Ky. 493, 1817 WL 1064 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
