(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 296,  22 Ky. 296 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1681 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wickliffe and Wife v. Sanders. Dec. 11, 1827. *1 Action. Case. Trespass. Trover. Pleading. Verdicts. Jeofails. Amendments. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 464 161 Execution 161XVI Wrongful Execution 161k463 Actions 161k464 k. Nature and Form. Most Cited  Cases An action against the creditor in execution, for causing an execution against another person to be levied on plaintiff's goods, is trespass, and not case. Pleading 302 k 433(4) 302 Pleading 302XIX Aider by Verdict or Judgment 302k433 Defects in or Want of Declaration, Complaint, Petition, or Statement 302k433(4) k. Technical or Formal Defects. Most Cited  Cases Error in bringing case where trespass is the only proper action is not cured by a verdict under the statute of jeofails. Trespass 386 k 69 386 Trespass 386II Actions 386II(E) Trial 386k69 k. Verdict and Findings. Most Cited  Cases A verdict in general terms, on a count alleging a wrongful taking of the plaintiff's goods, not saying with force, and selling them, etc., is bad. Action 13 k 30 13 Action 13II Nature and Form 13k29 Forms of Action at Common Law 13k30 k. Distinctions as to Form. Most Cited  Cases Action on the Case 14 k 1 14 Action on the Case 14k1 k. Nature and Grounds of Action. Most Cited Cases The action for causing an execution against another to be levied on plaintiff's property is trespass, rather than case. Action 13 k 37 13 Action 13II Nature and Form 13k37 k. Error as to Character or Form. Most Cited Cases Where the plaintiff denominates his action case, and the averments in the declaration show a trespass, even after verdict, judgment will be arrested. Action 13 k 41 13 Action 13III Joinder, Splitting, Consolidation, and Severance 13k39 Joinder of Causes of Action at Common Law 13k41 k. Forms of Action. Most Cited  Cases Counts ex delicto cannot be joined in the same declaration with counts ex contractu. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This writ of error was sued out in the name of Mary O. Russell, before she was married to Wickliffe, to reverse a judgment recovered against her in an action of trespass, on the case brought in the circuit court by Sanders. Declaration in case. The declaration is as follows: *2 Fayette county, Sct. Samuel Sanders, by his attorney, complains of Mary O. Russell, in custody, & c., of a plea of trespass on the case, for that, whereas the said defendant, on the ____ day of ______, at the circuit aforesaid, caused her certain writ of execution, commonly called a fieri facias, to be issued from the office of the Fayette Circuit court, directed to the sheriff of Fayette, by which he was commanded, that of the estate of Lewis Sanders, he should cause to be made the sum of $____ with interest at the rate of six per centum per annum from the ____ day of ____, until paid, and also her cost expended in the prosecution of her suit, and whereas, afterwards, to-wit, on the day of ______, at the circuit aforesaid, the said defendant, caused her said execution to be delivered to George W. Morton, deputy sheriff for ______ sheriff of Fayette county, and caused the same to be levied upon divers goods and chattels of the said plaintiff, then and there being, to-wit, fifty milch cows and calves, being of great value, to-wit, of the value of $5,000; fifty bullocks of great value, to-wit, of the value of $5,000; fifty heifers and steers of the value of $5,000; fifty head of horses, of the value of $5,000; divers pieces of household and kitchen furniture, consisting of beds, carpets, chairs, tables, table cloths, china ware, pots, kettles, &c., then and there being, of the value of $2,000; also farming utensils, to-wit, ploughs, harrows, &c., of the value of $1,000, and thereupon, afterwards, to-wit, on the day of ______, at the circuit aforesaid, the said goods and chattels of the said plaintiff, were, by the order of the said defendant, and in colour of said execution, sold by the said Morton, as deputy sheriff, as aforesaid, so that the same was wholly lost to the said plaintiff, and he deprived of the use, enjoyment, advantage and value thereof, to his great damage, to-wit, $5,000, and therefore he sues. Not guilty, was pleaded by the then Mrs. Russell; and on the trial of that issue, three hundred dollars damages were found against her by the jury, for which sum, the judgment, to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted, was rendered in favor of Sanders. Plea, not guilty, Plea, not guilty, verdict, and judgment for plaintiff. After the jury had found their verdict, a motion was made on the part of the defendant, Mrs. Russell, in the circuit court, to arrest the judgment; but the motion was overruled, and it is now assigned for error, that the court erred in not arresting the judgment. Motion in arrest and judgment overruled. The ground relied on in that court, to arrest the judgment, is, that the action was misconceived. It was contended, that to recover for the injury charged in the declaration, trespass, and not case, is the proper action; and that by adopting the latter action, Sanders was not entitled to a judgment in his favor, for the damages assessed by the jury. Objected that the action ought to have been trespass and not case. *3 Whether we advert to those general rules, by which the action of trespass and case are characterized and distinguished, or to adjudged cases, it will be found, that to recover damages for the taking of the goods and chattels of Sanders, as charged in the declaration, an action of trespass is the appropriate action, and that case can not be maintained. By the act of taking the goods, force is not only necessarily implied, but an immediate injury, was thereby done to Sanders, and it is a general rule, that for immediate injuries, committed with force, whether the force be actual or constructive, trespass is the proper action. Hence it has been held, that trespass should be brought to recover for injuries committed by the misapplication of the process of a court; as where A, or his goods, are taken upon process against B, 3 Wilson R. 309; 2 Blac. R. 832; 1 Bulstr. 149; 1 Chitty plea., 185. Nor is it material, whether the action be against the officer who misapplies the process, provided the officer, in taking the goods, act under the command of the plaintiff. By commanding goods to be taken by the officer, the plaintiff becomes principal in the act, and equally liable with the officer to all the consequences. In trespass there is no accessary; all who aid or assist in doing, or causing the act to be done, are principals in the act, and liable to the same action. It follows, therefore, that for taking the goods, which are charged in the declaration to have been caused to be taken by Mrs. Russell, she is not only liable to the action of Sanders, but to recover for the injury done by the act of taking trespass, and case should have been brought by him. Rules for the action of trespass or case stated. But admitting that for the taking, trespass might be maintained, it was contended in argument, that it was competent for Sanders to waive the tort, and bring case for the conversion of the property, and it was argued that the declaration, though not in form a declaration in trover, contains every thing necessary to show a right in Sanders to recover in trover, and that in substance, it should be so considered and treated. Action against the plaintiff in execution, for causing an execution against another person to be levied on the plaintiff's goods, is trespass not case. It is undoubtedly true, in the general, that whenever trespass will lie for the taking of goods of the plaintiff wrongfully, trover may also be maintained; but when this is conceded, and were we also to concede that the case of Sanders comes within the general rule, which allows either trespass or trover, to be maintained for the taking of the goods, charged in the declaration, still there is an objection to the verdict and judgment not to be gotten over. Trover may be maintained wherever trespass lies. The verdict being general, must be understood to include damages for the act of taking, charged in the declaration; so that if the verdict and judgment is permitted to stand, Sanders recovers damages for an act, for which, according to the settled doctrines of the law, no damages are recoverable, in an action of trover; the trespass being always waived in such an action. In the case of Cooper v. Chitty, 1 Burrow, 31, the action of trover is thus defined by Lord Mansfield: In form, (says he) it is a fiction; in substance, it is a remedy to recover the value of personal chattels wrongfully converted by another to his own use; the form supposes that the defendant might have come lawfully by it, and if he did not, yet by bringing this action, the plaintiff waives the trespass; no damages are recoverable for the act of taking; all must be for the act of converting. This is the tort, or maleficium, and to entitle the plaintiff to recover, two things are necessary, first, property in the plaintiff. Secondly, a wrongful conversion by the defendant." *4 Verdict in general terms on a count alleging a wrongful taking the plaintiff's goods, not saying with force, and selling them, whereby they were lost to plaintiff, not good, because damages for the wrongful taking are assessed, and the malefacium, was in the conversion only. The objection, that damages are given by the verdict for the act of taking of the goods charged in the declaration, has no answer in the fact that the taking is not charged to have been committed with force. Though force in the taking, is not expressly charged, it is from the allegation in the declaration necessarily implied; and we are as much bound to infer, that damages were given by the jury, for the trespass committed in taking the goods, as if the force in taking had been expressly charged in the declaration. The jury has, therefore, by their verdict, given damages not recoverable in an action of trover, and which are recoverable only in an action of trespass vi et armis; so that in any point of view that the case is considered, the judgment is equally erroneous, and should have been arrested. Force in the taking, though not alleged is necessarily implied in the averments, damages were, therefore, assessed by the jury, for the force, and the judgment may be arrested. It might be otherwise, if the objections to which we have adverted, were obviated by any of the various statutes of jeofails. But none of those statutes have ever been held, nor do we think that any of them should be held, to cure an error in bringing case, where trespass is the proper action, or an error in the jury, giving damages in an action on the case, for an act for which no damages are recoverable in such an action. Statute of jeofail does not cure the error, in bringing case where trespass is the action. The judgment must therefore be reversed, with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, with permission for Sanders to amend his declaration, should he desire to do so; but if he should not so amend his declaration, as to charge a cause of action in case only, and not trespass, his action must be dismissed with cost. Mandate for plaintiff to have leave to amend his declaration. Wickliffe, for plaintiffs; Haggin and Loughborough, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Wickliffe v. Sanders 6 T.B.Mon. 296, 22 Ky. 296, 1827 WL 1681 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
