(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 270,  21 Ky. 270 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1549 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Roberts, &c. v. Smiley. Jun. 28, 1827. *1 Evidence. Notice. Judgments. Slaves. ERROR TO THE NELSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 709 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k706 Persons Not Parties or Privies 228k709 k. Judgment as Evidence of Its Own Existence.  Most Cited Cases Judgment for a negro, in an action to establish his freedom, is evidence, in an action by a remote vendor against his immediate vendor, on the bill of his sale, and proves the recovery. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. Smiley sold to Roberts & Co. a negro boy named John, and on the 28th day of February, 1816, executed to them a bill of sale, in which he covenanted to warrant and defend the boy against the claims of all and every person whatsoever. The boy was afterwards carried by Roberts & Co. to the State of Louisiana, and there sold; and in a suit brought by him in that State, to recover his freedom, the boy was adjudged by the court to be free. Whilst that suit was pending, the purchasers from Roberts & Co. informed them thereof, and they thereupon gave notice to Smiley, and requested him to attend to the procuring evidence to prove the boy a slave. After the boy had succeeded in recovering his freedom, Roberts & Co. brought an action of covenant against Smiley, upon the bill of sale. Action of covenant on the bill of sale of a slave, on the ground that he had recovered his freedom. At the trial of that action, the record of the proceedings and judgment in the suit brought by the boy in Louisiana, was read in evidence, and testimony was also introduced, going to prove of that suit, by Roberts & Co. Whereupon the court instructed the jury, that the record was evidence that the boy John, had recovered his freedom; but that it was neither prima facie nor conclusive evidence, that the boy was entitled to his freedom. Record of the action against the remote alienee, wherein the slave established his freedom, given in evidence, in an action against vendor on his bill of sale. It is not contended by either party to this contest, but what the record of the suit brought by the boy, in Louisiana, is evidence of the fact, that the boy had recovered his freedom, but it is insisted on the part of Roberts & Co., that the court erred in deciding that the record was not also evidence that the boy was entitled to the freedom, which, by the judgment in that suit, he recovered. The judgment is not doubt conclusive between the boy and all those who were parties thereto, and as between them, or others claiming under them, would unquestionably be conclusive evidence of the right therein decided in any subsequent contest, involving the same matter. But Smiley was no party to the suit in which that judgment was rendered, nor does he claim through or under any one who was party. It is true, he sold the boy to Roberts & Co. under whom one of the parties to that suit, claimed the boy as a slave, and it is also true, that after that suit was commenced, notice thereof, is proved to have been given to Smiley by Roberts & Co. but his having had notice of the pendency of the suit, can not with strict propriety be said to have made him either party or privy, so as to give the judgment conclusive force against him. After having had notice of the suit which was brought to try the right of freedom of the boy, which he sold as a slave, prudential considerations should have induced Smiley to have used all the means within his power to support, in the trial of that case, the right which by his sale, he asserted to the service of the boy, and after failing to do so, public policy and the genius and spirit of the law, demands that the decision against his right, should be evidence to some extent against him. The utmost weight that should, however, be given to the judgment, as evidence against him, in a contest between him and his vendees, is to throw the burthen upon him, to prove that the boy was in fact a slave when he sold him. It has been decided by some of the American courts, that after notice to the vendor of a chattel, of a suit, brought against the vendee by a stranger, to recover it, the judgment in favor of the stranger is conclusive against the vendor in an action brought by his evidence upon his warranty of title. That decision does not, however, command our assent. Such a principle if carried out, would in many cases, produce results highly unjust and reproachful to the administration of the law. Take for example, a case of the sale of a negro. When sold, the negro may be a slave, and afterwards emancipated by the vendee; the purchaser may nevertheless, hold the negro in bondage until suit is brought by him for his freedom, and notice of that suit may be given to the vendor; a recovery may be had by the negro of his freedom, and an action brought by the vendee against his vendor upon his warranty of title; and if the principle supposed be correct, the judgment in favor of the negro is conclusive as to his right of freedom, and the vendee thereby enabled to recover upon the warranty, though in truth, there is no breach of the vendor's warranty, and though in point of fact, the negro was a slave at the time he was sold. A principle so unjust in its practical result, can not be admitted to be correct. Equal justice between man and man would more likely be attained, by yielding to such a judgment no greater force than to allow it, to cast upon the vendor the burthen of proving the right of property to have been in him at the time he made sale thereof. *2 Judgment for the negro, in an action to establish his freedom, is evidence in an action by a remote vendor against his immediate vendor on the bill of his sale, and proves the recovery. Notice having been given of the pendency of the action for the freedom, the judgment is prima facie evidence against the vendor, that the negro was free. The court below was consequently correct in instructing the jury, that the record was not conclusive evidence of the right of the boy to his freedom; but the court erred in further instructing the jury, that the record was not prima facie evidence of the boy being entitled to his freedom. The judgment, must therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had not inconsistent with this opinion. Wickliffe, for plaintiffs; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Roberts v. Smiley 5 T.B.Mon. 270, 21 Ky. 270, 1827 WL 1549 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
