(Cite as: 4 Bibb 413,  7 Ky. 413 (Ky.),  1816 WL 799 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Connel's administrators v. Ficklin, etc. Oct. 14, 1816. *1 That one of the defendants in an action of covenant, to whom the defense of the suit was confided, was sick, whereby he could not possibly attend the trial with any degree of composure; that if he had been present they could have shown payment of the whole, or nearly the whole demand, is no cause for a Court of Equity to decree a new trial. The chancellor has the power to award new trials at law in certain cases, but it should be exercised cautiously. Setoff of the whole demand must be pleaded at law, a partial setoff is cause for applying to a Court of Equity. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 436 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k431 Excuses for Failure to Interpose Defenses 228k436 k. Negligence of Party. Most Cited  Cases A bill seeking relief from a judgment at law, on the ground that A., to whom the management of the case was committed, could not attend at the trial with any degree of composure, was dismissed. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. To be relieved from a judgment obtained in an action of covenant brought by Ficklin against the plaintiffs in error, they exhibited their bill in equity, alleging that neither of them were present when the judgment was had against them: that if they had been at the trial, they could have shown the payment of the whole, or nearly the whole demand; and as an apology for failing to attend the trial, they moreover allege that the plaintiff, Scott, to whom the management of the suit was confided, some few days before the judgment was obtained, owing to an "imposthume or bile," was thrown into fevers, whereby, he could not possibly attend the trial with any degree of composure; and after charging an assignment of the judgment by Ficklin to the other defendants, ask for appropriate relief. To this bill the defendants demurred, and upon argument the Court being of opinion the plaintiffs had not shown any just cause for going into a Court of Equity, sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill with costs. Considering the bill as an application to a Court of Equity for the purpose of obtaining a new trial of the issues at law, we have no doubt but what the Court below properly sustained the demurrer: for although the chancellor, for the attainment of justice, will, under perticular circumstances, interpose by granting a new trial, that power should at all times be cautiously assumed, and in no instance exercised, unless the applicant, from inevitable necessity or causes not within his control, has been prevented from pursuing his remedy in the ordinary and legitimate mode of an application for a new trial to the Court at Law. Such we however suppose is not alleged to be the case in the present instance: for the allegation in the bill, that the plaintiff Scott could not attend with any degree of composure, and upon which a new trial is demanded, so far from showing that the plaintiffs could not have availed themselves of their remedy at law, strongly implies that Scott, although not with perfect convenience, might have attended the trial at law. And beside, from anything alleged in the bill, Scott, after the judgment, might with perfect composure have attended the Court, and during the term applied for a new trial. *2 As a bill seeking relief on account of the payments alleged to have been made to Ficklin, we are also of opinion it cannot be sustained. If the whole demand was not paid, it will be admited that upon the principles which govern Courts of Equity in relation to setoffs, the plaintiff did right in exhibiting his bill for the purpose of obtaining a discount. But in doing so it was certainly essential that by some allegation it should be made to appear but a part, and not the whole of the demand had been paid: for if full payment was made, as it furnished purely matter for a legal bar, it should have been pleaded to the action at law; and a failure to do so cannot give a right to go into equity. Because, therefore, it is not shown that but part of the demand was paid, the plaintiffs have failed to show any necessity for applying to a Court of Equity, and as such the Court below properly sustained the demurrer. Decree affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. McConnel's Adm'rs v. Ficklin 4 Bibb 413, 7 Ky. 413, 1816 WL 799 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
