(Cite as: 4 Bibb 246,  7 Ky. 246 (Ky.),  1815 WL 750 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Patrick v. Clay. Nov. 10, 1815. *1 Note payable on demand, interest does not run until demand made. Suit is demand, but interest before suit cannot be given without a jury to find the fact of a previous demand--2 vol. 471. Verdict for the debt with interest thereon from a certain time, etc., does not amount to a finding of the fact. Jury may ascertain the amount of interest due at that time, and find it in damages, but not for interest that might thereafter accrue. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 125 56 Bills and Notes 56II Construction and Operation 56k125 k. Interest. Most Cited Cases Interest 219 k 47(1) 219 Interest 219III Time and Computation 219k47 Commencement of Action 219k47(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where a note is payable on demand, without specifying that it is on interest, interest does not commence running until the commencement of the suit, unless a previous demand is proved;  and a verdict for the debt, with interest from a certain time, does not amount to a finding of the fact of a demand at that time. Interest 219 k 47(1) 219 Interest 219III Time and Computation 219k47 Commencement of Action 219k47(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where interest runs from the date of demand, and no demand has been made, interest will be allowed from the date of commencement of suit. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. CLAY brought this action in the Court below upon a promissory note given by Patrick, for the payment of a certain sum of money on demand. Patrick having failed to defend the action, judgment by nihil dicit was taken against him, and upon the execution of a writ of inquiry awarded for that purpose, the jury found for Clay "the debt in the declaration mentioned, with interest thereon, at the rate of six per centum per annum, from the 17th day of June, 1811, until paid, and one penny in damages; whereupon judgment was entered against Patrick for the debt, together with the interest and damages assessed by the jury. In whatever point of view this case may be considered, the judgment cannot be sustained. If it be considered without regard to the verdict, the judgment is most clearly erroneous; for as the note was payable on demand, according to the doctrine of the English law, as recognized by this Court, interest could not commence running until a demand made. Without the intervention of a jury, therefore, ascertaining a demand to have been made at the time from whence interest by the judgment is given, the Court could not regularly make the interest commence from that period. Were the writ of that date, then as the suing out of the writ would of itself be a sufficient demand, the intervention of a jury to ascertain the fact of a demand would be unnecessary; but as that appears not to be the case in the present instance, it is clear, abstracted from every consideration in relation to the verdict, the judgment cannot be supported. Nor do we suppose the verdict found by the jury in this case sufficient for that purpose. As a general verdict it certainly is not; for although the jury might regularly ascertain the amount of interest to which Clay was entitled, and return a general verdict therefor in damages, yet as their inquiry in such a case should be confined to the ascertainment of damages which had accrued at the time of making the inquiry, a finding of interest which might thereafter accrue, by way of damages, as it would exceed the authority of the jury, could not justify the Court in entering judgment. As a special verdict, we are also of opinion it does not support the judgment. Had the fact of a demand been directly and certainly found, then as a matter of law resulting from the fact, judgment for interest from the time of making the demand might have been regularly given; but as the fact has not been found, it would be a violation of the best settled rules of law, for the Court to supply the omission by inferring the existence of the fact. *2 The judgment must therefore be reversed; the cause remanded to the Court below, and the plaintiff there have leave either to take a judgment for his debt with interest from the date of his writ, or to have his writ of inquiry executed according to the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Patrick v. Clay 4 Bibb 246, 7 Ky. 246, 1815 WL 750 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
