(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 234,  19 Ky. 234 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1280 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Anderson v. Waller. May 30, 1826. *1 Contract. Demand. Anegation and Proof. Variance. ERROR TO THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT; BENJ. SHACKELFORD, JUDGE. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 346(10) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k346 Issues, Proof, and Variance 95k346(10) k. Variance as to Date and Terms of Contract  in General. Most Cited Cases An allegation to pay a horse on demand and proof to pay a horse, without more, are not variant in legal effect. Contracts 95 k 346(10) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k346 Issues, Proof, and Variance 95k346(10) k. Variance as to Date and Terms of Contract  in General. Most Cited Cases An allegation that defendant promised to pay plaintiff a horse, on the consideration that he was indebted to him for one-half the price of their horse, by consent sold by defendant, and proof that defendant, having sold the horse, but not having collected the price, promised for plaintiff's part of the demand to pay, are variant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement. This was an action of assumpsit, brought by William S. Waller against Anderson, in the Christian circuit court. The trial was had upon the general issue, and verdict and judgment recovered by Waller. The main question presented for our notice grows out of exceptions taken to the circuit court's refusal to instruct the jury to find as in case of a non-suit. The motion which was made by Anderson for the instructions, was predicated upon the supposed insufficiency of the evidence introduced by Waller on the trial, to sustain his action; and before we advert to that evidence, it is proper that we should take a brief notice of the cause of action contained in his declaration. Motion for non suit overruled and exceptions. The declaration contains two counts. The first is indebitatus assumpsit, for one hundred and fifty dollars, received by Anderson to the use of Waller. First count. The second count in substance states that, whereas the defendant, Anderson, on the _____ day of _______ &c. in the county, &c. was indebted to the said William S. Waller, in the further sum of one hundred and twenty-five dollars, being one moiety of a large sum, to-wit, of the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, arising and accruing from the sale of a stallion, which he, the said William, together with the said Anderson, owned in partnership, and which he, the said Anderson, by the authority and permission of the said Williams, sold as aforesaid, and being so indebted, he the said Anderson, in consideration thereof, afterwards, to-wit, on the _____ day of _______ in the county, &c. undertook, and faithfully promised to pay the said William, one horse worth one hundred dollars, when he, the said Anderson, should be thereunto afterwards requested. &c. &c. *2 Special count. The declaration moreover, alleges a special demand of the horse at the usual place of Anderson's residence, and concludes by alleging breaches of the promise, stated in the usual and appropriate form. Facts the evidence conduced to prove. The facts which the evidence introduced by Waller conduced to prove, may be assumed to be, in substance the following: Anderson was possessed of a horse which belonged to him and Waller jointly, and in pursuance to the permission and directions of Waller, the horse was sold by Anderson for two hundred and fifty dollars, and a note taken from the purchaser for the sale money. After the sale, the horse proved to be unsound, and the purchaser refused to make payment Anderson then requested a friend to inform Waller that he would give him a horse worth one hundred dollars, instead of half the sale money, and that he would run the risk of collecting the sale money from the purchaser. The information was accordingly communicated to Waller, and the friend was instructed by him to receive the horse. Upon receiving instructions from Waller, the friend made known to Anderson, Waller's willingness to accept a horse, and requested Anderson to permit men to value a horse, but Anderson refused then to have a horse valued, and agreed upon a day when the friend was to go early in the morning to his house, and receive a horse for Waller. Accordingly early in the morning of that day, the friend went to Anderson's, but he was not at home, and no person else was there authorized to deliver the horse. In argument it was not pretended that there could be a recovery upon the first count in the declaration; but it was contended that the evidence substantially supports the second count, and as such it was insisted the court was correct, in refusing to instruct the jury to find as in case of a non-suit. According, however, to any construction, which in our opinion can be fairly put upon the evidence, we can not admit that either count of the declaration is sustained. The first count most indisputably is not. To sustain that count evidence should have been introduced going to prove the receipt of money by Anderson to the use of Waller, and it is impossible to point out a solitary circumstance conducing in the slightest degree to such a result. Evidence held not to conduce to maintain the first count. Nor, when properly understood, will the evidence be found to agree with the allegations contained in the second count of the declaration. We would not be understood as intimating an opinion that the evidence introduced by Waller, proves no contract upon which an action can be sustained. The assent of both Waller and Anderson, was no doubt necessary to make the contract binding upon either; but whether expressed in person or by an authorized agent, the assent has the same binding force, and according to the plain import of the evidence, the proposition to pay a horse worth one hundred dollars, which was made by Anderson was accepted to by Waller, and through his friend and agent made known to Anderson. *3 Held that the evidence proved a valid contract. We must, therefore, concede the fact to be, that Anderson agreed to pay, and Waller to receive a horse, worth one hundred dollars, and in that respect there is no substantial variance between the proof introduced by Waller and the allegations contained in the second count of his declaration. It is true, that according to the count, Anderson is alleged to have agreed to pay the horse on demand, and there is no evidence of his having agreed to pay on demand. The evidence is that he would pay, without stating when and without mentioning any thing about a demand. But in legal contemplation, there is no substantial difference between the agreement to pay, as stated in the count, and as proved. Though the agreement may have been general to pay, without mentioning that it should be done on demand, there would exist the same necessity to prove a demand, as if the agreement had been expressly to pay on demand; so that as respects the demand there can not be any substantial variance between the proof and the count. Allegation to pay a horse on demand, and proof to pay a horse without more saying, are not variant in legal effect. But there is an essential and palpable variance between the consideration upon which the agreement of Anderson, is alleged in the count to have been made, and that proved. The only inducement which Anderson could have had to make the promise was to obtain the interest of Waller in the moiety of the claim upon the purchaser of the horse owned by them jointly, and by accepting the proposition of Anderson, Waller must have intended to give up his interest in that moiety. It is true the record contains no evidence going to shew that Waller expressly agreed to give up his moiety of the price for which the horse had been sold by Anderson, but from the facts proved, such we apprehend must have been the mutual understanding of both Waller and Anderson. The surrender of Waller's interest in the claim for the price of the horse, therefore, and not as is alleged in the second count of the declaration, Anderson's being indebted to him, the one moiety of that price must, according to the evidence have formed the consideration of Anderson's promise to pay a horse worth one hundred dollars. In truth, there is no evidence conducing in the slightest degree to prove that at the time of making the promise Anderson was indebted to Waller. It is in proof, that prior to that time Anderson sold the horse owned by him and Waller jointly, but the sale was made by the permission and directions of Waller, and instead of having received any part of the price, Anderson then held the note upon the purchaser for the amount for which the horse was sold, and the payment thereof had been refused by the purchaser. Allegation that defendant promised to pay plaintiff a horse on the consideration that he was indebted to plaintiff for half the price of their horse, by consent sold by defendant, and proof that defendant, having so sold the horse but not having collected the price, promised for plaintiff's part of the demand, to pay, &c., are variant. *4 The instructions for the jury to find as in case of a non-suit ought, therefore, to have been given by the court. The judgment must, consequently, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Mayes, for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Anderson v. Waller 3 T.B.Mon. 234, 19 Ky. 234, 1826 WL 1280 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
