(Cite as: 4 Bibb 476,  7 Ky. 476 (Ky.),  1816 WL 842 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gordon, etc. v. Woods' administrator. 1816. *1 Quere, whether a County Court, after granting a certificate of probate has the power at a subsequent term to revoke it? An executor may maintain suit on a bond given to himwithout making profert of the certificate of probate. An order of Court repealing letters of administration given to one person, gives no right to a subsequent administrator to sue on a bond given to the first. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 121(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k121 Administrators with Will Annexed 162k121(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases An order of the court repealing letters testamentary given to the executor, and granting administration with the will annexed to another, gives no right to the latter to sue on a bond given to the former. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE plaintiffs in error having executed an obligation binding themselves to pay unto Thomas Lewis, executor of Abraham Lewis, deceased, $1501, and having failed to discharge the same according to its stipulations, the defendant in error, as administrator of the estate of said Abraham Lewis, brought this action in the Court below for the purpose of collecting the amount of the obligation; and after setting forth in his declaration the execution of the obligation as aforesaid, alleged that the County Court by whom probate of the will was granted, at a subsequent term, repealed the letters of administration which had been granted to the said Thomas Lewis executor of the last will of Abraham Lewis, deceased, and then and there granted letters of administration with the will annexed to Archibald Woods, the present defendant, whereby he averred an action accrued to him as administrator, etc. To this declaration the plaintiffs in error, who were defendants in the Court below, filed a general demurrer and two special pleas in bar. The plaintiff in that Court joined the demurrer, and filed demurrers to the special pleas in bar, which being also joined by the present plaintiffs, that Court overruled the demurrer to the declaration, and sustained the demurrers to the pleas and gave judgment against the present plaintiffs for the amount of the obligation with interest and costs. In determining the present contest, our inquiries will be confined exclusively to the sufficiency of the declaration to maintain the action in the name of the present defendant, upon the obligation executed to the executor. As administration with the will annexed is alleged to have been granted to Woods, it is obvious the order of the County Court granting probate of the will must be supposed still to remain in full force, and that the charge in the declaration of the Court having repealed the letters of administration which had been previously granted to the executor, must be considered as an averment of a repeal to the order of the Court granting a certificate of probate to the executor. Thus considering the declaration, it cannot be material to a decision in the present case to inquire into the power of the Court, after granting a certificate of probate, at a subsequent term to revoke such an order: for if the power be admitted, according to no principle of law can the exercise of it have any operation in the present case. The authority of an executor is not derived from the order granting a certificate of probate, but from the will. He may perform many acts before probate: he may release debts, assent to legacies, and alienate the goods of his testator; and although as a general rule he cannot declare, yet he may commence suit before probate; and where goods are taken out of his possession, or sold by himself, as no profert of the letters testamentary are required in those cases, he may even maintain such suits before probate. See Com. Dig. 343, and the authorities there cited. *2 According to these authorities, therefore, were Lewis the executor to bring an action on the obligation upon which this suit is founded, as it appears to have been executed to him, he would not be required to make profert of the certificate of probate or letters testamentary; and consequently the order of the Court (if they had authority to make it) repealing the order granting a certificate of probate, could not in any wise affect such a suit: and if not, it inevitably results that by the order granting administration to Woods, no right of action can have been transferred to him. The judgment of the Court below must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and judgment entered in favor of the appellants upon the demurrer in the declaration. Ky.App. 1816. Gordon v. Wood's Adm'r 4 Bibb 476, 7 Ky. 476, 1816 WL 842 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
