(Cite as: 4 Bibb 183,  7 Ky. 183 (Ky.),  1815 WL 713 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robinson v. Gilbreth, etc. Oct. 6, 1815. *1 Equity has cognizance of fraud, and will sustain a bill to set aside a contract for fraud in the sale of a horse, and to enjoin a judgment recovered for the price-- Accord. Waters v. Mattingly, vol. 1, 244. But equity will not sustain a bill for injunction against the judgment, where the complainant affirms the contract and seeks to li??uidate the damages upon a warranty, or for fraud in the sale; unless otherwise an irreparable damage would be sustained by the complainant....Accord. Hardwick v. Forbes, vol. 1, 212. If a bill be brought for a discovery, and that is the only ground of the jurisdiction of a Court of Chancery; if the answer denies the matter of discovery sought, the bill ought not to be retained--Acc. Lemon v. Cherry, vol. 1, 252. Where the party attempts to defend the action at law and fails, equity will not re-try the matter--Acc?? Veech v. Pennebaker, vol. 2, 326. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 443(1) 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k440 Misconduct of Party or Counsel 228k443 Fraud 228k443(1) k. Procuring Judgment in General. Most  Cited Cases Under its jurisdiction of fraud, a court of equity will sustain a bill to set aside a contract for fraud in the sale of a horse and to enjoin a judgment for the price. Judgment 228 k 445 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k445 k. Questions Presented in Original Action. Most Cited  Cases A bill was brought to obtain relief from a judgment at law, on an obligation given in payment for a horse, on the ground of fraud. It appearing that the question of fraud had been tried in the court of law the decision was held conclusive in equity also. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. ROBINSON purchased from Gilbreth a horse, and gave his obligation in part pay for 25 pounds. Gilbreth assigned the obligation to Wilson, who brought suit thereon at law and recovered judgment. Robinson then to obtain relief exhibited his bill in chancery with injunction, and the cause having progressed to a final hearing, the bill was dismissed with costs. The grounds assumed by the bill for relief are somewhat ambiguously stated, and admit of some doubt whether a fraud was intended to be charged upon Gilbreth in the sale of the horse, or a warranty of soundness, unaccompanied with any other circumstances of fraud. Considering the cause in either point of view, we are however of opinion the bill cannot be maintained. If a naked warranty was only intended, then it is evident no relief can be given by a Court of Equity; for then as a breach of the warranty sounds properly in damages, and Courts of Law possess adequate power to give relief in such a case, equity should not interpose, unless under particular circumstances not within the control of Courts of Law, the aid of equity is made indispensable. If it be said that a discovery is sought by the bill in this case, and the equitable jurisdiction should be endeavored to be maintained on that ground, then it is answered no discovery is obtained, but the facts alleged are flatly denied by the answer of Gilbreth; and it is settled in such a case, where the jurisdiction is endeavored to be translated from a Court of Law to a Court of Equity, on the score of a discovery from the defendant, that equity will not after a denial of the discovery retain cognizance of the cause for the purpose of giving relief upon the proof made. Neither should equity take cognizance of the cause for the purpose of awarding an injunction and inquiry into the fact of a warranty, and ascertaining the extent of the damages consequent thereon; because the judgment may have been obtained at law for part of the price of the horse. For as the promise of Robinson to pay the price, and the promise of Gilbreth that the horse was sound, are each independent promises, for a breach of either an action at law is maintainable; and to such an action, the breach of the other would be an inadmissible defense. And as the contract of the parties has been made so as to give each a remedy at law for the breach on the part of the other, each should be left to their action at law, unless it is apparent by so doing irreparable injury would be sustained. Such a consequence, it does not, however, appear would result by making each of the present parties resort for relief to their action at law; for it is not even suggested that any difficulty would accrue in obtaining from Gilbreth the amount of any judgment which might be obtained against him in consequence of the warranty. *2 If relief is sought on the grounds of a fraud having been committed upon Robinson by Gilbreth in the sale of the horse, then it will not be denied but what equity, upon the making out of a proper case, should give relief. But even then it would be necessary for Robinson not only to prove the fraud, but he should also show from other circumstances that according to the rules of equity the contract should be canceled at his instance; for it is not in every case of fraud that equity will interpose; as, for example, where after the discovery of the fraud in the sale of property the purchaser still retains the property and uses it as his own, without making any offer to return it, or in any otherwise evincing a determination to avoid the contract, in such a case a Court of Equity at his instance will not interpose for the purpose of setting aside the contract; and as the fraud in such a case is cognizable in a Court of Law, where damages are properly ascertainable by a jury, equity will not take cognizance for the purpose of giving compensation. In this case if a fraud has been in anywise proven, Robinson does not appear to occupy that favorable ground which will justify a Court of Equity to decree him relief. He appears to have had the horse in possession for about eight or nine months after his purchase, and so far from evincing any disposition to avoid the contract on account of the fraud of Gilbreth, he rather manifests a determination to abide by the contract. Were we, however, mistaken in this view of the case, still we apprehend Robinson's bill cannot be maintained; for although fraud is cognizable in equity for the purpose of avoiding a contract, it is likewise cognizable in Courts of Law; and when the question of fraud has been decided by a Court of Law, that decision is conclusive between the parties in equity also. If, therefore, the question of fraud in the sale of the horse has been decided against Robinson in a Court of Law, that decision precludes any farther investigation by a Court of Equity. That there was such a decision on the trial of the action at law brought by Wilson as the assignee of Gilbreth, is pretty evident from the allegations of Robinson's bill; for it is not even suggested that the question of fraud was not litigated on that trial; but from the allegation that Robinson did not produce all his witnesses in relation to that matter on that trial, the conclusion is irresistible, that the question of fraud was then put in issue and determined against Robinson. Were every difficulty as to the propriety of a Court of Equity taking cognizance of the cause and determining the question of fraud removed, still we should be of opinion Robinson could not obtain relief. The evidence of some of the witnesses, it is true, in some measure conduces to prove the horse unsound when he was sold by Gilbreth to Robinson; but the weight of evidence we are inclined to think strongly preponderates in establishing a different conclusion. *3 With respect to the agreement mentioned in the bill as one ground upon which relief is sought, but little need be said. The evidence in relation to that subject is not of that satisfactory kind which will authorize any relief. Upon the whole, we are of opinion the decree of the Court below in dismissing Robinson's bill is correct. Decree affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Robinson v. Gilbreth 4 Bibb 183, 7 Ky. 183, 1815 WL 713 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
