(Cite as: 5 Litt. 88,  15 Ky. 88 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1383 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hord v. Bodley, Bodley, v. Hord. Apr. 15, 1824. *1 FROM THE MASON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. ADAM BEATTY SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 103 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k99 Possession Under Color of Title 20k103 k. Mixed Possession Under Hostile Titles,  or Conflicting Grants or Surveys. Most Cited Cases Though a junior patentee of land first takes possession, if the elder patentee, before he is barred, also takes possession of the same land, the latter thereby becomes possessed of the land to the whole extent of his claim. CRITTENDEN for Hord; BIBB for Bodley. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This ejectment was brought by Hord against Bodley in the courts below, and was served upon the tenants in possession on the 12th of August, 1817. Where two patents interfere, and the junior patentee first settles on a part of the interference with an intention of taking possession to the extent of his patent, and afterwards the elder patentee also enters upon and improves a part of the interference, he is, by construction of law, possessed of the whole tract. Each party claims the land in contest under adverse interfering patents. The patent under which Bo??dley claims, is admitted by the parties to be junior in date to that under which Hord claims, and both are admitted to bear date prior to 1795. It is also admitted, that in that year and after Bodley had obtained a conveyance from the patentee of the claim under which he holds, he entered upon the land and settled a tenant within the boundary common to both patents, intending thereby to take the possession to the extent of his patent boundary, and that the settlement and possession so acquired by Bodley, have been continued down to the present time, except so far as the same have been divested by the following evidence and admission of the parties, to wit: It was admitted, that Hord, intending to take the possession to the extent of the patent boundary under which he claims, in 1804, entered upon and improved part of the land included within the patent of each party; and it was proved that he has ever since kept up a continual claim to the whole of the land, at times extending the improvement which he made in 1804, and that in 1807 he settled a tenant on another part of the land, and has continued to keep the same tenanted ever since. Upon these admissions and evidence, Hord moved the court to instruct the jury, that if they believed from the evidence that he entered upon the interference before the passage of the act to compel the speedy adjustment of land claims, and before the defendants had been in possession twenty years, and that he had entered with an intention to take possession of the whole of the land, and had continued under such entry to make continual claim and to use and cut the timber as his own, notwithstanding the lapse of time his action might be maintained for all the interference, whether enclosed or not; but the court overruled the motion, and refused to give the instructions to the jury. *2 Although the elder patentee, in contemplation of law, must be adjudged to be possessed of the land, yet as the junior patentee had an actual settlement thereon, without being actually ousted, the elder patentee may elect to be disseized, for the purpose of obtaining a judgment under which the junior patentee may be expelled. Bodley then moved the court to instruct the jury that if they should be of opinion, that he had been in actual possession, by settlement on the land in controversy for more than seven years before the commencement of this suit, under title as admitted, they ought to find for him; but the court overruled the motion and instructed the jury, that if they were of opinion that Hord entered upon the wood-land prior to the passage of the act entitled "an act to compel the speedy adjustment of land claims," and before Bodley had been twenty years possessed thereof, with an intention of occupying the whole, that the plaintiff might well maintain his action against the defendant, provided the jury should be of opinion the defendant, had made entry upon and ejected the plaintiff from any part of the wood-land, &c. To the opinion of the court in refusing to instruct the jury as asked by the plaintiff, Hord, he excepted; and Bodley excepted to the opinion refusing the instructions asked by him. The act of 1809 to compel the speedy adjustment of land claims, does not vary the law. The jury found a verdict in favor of Hord for all the land which was not actually enclosed by Bodley in 1810, and the court rendered judgment thereon accordingly. To reverse that judgment, each party has prosecuted a writ of error. Hord, in his assignment of errors, complains of the decision of the court in overruling his motion for instructions to the jury; and Bodley in his assignment of errors, complains of the refusal of the court to instruct the jury as asked for by him. Unless the act of February, 1809, to compel the speedy adjustment of land claims, produces a different result, it is perfectly clear, that the instructions asked for by Hord, ought to have been given to the jury. The legal right of entry derived by Hord under the elder grant from the commonwealth, we know, would have been barred by an adverse possession of twenty years, according to the provisions of the general statute of limitations, in force at the passage of the act of 1809; but under that statute, the principle has long since been settled, that an entry upon land by the person having the legal right of entry, stops the running of the statute, when, in favor of a person taking the adverse possession, it had commenced to run; and the motion of Hord for the court to instruct the jury that his action might be maintained for the whole of the land in controversy, was hypothecated upon the fact of his having, within less than twenty years after the possession was obtained by Bodley, and within less than twenty years before the commencement of his action, entered upon the land in contest, with an intention of becoming possessed of the whole. It is true, that although Hord entered upon the land, he does not appear to have actually expelled Bodley therefrom; but possessing the right to enter, and having, in fact, entered with an intention of taking the possession of all the land in contest, he must. by construction of law, be adjudged to have thereby become possessed of the whole; for, says Littleton, "where two be in one house, or other tenement, and the one claimeth by one title, and the other by another title, the law shall adjudge him in possession that hath right to have the possession of the same tenements." See 701 Co. Lit. folio 380 a. *3 But in argument it was contended, that if, by his entry, Hord became possessed of the land the admission of facts and evidence in the cause, show that his action cannot be sustained; for, said the counsel, the action of ejectment is a possessory action, sustainable only where the person having the legal right of entry, has been ousted of the possession; and it was insisted, that from the admission of facts and evidence in the cause, Hord still retains all the possession which he gained by his entry upon the land; so that upon the supposition of his having obtained the possession by his entry, there has been no ouster of that possession. to authorize a recovery by him of any part of the land in contest. That Hord must be considered as retaining all the possession which he acquired by his entry upon the land, will not be controverted by the court. But it does not thence follow, that his action cannot be maintained; for although, in legal contemplation, he be adjudged to be possessed of the land, Bodley, nevertheless, has an actual settlement thereon, and asserts claim to the same under an adverse title, and in such a case, without being actually ousted of his possession, it is upon common law principles competent for Hord to elect to be disseized, for the purpose of trying the title, and for the purpose of obtaining a judgment under which Bodley may be expelled from the actual occupation of the land. Nor can we admit that a different result is produced by the act of February, 1809.?? To come within the operation of that act, it is not only necessary that there should be an actual settlement upon the land by Bodley under an adverse ??itle to that of Hord, but it is also essential that there should be a continuation of the adverse possession by him for the time prescribed in the act. But if we are correct in supposing, that by his entry Hord acquired the possession of all the land in contest, and that he has never since been ousted of that possession, it is impossible that Bodley can have held such a continued adverse possession, as to bring his case within the operation of the act of 1809. A majority of the court (the Chief Justice dissenting) are of opinion, therefore, that the court erred in refusing the instructions asked for by Hord. The judgment must, consequently, be reversed, the cause remanded to the court below, and the verdict of the jury set aside, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Bodley must pay the costs of both writs of error in this court. Ky.App. 1824. Hord v. Bodley 5 Litt. 88, 15 Ky. 88, 1824 WL 1383 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
