(Cite as: 4 Litt. 156,  14 Ky. 156 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1243 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Harper v. Coleman. Oct. 15, 1823. *1 FROM THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. B. SHACKLEFORD SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 416 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k416 k. Insufficiency or Illegality of Cause of Action.  Most Cited Cases Where a note was given for services so unskillfully performed that they were worth nothing, the consideration of the note must be considered as having failed entirely, and a judgment on the note may be relieved against in equity. Equity 150 k 44 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k44 k. Exclusive or Concurrent Jurisdiction. Most Cited  Cases When a note has been given to secure compensation for services rendered, which were performed in so unskillful a manner as to be worth nothing, relief against the note may be had in equity as well as at law. CRITTENDEN for Harper; MONROE and SHARP for Coleman. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This writ of error is prosecuted for the purpose of reversing a decree making perpetual an injunction which had been granted Coleman against a judgment recovered by Harper at law, on a note executed to him by Coleman for $60 50. Where a note has been given to secure compensation for services rendered, which were performed in so unskilful a manner as to be really worth nothing, relief may be had in equity, as well as at law. The bill of Coleman charges the note to have been given by him to Harper, in consideration of services performed by Harper in moulding, superintending and burning a kiln of about one hundred thousand bricks; and alleges, that when the note was given, he was not aware of the unskilful and negligent manner in which the brick had been moulded and burnt; but that, shortly thereofter, he discovered that most of the bricks were totally worthless, neither well made nor sufficiently burnt, there not being more than about ten thousand out of the one hundred thousand moulded, which were fit to put into a wall of a building he was about erecting. The bill also states, that Harper, though not named in a contract made by Coleman with Woodson, for moulding, burning and laying the brick for a house which Coleman was about to erect, was nevertheless the partner of Woodson, in the undertaking, and that in pursuance of the contract made with Woodson for the work, Harper commenced moulding the brick, and did actualy superintend the work, until the bricks were all made, put up in a kiln and burnt, and that the note upon which the judgment at law was obtained, was given by Coleman on no other consideration than that of the services of Harper in relation to the brick, which he, Coleman, then thought were skilfully performed, but which he has since ascertained to have been negligently and inartificially done, so that he has sustained great loss, not having obtained a sufficient quantity of brick out of the kiln, fit for use, to compensate him for the service of his hands in attending on Harper whilst engaged in the business of making and burning the brick. *2 Harper denies being the partner of Woodson in the contract with Coleman to make and burn the brick; but alleges that after the contract was concluded between them, he agreed to assist in moulding the brick, upon Coleman's promising to pay him thirty dollars per month, and that he accordingly commenced moulding, and continued until he had accomplished the number of bricks desired to be made; and after the bricks were made, he, upon similar wages, continued to assist in putting the bricks in a kiln, and finally aided in burning them. He insists that he was neither the undertaker of the work, nor the superintender of it, further than to mould the bricks, and that he alleges he performed faithfully and in a workmanlike manner. He alleges, that after the bricks were burnt, Coleman executed to him the note on which judgment at law was recovered, not, however, as a partner in the contract made with Woodson, but for his services as a mere hireling by the month, and urges a dismissal of the bill, &c. Whether or not Harper was in fact a partner in the contract made by Woodson with Coleman, is certainly left in some obscurity, by the evidence; but whether or not, is a matter, we apprehend, of no great consequence in the present contest. Considered in either light, the result would be equally unfavorable to Harper. If he be a partner, he ought, most indisputably, to be enjoined from the collection of the amount of his judgment at law; for, as an undertaker of the work for Coleman, he would then be presumed to have agreed to perform the work in a faithful and workmanlike manner, and so far from having done so, the proof is conclusive, that owing to the negligent and unskilful manner in which the bricks were moulded and burnt, Coleman, instead of deriving any benefit, has actually sustained loss from the work. But, admitting Harper not to have been a partner in the contract between Coleman and Woodson, still the proof is clear, that the note was executed to him by Coleman for his services in superintending, moulding and burning the brick; and after having performed that service in so negligent and unskilful a manner, as to produce injury to Coleman, his employer, he cannot be entitled to any compensation in a court of conscience. But it is urged that if Coleman is entitled to relief, it is in a court of law, where damages might be given for the negligent and inartificial performance of the work, and not in a court of equity. There might have been some force in the objection, if, from the evidence, Coleman could be supposed to have derived any benefit from the labor performed by Harper; but, to the contrary, the proof is entirely satisfactory, that the benefit derived from the kiln of brick is totally inadequate to compensate Coleman for the labor and materials furnished by him in assisting Harper in making and burning the brick. Under such a state of facts, the consideration of the note must be considered as having entire?? ly failed, and the judgment rendered on the note at law, properly relievable against in a court of equity. *3 Decree affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Harper v. Coleman 4 Litt. 156, 14 Ky. 156, 1823 WL 1243 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
