(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 192,  21 Ky. 192 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1531 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Commonwealth for Davy v. Stockton and his Sureties. Jun. 16, 1827. *1 Sheriff's Bonds. Executions. ERROR TO THE CUMBERLAND CIRCUIT; BENJAMIN MONROE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 157(4) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k157 Accrual or Release of Liability by Breach or Fulfillment of Conditions 353k157(4) k. Acts or Omissions Covered in General. Most  Cited Cases Where an officer, with process against the property of one person, seizes by virtue thereof the property of another, he is guilty of official misconduct, for which he and his sureties are liable on his official bond. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Davy brought an action of debt, in the name of the commonwealth, against Stockton and his sureties, upon the official bond which was entered into by Stockton, as sheriff of Cumberland county. The bond is in the usual form, and after being set out in the declaration, a breach of the condition is alleged by the relator Davy, in Stockton's having, as sheriff aforesaid, improperly and illegally levied upon the property of said Davy, an execution which had issued against the estate of Thomas M. Emmerson, and after making said levy, having, by his deputy, Henry Gilbreth, unlawfully and contrary to the duties of his office, actually sold the said property, to satisfy said execution, &c. Declaration by Davy on sheriff's bond for seizing his property under an execution against Emmerson. Stockton and his sureties demurred to the declaration, and the demurrer being joined, judgment was rendered by the court in their favor. Demurrer sustained by the circuit court. The correctness of the decision upon the demurrer, forms the only inquiry for this court, in deciding the present contest. In point of form, the declaration is well drawn, and contains every allegation necessary, to shew a good cause of action, if in point of law, an action is maintainable upon the official bond of a sheriff, for the act of a sheriff or his deputy, in taking, by color of an execution against the estate of one person, the property of another who is neither party or privy to the execution. It is unquestionably true, that for any illegal act which may be done, either by the sheriff or his deputy, by color of legal process, the sheriff is liable in his official capacity, to the person injured, whether that person be party to the process or a stranger. It is upon this principle, that actions have been frequently sustained against sheriffs for the acts of their bailiffs, in taking by color of executions the property of strangers. 3 Starkie Evi. 1354, 3 Wilson R. 309,  1 Wash. 90, 7 John. R. 35. Sheriff is liable for any illegal act of his deputy or bailiff committed under colour of law process. If, therefore, the principle of law be as we have assumed it to be, and as it has been repeatedly adjudged to be, it follows conclusively, we apprehend, under the statute of this country, that for any illegal abuse of the process of law, the person injured, whether party to the process or a stranger, is at liberty to sue the sheriff, and may sustain an action upon the bond against him and his sureties. The condition of the bond, is sufficiently comprehensive to embrace every official duty of the sheriff, and must be construed so as to authorize an action thereon, against him and his sureties in every case where an action could be maintained against him in his official character. *2 Person on whose property sheriff levies an execution against another, may have an action for his use, on the sheriff's official bond, against him and his sureties. The demurrer ought, therefore, to have been overruled. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Mayes, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. Commonwealth v. Stockton 5 T.B.Mon. 192, 21 Ky. 192, 1827 WL 1531 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
