(Cite as: Litt.Sel.Cas. 181,  16 Ky. 181 (Ky.),  1813 WL 687 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Glass v. Jacoby. Nov. 23, 1813. *1 FROM THE BOURBON COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 13 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353I Appointment, Qualification, and Tenure 353I(B) Constables 353k13 k. Resignation, Suspension, or Removal. Most Cited  Cases Though, in proceedings to remove a constable from office, the presence of a majority of the justices of the county is necessary to render a judgment of dismissal, yet it is not necessary when a judgment for costs is pronounced on the resignation of the constable before his dismissal from office. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 13 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353I Appointment, Qualification, and Tenure 353I(B) Constables 353k13 k. Resignation, Suspension, or Removal. Most Cited  Cases The county court may remove a constable from office, on charges exhibited against him, and may award judgment for the costs of the proceeding. And if he resign his office pending a prosecution commenced for his removal, he is not thereby protected from payment of the costs. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Charges having been exhibited in the Bourbon county court, to remove from office, Glass, who was constable for that county, before a decision was had, Glass resigned his office, and judgment was entered against him for the costs. A constable resigning after prosecution commenced for his removal from office, is liable for the costs of the prosecution. We can conceive no error in the judgment of that court giving costs. Had the court decided on the charges, and removed Glass from office, it is not pretended but judgment for costs should have been awarded against him. His having resigned his office, thereby avoiding an inquiry into the charges, surely can not protect him from the payment of the costs for which he, on a decision against him, would have been liable. The presence of a majority of the justices is not necessary to give a judgment for costs. It was not necessary, as seems to be supposed by the attorney for Glass, that a majority of the justices for Bourbon county should have been present when the judgment for costs was pronounced. It is true, the law requires that a majority should be present, to dismiss a constable from office. That requisition does not, however, apply to the giving judgment for costs. The judgment of the county court must be affirmed. Ky.App. 1813. Glass v. Jacoby Litt.Sel.Cas. 181, 16 Ky. 181, 1813 WL 687 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
