(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 136,  19 Ky. 136 (Ky.),  1826 WL 2191 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Stone & Waters v. Matherly. Apr. 5, 1826. *1 Verdict. Damages. Joint and Several Remittitur, Nole Proseque. Judgment. Error. ERROR TO THE ESTILL CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Action 13 k 45(3) 13 Action 13III Joinder, Splitting, Consolidation, and Severance 13k43 Joinder of Causes of Action Under Codes and Practice Acts 13k45 Nature and Grounds of Action in  General 13k45(3) k. Injuries to Person, Property, or Reputation.  Most Cited Cases In trespass, where several damages are assessed, the plaintiff must elect, and take one judgment only. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. The case of Sabin versus Long, 1 Wil. Rep. 30, is decisive against the judgment rendered by the court below, in this case. That was an action of trespass against three defendants, two of whom pleaded, and the other let judgment go by default. The jury, on trial of the issue, found for the plaintiff thirty-five shillings damages, and afterwards the plaintiff executed a writ of inquiry against the other defendant, and two shillings damages was assessed by the jury, and judgment was entered that the plaintiff do recover against two defendants thirty-five shillings, and against the other two shillings. It was held by the court, that the plaintiff might take judgment de melioribus damnis, where several damages are given, or enter a remittitur; but that taking the judgment for the whole, makes the judgment bad in point of law. Where several damages are assessed in trespass, plaintiff may take judgment for the greater sum against him or them on whom they are assessed, but can not have several judgments. The case now under consideration, was an action of trespass, assault and battery, against Francis Stone, Thomas Stone and John F. Waters. Each of the Stones pleaded, but Waters suffered judgment to go against him by default; and the jury who were sworn to try the issue as to the Stones, and to enquire of damages as to Waters, returned a verdict, that Francis Store and John F. Waters were guilty of the trespass in the declaration mentioned, and assessed the plaintiff's damages, by reason thereof, of twelve dollars against each of them, and as to Thomas Stone, the jury found he was not guilty. The court rendered judgment that the plaintiff recover of the defendants, Francis Stone and John F. Waters, the sum of twelve dollars each, the damages assessed by the jury against them, and also his costs, &c. and as to the defendant, Thomas Stone, judgment was rendered against the plaintiff. The plaintiff in case of several but equal damages assessed in trespass against two, may enter a remittitur of the damages as to one, and then take judgment against both, for the damages assessed against the other-- Between this case and that cited from Wilson's Reports, there is such a striking analogy in all their essential attributes, that argument is altogether useless to prove that the decision which was made by the court in the latter case, must be conclusive against the judgment rendered in this case. *2 Or he may enter a noli prosequi against one and take a judgment for the damages assessed against the other only. But after judgment was rendered, the plaintiff, by his attorney, entered upon the record a release for the twelve dollars recovered against Waters, and the question occurs, whether or not, by that release, the errer previously committed, is cured? It would undoubtedly have been competent for the plaintiff, after the verdict was returned by the jury, and before judgment, to have entered a remittitur as to the damages assessed against Waters; but if that had been done, the court regularly should have rendered judgment against Waters and F. Stone jointly, for the damages assessed against the latter, unless, as might have been done, a noli prosequi had been entered against Waters, and in that case, judgment might have been entered against Francis Stone, and should not have been entered, as was done in this case, against him and Waters, jointly, for the costs. But as there was neither a remittitur for the damages assessed against Waters, nor a noli prosequi entered as to him before judgment, the judgment, as rendered, is most clearly erroneous, and that error can not have been afterwards cured by the release of the damages assessed against Waters, which was entered upon the record. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and such proceedings and judgment there had and rendered, as may not be inconsistent with this opinion. Turner, for plaintiffs. Ky.App. 1826. Stone v. Matherly 3 T.B.Mon. 136, 19 Ky. 136, 1826 WL 2191 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
