(Cite as: 3 Bibb 254,  6 Ky. 254 (Ky.),  1814 WL 744 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hughes v. M'Coun's administrator. Apr. 5, 1814. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 439 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k439 k. Compelling Set-Off or Reduction of Damages. Most  Cited Cases Matter which might have been set off at law cannot be made the ground of a bill in equity for relief against a judgment. Judgment 228 k 464 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(B) Jurisdiction and Proceedings 228k464 k. Relief Awarded. Most Cited Cases On a bill filed for relief from a judgment at law, and setting up accounts cognizable in equity, only for the purpose of satisfying the judgment at law, which more than balance the judgment, it is error to decree for the balance, to recover which resort must be had to a court of law. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THE plaintiff in error prosecuted an action at law against the intestate, upon a bond for 111l.i 16is. bearing date the 23d of March, 1795, and payable the 1st of May thereafter, and after a trial on an issue joined to the plea of payment, recovered judgment for the amount of the bond with interest, etc. To obtain relief from this judgment the intestate in his lifetime exhibited his bill in chancery, in which he charges that he paid the plaintiff in error, in part discharge of the bond, a negro man at the price of one hundred pounds, and alleges that the plaintiff is indebted to him on various accounts, which he exhibits in his bill, an amount considerably exceeding the balance of the bond after deducting the amount of the negro; and prays an injunction against the judgment at law, and general relief. Payments and setsoff against a judgment at law, are subjects of equitable jurisdiction; and where the defense was not made at law, equity will relieve-- Acc. Morrison, executor v. Hart, vol. 2, p. 5, ante. But upon bill filed setting up several demands unconnected with the transaction upon which judgment was obtained, the Court ought not to decree the balance due to complainant, but entertain jurisdiction only so far as to enjoin the judgment at law. The plaintiff in error by his answer admits he received a negro man from the intestate at the price of L80, but denies it was in part discharge of the bond upon which the judgment at law was obtained, but alleges the negro was paid in part of another obligation which he held on him: he also denies every other material allegation of the bill. The Court below on a final hearing decreed the injunction perpetual against the judgment at law, and moreover decreed the plaintiff in error to pay fifty dollars, the balance of the accounts exhibited against him, after setting off so much thereof as was necessary to meet the amount of the bond upon which the judgment at law was obtained. To reverse this decree Hughes has prosecuted this writ of error. The evidence in this case very satisfactorily proves the payment of the negro in part of the bond upon which the judgment at law was obtained. If, however, the evidence in relation to that fact was doubtful, the circumstance of Hughes holding up the bond for the length of time he has, without prosecuting suit thereon, and his failure to exhibit the bond upon which he alleges the negro was paid, would remove the doubt, and clearly demonstrate the receipt of the negro in part of the bond, as alleged in the bill of the defendant in error. It is likewise equally clear from the evidence that payments have been made by M'Coun in his lifetime, to an amount exceeding the balance of the bond, and which should be applied to its discharge. But it was contended in argument that the defendant in error might have availed himself of the defense at law, and hence it is urged relief should not have been decreed in equity. Were the relief sought in equity founded on a defense exclusively cognizable at law, the failure to make defense at law would not afford a right to resort to a Court of Equity; but where the subject matter of defense is cognizable both at law and equity, it has been repeatedly held by this Court that a failure to make defense at law does not preclude the right to resort to equity. The subject matter of relief in this case could only have been available at law under a plea of setoff, a plea unknown to the common law, and long before it was admitted by the statute, Courts of Chancery retained jurisdiction for the purpose of setting off accounts, where, under particular circumstances, such as attend the present case, an agreement to set off the one demand against the other is evident. And it is believed Courts of Chancery still retain this jurisdiction, unless where defense is made a law under the statute allowing setsoff. In such a case the fact being tried in a Court of competent jurisdiction, the decision is conclusive in all Courts of co-ordinate jurisdiction; and hence it results after such a trial relief cannot be obtained in a Court of Equity. *2 In the present case, however, the setoff was not pleaded at law, the defense there made was under the plea of payment, and it is evident under that plea the defendant in error could not avail himself of the partial payments and accounts which form the grounds of relief in the suit in Chancery. The Court below, therefore, properly took cognizance of the cause and decreed a perpetual injunction against the judgment at law. But it is contended the decree should only have enjoined the plaintiff in error from proceeding on the judgment at law against the defendant in error, the administrator of the intestate; and it is therefore urged the decree making the injunction perpetual against all persons whatever, is erroneous. This objection, we are of opinion, is entitled to no weight. The suit in chancery was commenced by M'Coun in his lifetime, and after his decease revived in the name of his administrator; and we have no doubt but a decree on the merits, as in the present case, is a final bar to any further proceedings upon the judgment at law against the heirs of the intestate. It is, moreover, objected that the decree ordering the plaintiff in error to pay fifty dollars is erroneous, if in every other respect it is correct. This objection is entitled to more weight. The accounts exhibited in the bill do not form such an intimate union and connection as to make it necessary for the Court, by entertaining jurisdiction of part to take cognizance of the whole. The accounts are of that description which can only be cognizable in equity for the purpose of satisfying the judgment at law. There is one item in the account of fifty dollars, the amount decreed to be paid, unconnected with the others, and to obtain relief for which resort might have been properly made to an action at law. The Court below, therefore, should not have taken cognizance of the accounts farther than became necessary to meet the amount of the judgment at law; and the decree giving relief to a greater extent is erroneous. The decree must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below, and a decree there entered according to the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Hughes v. McCoun's Adm'r 3 Bibb 254, 6 Ky. 254, 1814 WL 744 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
