(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 410,  10 Ky. 410 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1115 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ninian & Rezen Ridgway v. Willis Collins et al. May 31, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 50 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k48 Set-Offs and Counterclaims Against Assigned Causes of Action 352k50 k. Demands Arising or Maturing After Assignment or  Notice Thereof. Most Cited Cases A claim, to be available as a set-off against the assignee, must be one existing in favor of defendant, before notice of the assignment. Assignments 38 k 101 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k99 Equities and Defenses Between Original Parties 38k101 k. As Affected by Notice of Assignment. Most Cited  Cases For an equity against the assignor to be availing against the assignee, it must be an existing one before notice of the assignment. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: On the 8th day of October, 1818, Ninian & Rezen Ridgway executed an obligation promising to pay Silas W. Robins & 462 and 17 cents on or before the 25th December, 1818. After this obligation became payable, Collins, under an assignment purporting to have been made to him by Robins the 31st October, 1818, brought suit in his own name against the Ridgway's on the obligation and finally recovered judgment, at law, for the amount, with interest and cost. The Ridgway's then exhibited their bill in equity with an injunction, for the purpose of being relieved from the judgment. They charge, that although the obligation given by them to Robins purports to have been assigned by him to Collins, on the 31st of October, 1818, it was not in fact assigned until subsequent to the 8th of December, 1818; that prior to that time Robins and a certain David Dodge had executed to a certain James Holly their obligation, binding themselves to transfer to Holly twenty-two shares in the stock of the Commercial Bank of Winchester, before the first of October, 1818, but they failed to make the transfer, and that on the 7th of December, 1818, Holly for a valuable consideration, assigned to them (the Ridgway's) said obligation; that, if in point of fact Robins had previously assigned his obligation to Collins before the 7th of December, 1818, they, the Ridgway's, had no notice of it until sometime after they procured the assignment from Holly. They moreover allege that they have since brought suit against Dodge and Robins on the obligation assigned by Holly, and have recovered judgement at law, but they own Dodge and Robins are insolvent and the money can not be made. They make Collins, Robins and Dodge defendants, and ask for the judgment which they have recovered against Dodge & Robins to be set off and applied to the extinguishment of the judgment which Collins as the assignee of Robins has recovered against them, &c. Collins, by his answer, admits that the assignment was not made on the day it purports to have been made by Robins, but alleges he had contracted with Robins for the obligation, and when the assignment was made it was dated so as to accord with the contract which he had previously made with Robins. He alleges that the Ridgeway's were notified of the assignment before the 16th of Dec., 1818, but does not state the precise day when notice was given, &c. *2 Dodge and Robins also answered, but as their answers can avail nothing in this contest, they need not be noticed. The court below, on a final hearing, dissolved the Ridgway's injunction with damages, and dismissed their bill with cost. From that decree they have appealed to this court. We are of opinion the decree of that court is correct. The only pretext which the Ridgway's can have for resorting to equity is the alleged insolvency of Dodge & Rollins. For it is not pretended that there exists any connection between the two obligations, and the judgment recovered by the Ridgeway's at law, is not against the same person who has obtained the judgment against them, and from which they have sought to be relieved. The judgment which Collins has obtained against them, appears, however, to have been recovered on an obligation given by them to Robins, and, if they have alleged and proven such an equity against Robins as would have been availing against him, before they were notified of the assignment to Collins, that equity must be availing against Collins. This we apprehend has not, however, been done. For in the absence of any connection between the demand now desired to be set off by the Ridgway's, and the demand for which Collins has obtained judgment at law, it was important, for the purpose of shewing their equity against Robins, that the Ridgway's should have alleged and proven Robins to have been insolvent before Collins notified them of his assignment. But in this they have totally failed. They have alleged Robins' insolvency when they filed their bill, but they must have known of the assignment before then; and they have proven he was insolvent when they took their depositions in this cause, but his being then insolvent does not shew that he was so when Collins notified them of his assignment. For an equity against an obligee to be availing against an assignee, it must be an existing one before notice of the assignment. Having therefore failed to shew that Robins was insolvent before they were notified of the assignment by him to Collins, the Ridgway's have failed to shew any equity as against Robins before they had notice of Collin's assignment, and consequently they have failed to establish any equitable right of set off against Collin's judgment. For it is only where the obligors equity arises before notice of assignment, that his equity can be availing against the assignee. The decree must be affirmed with cost and damages on the damages decreed by the court below. Hanson for appellant, Bibb contra. Ky.App. 1821. Ridgway v. Collins 3 A.K.Marsh. 410, 10 Ky. 410, 1821 WL 1115 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
