(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 71,  8 Ky. 71 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1162 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Joshua Ferguson v. John Bullock. Nov. 27, 1817. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE WASHINGTON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Covenants 108 k 102(1) 108 Covenants 108III Performance or Breach 108k99 Covenant of Warranty 108k102 Eviction 108k102(1) k. Necessity. Most Cited  Cases Where there is an exchange of land, and one of the parties is evicted from any part of the land by a paramount title, such eviction is a breach of the covenant of warranty, the remedy for which is an action at law. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases The remedy for damages for breach of covenant is by action at law, and not in equity. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases Where parties mutually exchange lands with warranty, a bill in equity cannot be maintained by one to be restored to the land conveyed by him to the other, on being ejected from that conveyed to him, as he has an adequate remedy at law to obtain relief for breach of warranty. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: In June, 1795, the appellant and appellee mutually agreed to exchange the tracts of land upon which they respectively resided, and reciprocally covenanted each to convey to the other, at some convenient time, by a sufficient deed with general warranty. Accordingly, in August following, the appellant, by a regular deed of bargain and sale, conveyed, with general warranty, the tract whereon he resided, to the appellee; and in September thereafter the appellee, by a similar deed, conveyed the tract by him sold, to the appellant. Subsequent to this, a certain John Fitch prosecuted an action of ejectment, under an adverse claim, against the appellee and finally succeeded in evicting him from the greater part of the tract conveyed by the appellant. The appellee then exhibited his bill in equity against the appellant, for the purpose of being restored to the land conveyed by him to the appellant, or to obtain such relief as the equity of his case might be thought would entitle him to; and after setting forth the preceding facts, charges the appellant with having fraudulently concealed from him the knowledge of Fitch's claim. The appellant, by his answer, denies the fraud charged, and insists, that for a breach of the covenant of warranty, the appellee should have resorted to an action at law for damages. On a final hearing, the court below pronounced a decree compelling the appellant to make compensation; and from that decree he has appealed to this court. *2 If no fraud was committed by the appellant in making the contract, the principle is not perceived upon which the appellee's claim for compensation can be sustained, in a court of equity. Upon being evicted from any part of the land by a paramount title, the appellee would, no doubt, have a just claim against the appellant for compensation, but as such an eviction would be clearly a breach of the covenant of warranty, to obtain relief, an action at law would most unquestionably be the appropriate remedy. In such an action the appellee could not, it is true, be restored to the land conveyed by him to the appellant; but as the loss of the land, purchased by him, can not have conferred any right to such a restoration, it is plain, the incapacity of a court of law to afford such a redress, can furnish no cause for resorting to a court of equity; and for the purpose of recovering compensation in damages, there was certainly no necessity on account of any defect in the capacity of a court of law to give reliefs, to apply to equity; for the powers of courts of law are as ample, and the rules by which they are governed, the same, in such a proceeding, as those of courts of equity. Where a party's remedy is complete at law, chancery will not entertain the case. Whether, therefore, the bill of the appellee was properly sustained, turns exclusively upon the question whether a fraud was committed upon him by the appellant, in concealing the claim of Fitch? Upon adverting to the evidence in relation to that charge we are however satisfied, that no fraud is proven to have been committed; for, although the appellant is proven to have known of Fitch's claim when he made the contract, it is moreover shewn by the testimony of one witness, whose evidence we think is entitled to credit, that the appellee, whilst the parties were contracting, was informed of that claim. The decree must therefore be reversed, the cause remanded, and the bill dismissed with cost. Hughes, for appellant; Bibb, for appellee. Ky.App. 1817. Ferguson v. Bullock 1 A.K.Marsh. 71, 8 Ky. 71, 1817 WL 1162 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
