(Cite as: 4 Bibb 219,  7 Ky. 219 (Ky.),  1815 WL 731 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Governor, for Whitlock, administrator, v. Edwards' executor. Nov. 2, 1815. *1 A sheriff levying an execution on the household furniture of a tenant in the house, the rent of which remains in arrear, and proceeding to sell the same, although notified thereof, and refusing to satisfy the rent, is liable to an action on his bond as sheriff. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 157(4) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k157 Accrual or Release of Liability by Breach or Fulfillment of Conditions 353k157(4) k. Acts or Omissions Covered in General. Most  Cited Cases Where a sheriff levies an execution on the property of a tenant on the premises, the rent for which is unpaid, and sells the property after notice without satisfying the rent, he is liable to an action on his official bond. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 157(5) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k157 Accrual or Release of Liability by Breach or Fulfillment of Conditions 353k157(5) k. Collection, Custody, and Disposition of Money.  Most Cited Cases It is a breach of a sheriff's bond if he sell a tenant's goods taken in execution without satisfying a landlord for his rent, if notice be given him that rent is in arrear. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS action was brought by the present plaintiff in the Court below against the testator of the defendant in his lifetime, upon a bond given by him for the faithful performance of his duty as sheriff. The cause of action, as set forth in the declaration, is briefly and substantially this: Whitlock leased to a certian John Grant a house and lot in the town of Louisville, and there being in arrear and due him for one year's rent $100, one of the deputies of the said Edwards levied a writ of fieri facias, which had come to his hands against the estate of said Grant, upon the household furniture found in said house; and although he was notified of the rent being in arrear and unpaid, proceeded to sell, and did actually dispose of the said goods, whereby Whitlock in consequence thereof has been altogether prevented from collecting his rent, etc. To this declaration the defendant filed a plea of conditions performed, and also a demurrer. An issue was made up to the plea, and the demurrer joined, and the Court being of opinion the declaration contained no sufficient cause of action, gave judgment against the plaintiff. The right of action, as against the sheriff, is predicated upon the 13th section of the act of 1796, concerning executions, etc.;  1 Littell 542. That section provides that "no goods or chattels whatsoever lying or being in or upon any messuage, lands, or tenements, which are or shall be leased for life or lives, term of years, at will or otherwise, shall at any time hereafter be liable to be taken by virtue of any writ of execution, or on any pretense whatsoever, unless the party so taking the same shall, before removal of the goods from off such premises, pay or tender to the landlord or lessor thereof, or his agent, all the money or tobacco due for the rent of the said premises at the time of taking such goods or chattels, provided," etc. *2 This section, as respects the present contest, is substantially the same of the British statute of 8 Anne, ch. 14, s 1, and if construed according to what we conceive to be its obvious import, and as the British statute by a current of adjudications has been construed, there can be no question but what the declaration contains in substance a good cause of action--See 2 Tidd's Prac. 926-7--1 Strange 212--2 Wilson 140. From these authorities the sheriff is clearly liable when he removes the goods without satisfying the landlord, after having notice of the rent being in arrear; and as the declaration in this case contains in substance such a charge, the Court below should not have sustained the demurrer. It is true by a subsequent act of 1810, the legislature have made various other provisions in relation to the subject of rent, but as the goods alleged in the present case to have been taken and sold by the sheriff, are charged to have been household furniture taken from the house leased, that act cannot affect the present case. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs and the cause remanded to the Court below for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Governor v. Edwards' Ex'r 4 Bibb 219, 7 Ky. 219, 1815 WL 731 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
