(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 430,  8 Ky. 430 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1017 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kinsler v. M'Millan. Apr. 8, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE HARRISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Trial 388 k 14 388 Trial 388II Dockets, Lists, and Calendars 388k14 k. Striking Cause from Docket. Most Cited Cases Where a final decree has been pronounced for some years, and there appears to have been no order of the court, at the term in which the final decree was entered, either suspending its operation or continuing the cause, it was proper to strike the cause from the docket. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a decision of the court below, refusing to permit the answer of Kinsler to be filed, and an order, directing the cause to be stricken from the docket. But as a final decree appears to have been pronounced against Kinsler several years anterior to his applying for permission to file his answer, the court, no doubt, decided correctly in not allowing it to be filed; and although the cause may have been continued upon the docket, yet as there appears to have been no order of the court, at the time in which the final decree was entered, either suspending its operation, or continuing the cause, the order directing it to be stricken from the docket, is most unquestionably correct. After a final decree has been some years pronounced, it is correct to prevent a defendant from filing his answer, though the cause may have remained on the docket--it is also correct to strike the cause from the docket. With respect to the objection taken in the assignment of errors, in relation to the original decree against Kinsler, and the proceedings previously had, we have not thought proper to examine, for as the appeal is taken to the order refusing Kinsler permission to file his answer and striking the cause from the docket, the enquiries of the court should be confined, exclusively, to the propriety of that order; and as, under the circumstances of the case, we suppose it to have been correctly made, the decision of the court must be affirmed with cost. Bibb for appellant. Ky.App. 1819. Kinsler v. McMillan 1 A.K.Marsh. 430, 8 Ky. 430, 1819 WL 1017 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
