(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 217,  8 Ky. 217 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1319 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Achillis Sneed, v. Dennis Reardon. Jun. 4, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 275(2) 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k275 Effect of Defects or Irregularities in Execution, Levy,  or Sale 161k275(2) k. Judgment or Execution. Most Cited  Cases Since, under Act 1792, land may be sold under execution in satisfaction of a judgment remaining in force, though such judgment is erroneous, and a judgment and execution regularly issued confer sufficient authority to the sheriff to sell, a sale and conveyance by him under such an execution transfers the title of the execution defendant. Execution 161 k 276(2) 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k276 Effect of Modification, Vacation, or Reversal of  Judgment 161k276(2) k. Reversal. Most Cited  Cases A subsequent reversal of a judgment under which an execution sale was had does not devest the title of the execution purchaser, unless he is plaintiff in execution. Execution 161 k 311 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(H) Conveyance to Purchaser 161k309 Form and Contents 161k311 k. Recitals. Most Cited  Cases Though a deed under a sheriff's sale does not recite literally the execution under which the sale was made, yet, if there is enough in the deed to ascertain the execution, the title will pass to the purchaser. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a writ of error brought by the plaintiff in error to reverse a judgment obtained against him in an action of ejectment, which he prosecuted in the court below for the purpose of recovering from the defendant the possession of a tract of land. The plaintiff asserted his right to recover through the heirs of Bartlett Searcy, deceased; and after having introduced the patent of Searcy, and the deed of conveyance to him from the heirs, the defendant, for the purpose of shewing the heirs had no title when they gave the deed to the plaintiff, produced a deed of conveyance executed to him by a deputy sheriff; and after the judgment and execution under which the sale was made by the sheriff were also introduced, the court, on the defendant's motion, instructed the jury that the deed from the sheriff vested in the defendant the legal title. Whether, therefore, the court correctly instructed the jury, is the only enquiry presented for consideration. If the sheriff's deed conforms to the requisitions of the law, there can be no doubt but that the title passed to the defendant. An officer's deed who sells land under execution (if the statute is complied with in the sale) passes the title to the purchaser, tho' the judgment under which the execution issues be afterwards reversed. *2 Tho' a deed under a sheriff's sale may not recite literally the execution under which the sale was made, yet if there is enough in the deed to ascertain the execution, the title will pass to the purchaser. The judgment, to satisfy which the sale was made, as has since been determined by this court, was, it is true, for error in the proceedings, liable to be reversed; but as by the act of 1792, land is subjected to sale under writs of fieri facias, in satisfaction of all judgments, although the judgment may be erroneous, under a sale and conveyance made whilst it remains in full force, the title must be considered as passing to the purchaser. For, as the judgment and execution confer a sufficient authority to the sheriff to sell, it follows that a sale and conveyance by him must necessarily transfer to the purchaser the defendant's title. That the deed substantially conforms to the requisitions of the law, we are also of opinion, there is but little room to doubt. It does not, it is true, recite literally the writ of fieri facias under which the sale was made, but it recites, what we suppose sufficient, that the land was taken and sold to the defendant for the consideration of eighty pounds, under an execution which had been obtained by the defendant in the court of quarter sessions of Woodford county, against the estate of Bartlett Searcy, for l75 debt, and l4 17 costs, & c. There is, it is true, a variance between the execution thus recited, and that given in evidence; but as it exists only in describing the l75 for which it issued, to be debt instead of damages, and a slight difference in the amount of the cost, that variance, especially as from other circumstances exhibited in the record, the execution under which the sale was made, is clearly ascertained, can not have prevented the title from passing to the defendant. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Wickliffe for plaintiff, Talbot, for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1818. Sneed v. Reardon 1 A.K.Marsh. 217, 8 Ky. 217, 1818 WL 1319 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
