(Cite as: 3 Bibb 295,  6 Ky. 295 (Ky.),  1814 WL 764 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. True v. Clark's executors. Apr. 18, 1814. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 241 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(B) Parties 228k241 k. Separate Judgments Against Different Parties. Most  Cited Cases Upon a joint and several obligation, such as a joint and several bond, if the plaintiff brings a joint action, he cannot take judgment at one term against one obligor and at another term against the other obligor. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS was a joint action brought against the appellant and three others on a joint and several obligation executed by them. The process was served previous to the March term, 1812, on the appellant, and Hendly, one other of the obligors, but not in time on the appellant to authorize a judgment at that time. A judgment by default was then taken against Hendly, on whom the process had been served in time, and the cause continued as to the appellant. At the June term judgment by default was also taken against the appellant; from which he has prosecuted this appeal. Upon a joint and several obligation, if the pl'tl brings a joint action he cannot take judgment a??one term against one obligor, and at another term against the other obligor. Two questions are presented for consideration in the determination of this cause. 1. Was it regular to proceed to take judgment against Hendly at the March term? And if it was not, 2. Does that irregularity vitiate the subsequent proceedings and judgment against the appellant? Were the obligation upon which the action was brought joint only, and not several, by the repeated and concurrent decisions of this Court, judgment should not have been taken at the March term against Hendly. In such a case, the contract being joint, no other but a joint action could be maintained, and consequently the judgment and execution should conform to the action and be joint likewise. But as in the case of a joint contract the action must conform to the nature of the obligation so in the case of a joint and several obligation, each being bound separately as well as jointly for the whole, the action may in conformity to the agreement be brought jointly against all, or separate actions may be maintained against each. If, however, in the latter case the obligee elects to proceed jointly, his action must partake of the nature of other joint actions brought on joint obligations, and proceed subject to the same rules and consequences. As, therefore, the taking judgment against Hendly, if on a joint bond would have been irregular, so in the present case as the plaintiff in the Court below proceeded against all the obligors jointly, it was irregular to take judgment against the one under the existing state of preparation as to the other. If then we are correct in the position that the judgment against Hendly was irregular, the answer to the second question necessarily follows in the affirmative, that the subsequent proceedings against the appellant are also erroneous; for if the judgment must pursue the nature of the action, the same reason that forbids the taking a separate judgment against Hendly, requires that such a judgment should not have been entered against the appellant. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and the action as to the appellant dismissed. Ky.App. 1814. True v. Clark's Ex'rs 3 Bibb 295, 6 Ky. 295, 1814 WL 764 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
