(Cite as: 4 Bibb 337,  7 Ky. 337 (Ky.),  1816 WL 754 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Craig v. Payne. May 20, 1816. *1 A slave remaining in the possession of a person for more than five years, without any evidence in writing of a reservation, etc., is liable for his debts. That the possession acquired the property in trust for another, does not take it out of the statute. West Headnotes Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 36 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186I Transfers and Transactions Invalid 186I(B) Nature and Form of Transfer 186k36 k. Loan or Hire of Chattels. Most Cited  Cases If a person loans slaves without declaring the loan by any public act, and suffers them to remain five years in the possession of the borrower, who contracts debts, and the lender then retakes the slaves, they are liable to satisfy those creditors. Opinion of the Court, by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was an action of detinue brought in the Court below by the appellee, to recover from the appellant a negro girl which he held under a sale made by a sheriff in virtue of a writ of fieri facias which issued in his favor against a certain Abraham Proctor. The trial was had on the general issue, and after proof was made that Proctor had been possessed of the negro for more than five years before the purchase by the appellant, without any evidence in writing of a reservation or limitation of the reversion or remainder in the negro to any person whatever, but connected with circumstances conducing in some measure to prove the possession was obtained from a certain William B. Suity, in the execution of a trust of which he was invested for the special use and benefit of the wife of said Proctor; the Court instructed the jury that if they should be of opinion that the negro girl was transferred to Suity in trust for Mrs. Proctor, and that the possession gained by Proctor was in execution of that trust, in that case the possession for five years and upward did not subject the negro to the execution of a creditor. Exceptions were taken to the instructions of the Court, and a verdict and judgment being obtained by the plaintiff in that Court, the defendant there has brought the cause to this Court by an appeal. We cannot agree with the Court below in supposing it material that Proctor should not have gained the possession under a trust, in order to subject the property, after a possession of five years, to the execution of his creditors. Such an inference, we apprehend, cannot be deduced from a fair exposition of that branch of the statute of 1796 against frauds and perjuries, upon which the present contest exclusively turns. It provides that where any reservation or limitation shall be pretended to have been made of an use or property, by way of condition, reversion, remainder, or otherwise, in goods and chattels, the possession whereof shall have remained in another, or those claiming under him, for the space of five years, the same shall be taken, as to the creditors and purchasers of the persons aforesaid so remaining in possession, to be fraudulent, and that the absolute property is with the possession, unless such reservation or limitation of use or property were declared by will or deed in writing, proved, etc. *2 According to the literal and plain import of this branch of the statute, it is not the mode by which the possession is acquired, but the being possessed for the space of five years, which has the constructive operation of making fraudulent and void all pretended reservations and limitations, either of the use or property, and unites the absolute property with the possession. As, therefore, being possessed, though under a trust comes strictly within the letter of the statute, by no principle or rule of construction can such a case be taken out of its legal operation. Cases may probably occur where, notwithstanding they may not come strictly within the letter of the statute, yet by being within the mischief designed by its makers to be remedied, perhaps, by a liberality of construction, will be embraced by it; but to exempt the case of a possession obtained under a trust from the influence of the statute, requires a latitude of construction perfectly inadmissible, and which, by opening a door to the commission of frauds and perjuries, would, in an eminent degree, tend to promote the mischiefs intended to be relieved against. The instructions of the Court are, therefore, erroneous, and the judgment for that cause must be reversed, and the cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. The appellant must recover his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1816. Craig v. Payne 4 Bibb 337, 7 Ky. 337, 1816 WL 754 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
