(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 45,  9 Ky. 45 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1150 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Moses O. Bledsoe v. Wm. Adams et al. Oct. 18, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE GARRARD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Gaming and Lotteries 188 k 276(8) 188 Gaming and Lotteries 188II Rights and Remedies of Parties 188k272 Parties to Bet or Game 188k276 Right to Recover Winnings Under Contract 188k276(3) Particular  Contexts 188k276(8) k. Parties entitled to claim lottery  winnings; assignments. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 188k16) There can be no recovery by the assignee on a note won at play by fraud and cheating from the payee, where the maker, after being notified of the facts, has paid the amount to the payee. JUDGE ROWAN DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent, Judge Owsley. Adams had executed his note to Buford for $391.67 cts., payable two years after date. The bill of Bledsoe alleges that the note was, before it was due, won at play fairly by William M'Intire from the said Buford, and delivered over without assignment, by the latter to the former. That, being assured by Buford that it was won fairly by M'Intire, and by Adams that it was just, and that he would pay it, when it became due; he bought it from M'Intire for a full and valuable consideration. That he commenced suit upon the note, in the name of Buford, for his own benefit. That, pending the suit, Adams and Buford combined to defraud him, and the latter executed to the former a receipt in full against the note, and gave him also a written order to the clerk to dismiss the suit, which was done accordingly. The bill prayed a decree for the amount of the note, with the interest thereon, against Adams and Buford, (who were made defendants), or one of them. The answers allege that Bledsoe, M'Intire and John King, formed a combination to cheat Buford out of the note at cards. That M'Intire played, and Bledsoe and King were present, performing their parts respectively in the fraud. That Buford, moreover, was so intoxicated with liquor, as to be incapable of playing, counting his game, or detecting the various gross frauds which were practiced upon him. That the note was fraudulently obtained from the stakeholder in the presence of, and without the consent of Buford. That he, the next morning, forbade Adams to pay it to them, or either of them. That the amount of the note was paid by Adams to Buford. That King and Bledsoe were equally concerned with M'Intire, in the interest, in this foul transaction. The proof in the cause, supports the statements of the answers, and, of course, negatives the allegations of the bill. This is a case of singular aspect. It possesses not a solitary feature calculated to conciliate the regard of the chancellor. The decree of dismissal must be affirmed with costs. Pope, for appellant. Ky.App. 1819. Bledsoe v. Adams 2 A.K.Marsh. 45, 9 Ky. 45, 1819 WL 1150 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
