(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 239,  9 Ky. 239 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1006 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Pope et al. v. Druby Melone et al. Apr. 24, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT OF SHELBY. West Headnotes Principal and Agent 308 k 119(2) 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(A) Powers of Agent 308k118 Evidence as to Authority 308k119 Presumptions and Burden of  Proof 308k119(2) k. Sale and Transfer of Property in  General. Most Cited Cases Where a deed executed by one as agent is exhibited, but his authority is not proved, the title must be considered as residing in his principal, who should have been made a party to the suit;  and if the bill is dismissed, it should be without prejudice. Equity 150 k 91 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k89 Parties in General 150k91 k. Nature and Extent of Interest. Most Cited  Cases All the tenants in common should be parties to a suit for adjusting land titles. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court dismissing the bill of the appellants, who were complainants in that court. The appellees held the land in contest under an adverse conflicting claim, and the appellants asserted the superior equity under an entry for nine thousand eight hundred acres, in the name of James Morrison, and patented in the name of Morrison and the appellant, Pope, and to the undivided moiety of which as tenants in common with Pope, the appellants, John and James Bates, claimed under the heirs of the said Morrison. In reviewing the decree pronounced by the circuit court in this cause, we have deemed it improper to examine the validity of the entry under which the appellants claim. For the purpose of investigating that entry, it was certainly essential, as has been repeatedly held by this court, for all those holding a common interest to unite, or be made parties to the suit?? A suit in chancery for adjusting land titles, can not be maintained in the name of one tenant in common; all the tenants in common must be parties. Vide ante, Newman Kendal. Upon that supposition the Bateses claiming the undivided moiety of Morrison appear to have joined with Pope, the owner of the other moiety, in the present contest. The record, however, furnishes no evidence of the heirs having transferred their title in the land to the Bateses. A deed purporting to have been executed by James Morrison as agent for the heirs, is exhibited in the record, but there is no evidence of Morrison being authorized by the heirs to execute the deed. Without evidence of such authority therefore, the title must be considered as residing in the heirs, and consequently as the holders of an interest in common, the heirs should have been made parties to the suit. A paper purporting to be a deed transferring title, and executed by one styling himself agent, gives no title unless coupled with the authority under which he has acted. *2 But as they were not parties, the circuit court might have decreed a dismissal of the appellants' bill without prejudice, but it was irregular to enter an absolute dismissal. Because, therefore, the bill was dismissed absolutely, the decree must be reversed, the cause remanded to that court, and the bill dismissed without prejudice to the appellants bringing another suit. Each party must pay their own costs in this court. Littell for appellant, Talbot for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Pope v. Melone 2 A.K.Marsh. 239, 9 Ky. 239, 1820 WL 1006 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
