(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 200,  19 Ky. 200 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1269 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bell v. Bullitt. Apr. 19, 1826. *1 Pleading. Demurrer. Judgment. Record. Ambiguity. Error. ERROR TO THE SHELBY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 1177(4) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVII Determination and Disposition of Cause 30XVII(D) Reversal 30k1177 Necessity of New Trial 30k1177(4) k. Defects in Pleadings. Most Cited  Cases Where one of defendant's pleas was good, and the other bad, but plaintiff's count was good, and he demurred to one of the pleas, but to which one the Supreme Court, from the record, cannot determine, the judgment of the trial court against plaintiff will be reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings. Bail 49 k 28 49 Bail 49I In Civil Actions 49k25 Action or Scire Facias on Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k28 k. Defenses. Most Cited Cases It is not a sufficient plea to a scire facias on a recognizance of bail that the plaintiff failed for two years to sue out a ca. sa. Bail 49 k 33 49 Bail 49I In Civil Actions 49k25 Action or Scire Facias on Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k33 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases The record of the original suit against the principal is not a part of the record in the sci. fa. against the bail, unless made such by the plea. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Bell brought an action of debt in the Shelby circuit court against Blackwell. The capias, which required bail was executed upon Blackwell, and by an endorsement thereon, in the form required by the act of assembly upon that subject, Bullitt became special bail. Bullitt becomes bail for Blackwell at the suit of Bell. Judgment was recovered by Bell, but the amount thereof was not made by a writ of fieri facias, which issued against the estate of Blackwell; nor was Blackwell taken under a capias ad satisfaciendum, which issued against him upon the judgment, nor was he surrendered in custody by his bail or otherwise. Judgment vs. Blackwell, and fi. fa. and ca. sa. without effect. To subject the bail to the payment of his judgment, Bell sued out a scire facias against Bullitt, upon his recognizance of special bail. Scire facias vs. Bullitt. Bullitt appeared to the scire facias, and pleaded two pleas. Two pleas to the scire facias. 1st. Nul tiel record; and secondly, that the plaintiff Bell, for upwards of two years after the judgment was rendered against Blackwell, failed to sue out a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum against him, during all which time, Blackwell resided in the county of Shelby, liable to arrest, and that finally Bell permitted the said Blackwell to remove from the limits of the State without causing him to be arrested, &c. To one of these pleas Bell demurred, and made no answer to the other; but to which plea the demurrer was intended to apply, the record contains no certain information. *2 Demurrer "to one of" the pleas. The demurrer was joined by Bullitt, and after a suggestion of the filing of the demurrer and joinder, the record recites, "whereupon argument was heard, and the court being sufficiently advised, &c. it is considered that the recognizance of special bail, as appears in the scire facias and record herein filed, is insufficient to charge the defendant, &c. and, therefore, the plaintiff cannot sustain his action against the defendant. It is therefore considered by the court, that the defendant recover against the plaintiff his cost by him about his defense in this behalf expended," &c. Judgment of the court against the sufficiency of the scire facias. To reverse that judgment, this writ of error is prosecuted by Bell. The only difficulty that we have had to encounter, in our reflections upon the present contest, grows out of the defective state of the record. Whether we look to the judgment of the court, or advert to the pleadings, it is equally impracticable to ascertain to which of the pleas the demurrer was intended to apply. Neither the judgment nor demurrer contains even the slightest allusion to either plea in exclusion of the other, nor is the uncertainty as to the plea in any degree removed by the entry which was made by the clerk upon the record when the pleadings were filed. If where two pleas are pleaded, one good and the other ill, there is a demurrer to one, but which of them is uncertain, the court give judgment that the plaintiff's scire facias is insufficient, the question in this court on error will be on the scire facias. But apply the demurrer to either plea, it is plain that the judgment rendered by the court cannot be maintained. Considered with reference to the first plea, it would no doubt have been correct to overrule the demurrer; for that plea goes to deny the existence of any such record as that referred to in the scire facias, and if in fact there be no such record, the scire facias unquestionably cannot be sustained, and of course the demurrer should be overruled. But the judgment of the court, instead of simply overruling the demurrer, implies a decision against the sufficiency of the recognizance of special bail, mentioned in the scire facias to charge Bullitt, and that owing to the insufficiency of the recognizance, and not from any defect in the first plea, the scire facias was adjudged not maintainable. In that opinion, however, we cannot concur. The scire facias is in the usual form and contains nothing which, according to the most strained and rigid construction, can warrant the conclusion unfavorable to the sufficiency of the recognizance; and were we at liberty to look into the record of the original action, brought by Bell against Blackwell, for the purpose of examining the recognizance, as the court below seems to have done, we should have no hesitation in pronouncing it to contain every essential requisite to a valid recognizance. *3 Scire facias held sufficient. But in deciding upon the demurrer, it was neither correct or proper for the court to search out and decide upon the recognizance contained in the original record. It was doubtless incumbent upon the court to explore the whole of the record in this case, and if the record of the original action formed a part of this, it would have been strictly correct to decide upon the sufficiency of the recognizance therein contained; but it did not. To form a part of this record, the original record should have been made so by bill of exceptions or otherwise, and as that appears not to have been done, the court ought not to have noticed, or in their decision to have been at all influenced by any thing in that record. On a demurrer to a plea to a scire facias on a recognizance, of bail, neither the recognizance, nor any other part of the record of the original case, is before the court. In deciding upon the demurrer, therefore, though it were admitted to apply to the first plea, the court unquestionably erred in adjudging the recognizance insufficient to maintain the scire facias. And were the demurrer admitted to apply exclusively to the second plea, the error of the court would be still more palpable. Every objection which lies to the judgment when considered in reference to the first plea, would not only apply with equal force when applied to the the second plea, but moreover, the second plea itself is intrinsically bad. By that plea, Bell is alleged to have failed to sue out a capias ad satisfaciendum against Blackwell, for whom Bullitt was special bail, for two years after he had recovered judgment; and it is presumed that by pleading a matter of that sort, Bullitt supposed that after the lapse of two years from the date of the judgment, if in that time no capias ad satisfaciendum issued, there could be no recovery by scire facias against the bail. But according to no principle can such a supposition be indulged. A capias ad satisfaciendum must issue to charge the bail, but there is no law limiting the time in which it must issue to have that effect. Plea to a scire facias on a recognizance of bail, that plaintiff failed for two years to sue out a ca. sa. is nought. A ca. sa. must issue to charge the bail. If, therefore, the demurrer in terms had been made to relate exclusively to the second plea, as that plea contains no sufficient defense to the scire facias the judgment of the court would have been incorrect not only so far as it goes to pronounce the recognizance of special bail invalid, but also in not sustaining the demurrer. Considered then in relation either to the first or second plea, it was evidently incorrect to adjudge the recognizance sufficient to maintain the scire facias. It being uncertain to which plea plaintiff demurred, the good or ill one, and his count being sufficient, and the judgment of the circuit court against it-- the judgment is reversed. *4 But we have said the first plea contains a good defense to the action, and though it may have been incorrect to decide against the validity of the recognizance, it would certainly have been proper to sustain the plea, and as the legal effect of adjudging the plea good would go to defeat the scire facias, the question arises, whether or not the judgment which was rendered by the court, should be reversed at the instance of Bell, who is plaintiff in the scire facias? According to former adjudications of this court, the judgment under such circumstances would not regularly be reversed, if the record contained anything going to show that the demurrer was intended to apply to the first plea only, and was so treated by the court below. But there is nothing in the record from which such an inference can be drawn; on the contrary, as we have already said, it is utterly impossible to collect from the record which plea the demurrer was intended to apply to. It being therefore, uncertain as to which plea the defendant intended to demur, the judgment, which was predicated upon the erroneous notion as to the invalidity of the recognizance of special bail, cannot be sustained by drawing in aid the goodness of the first plea, as to which no question may have been made in the court below. The judgment must consequently be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Mandate. Crittenden, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1826. Bell v. Bullitt 3 T.B.Mon. 200, 19 Ky. 200, 1826 WL 1269 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
