(Cite as: 4 Bibb 557,  7 Ky. 557 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1102 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Dougherty v. Maple and Key. Jun. 4, 1817. *1 A case where the assignor of a bond is discharged from his liability, because the assignees failed to prosecute the demand with due diligence. An assignment from one of two obligors of a bond authorizes the assignees to use the name of the assignor, and such assignment does not excuse their negligence in failing to bring suit. Nor does the circumstance of the other obligee's holding the possession of the bond excuse them, when i?? does not appear that the assignees ever applied to him for it. West Headnotes Assignments 38 k 96 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k95 Rights of Assignee as Against Assignor 38k96 k. Right of Recourse. Most Cited  Cases Upon the assignment of an obligation the law implies an agreement on the part of the assignor to use reasonable diligence to recover of the obligor. Bonds 58 k 87 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k87 k. Rights and Liabilities on Assignment or Sale. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k90) The assignor of a bond is not responsible to the assignee, where there has been unreasonable delay or want of diligence in proceeding against a solvent obligor. Bonds 58 k 122 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k122 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases An assignment by one of two obligees of a bond authorizes the assignee to use the name of the assignor. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. ON the 6th day of June, 1797, Bartlett Bennett executed an obligation binding himself to convey to Michael Dougherty and John Davidson, within eight months, by a general warranty deed, a certain tract of land then situate in Mason county; and by the agreement of Dougherty and Davidson, the obligation was placed in the hands of Davidson for safe keeping. Dougherty afterward sold his interest in the land to Benjamin Maple and James Key, and Davidson having produced the obligation for that purpose, Dougherty, on the 5th July, 1797, by an indorsement on the obligation, assigned his interest in it to Maple and Key. On the 9th of September, 1797, Key sold his part of the land to a certain Vincent Calvin, and by an indorsement on the obligation of that date assigned his interest in the obligation to Calvin. Calvin, in virtue of his purchase from Key, took possession of the land, and without using any effort to obtain a title from Bennett, continued to reside upon the land until he was expelled by suit under an adverse claim; and then, for the first time, applied to Davidson, who seems still to have retained possession of the obligation, for permission to use it in prosecuting a suit against Bennet; and Davidson having delivered him the obligation, though with special injunction for him again to return it, he in 1810 commenced an action of covenant upon the obligation in the name of Dougherty and Davidson, and caused such proceedings to be had therein as ultimately to recover a judgment against Bennet; but owing to the insolvency of Bennet the judgment still remains unsatisfied. *2 Upon ascertaining the judgment could not be satisfied by Bennet, the present suit was brought by Maple and Key, for the purpose of obtaining compensation against Dougherty upon his assignment; and the only question now presented for the consideration of this Court is, do the circumstances thus detailed produce any liability upon Dougherty? Had Dougherty been the only obligee, and by his indorsement assigned the entire demand, and delivered the obligation to Maple and Key, it is admitted that according to the settled doctrine of the law, after such great delay in failing to prosecute suit against Bennet as is shown to have intervened in the present case, that Dougherty could not be made liable upon his assignment; but it is contended that as the assignment is of Dougherty's interest only, it conferred no legal right of suit upon Maple and Key, and hence, it is urged they were not bound, and especially as Davidson, the other obligee, retained the possession of the obligation, they ought not to be required to use diligence in prosecuting the demand against Bennet, before they can have recourse against Dougherty. The doctrine contended for cannot, however, be admitted to prevail: for although Maple and Key may not have gained by the assignment a right to maintain an action at law in their own names, they might in equity have asserted their right to the land; and in that suit, upon ascertaining Bennet could not make an indisputable title, it would have been competent for damages to have been recovered equivalent to what might have been obtained in an action at law; and even at law the assignment gave an authority to Maple and Key to use the name of Dougherty in whatever related to the obligation. Whether, therefore, the case is considered either in relation to a proceeding in chancery or law, no reason is perceived for distinguishing it from the common case of an assignment. In either case Dougherty could have no control; he had parted with his interest in the obligation; he had given up his name to be used by the assignees, and it was with them either to release the obligor Bennet from the demand, or coerce a compliance with the obligation. The failure of Maple and Key, therefore, to prosecute the demand against Bennet with proper diligence, we are of opinion discharged Dougherty from any liability upon his assignment. The circumstance of Davidson, the other obligee, having retained the possession of the obligation, does not change the case. From the nature of the thing but one could possess it, and when Maple and Key obtained the assignment they must have known Davidson held it; and it is not pretended they were ever prevented from using the bond for any purpose whatever. The judgment of the Court below must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and the suit dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1817. Dougherty v. Maple 4 Bibb 557, 7 Ky. 557, 1817 WL 1102 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
