(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 339,  10 Ky. 339 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1085 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jno. Hawkins et al. v. The Com'th for Ward. Apr. 16, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BATH CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 166 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k160 Actions 353k166 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases A person holding a mere equity, such as arises from an indorsement of an execution, cannot sue in his own name on the official bond of the sheriff for a failure to execute and return a fieri facias. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment rendered against the appellees on a bond executed by Hawkins, as sheriff, together with the other appellees, as sureties. The writ issued in the name of the commonwealth, for the use and benefit of Ward; and the declaration, after setting forth the bond and condition, charges a breach in the failure of Hawkins, the sheriff, either by himself or deputy, to execute and due return make of a fieri facias which issued from the clerk's office of Bath county in the name of Nancy Downing, against Thos. D. Owings, & c., and which is alleged to have been endorsed for the use and benefit of Ward, and delivered to the sheriff to be executed. The appellants demurred to the declaration, but the demurrer was overruled, and without further defence, judgment was recovered by the appellee. In a suit on a sheriff's bond, the real plaintiff must have a legal right to sue, and not a mere equity. This court is of opinion, that the demurrer should have been sustained. It should have been sustained, because, we think, the declaration contains no averment from which Ward can be supposed to have sustained such an injury as can authorize an action in his name. It is true, the action is brought in the name of the commonwealth, but the commonwealth is alleged, in the writ, to sue for the use and benefit of Ward. Ward is, therefore, really and substantially the plaintiff in the writ, and to enable him to maintain his action, he must shew such an injury as will authorize him to sustain an action in his own name. There can be no question, but the endorsement, alleged in the declaration to have been made on the execution, can not have transferred the legal right to Ward; it at most passed but an equity, and that equity, according to well settled principles, can not confer upon Ward a legal right to sue in his own name. It is true, the act of the legislature of this country, under which the sheriff's bond was taken, provides, that suit may be prosecuted on a sheriff's bond, by any person who may be injured by a breach of the condition. But the injury alluded to in the act, we apprehend, must be a legal, and not an equitable injury. The remedy given by the act, is not the only remedy which may be resorted to by the person aggrieved.--Without the act, any person for a violation of his legal rights, might sustain an action against the sheriff; and by giving a remedy upon the bond, to those injured by a breach, as the remedy is merely cumulative it can not be supposed that the legislature intended to change the nature of the injury for which an action might be maintained, or to allow those who could not otherwise maintain an action in their own name, to sue upon the bond. *2 The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below and proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Crittenden for appellant, Bibb for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Hawkins v. Commonwealth 3 A.K.Marsh. 339, 10 Ky. 339, 1821 WL 1085 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
