(Cite as: 4 Bibb 399,  7 Ky. 399 (Ky.),  1816 WL 789 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Logan v. Outten. Oct. 11, 1816. *1 That the defendant in an action at law did not know of the removal of the cause by change of venue to another Circuit, is no ground for a Court of Equity to grant a new trial, when it appeared that the writ was executed before the order was granted. and when as a vigilant suitor he might have known whether the suit was depending in the Court in which it was commenced. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 433 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k431 Excuses for Failure to Interpose Defenses 228k433 k. Ignorance of Facts. Most Cited  Cases That defendant in an action at law did not know of the removal of a cause by change of venue to another circuit is not ground for a court of equity to grant a new trial, where the writ was executed before the order was granted. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. OUTTEN, after having commenced an action on the case in the Fayette Circuit Court against Logan, by petition to one of the Circuit Judges obtained a removal of the cause to the Harrison Circuit, where, without any defense having been made, he obtained a judgment for $60, and costs. To be relieved from this judgment, and obtain a new trial in the action at law, Logan exhibited his bill in equity with an injunction; and upon a hearing of the cause in the Court below, his injunction was dissolved and bill dismissed with costs; and to reverse that decree, this writ of error, with supersedeas, has been prosecuted. We are of opinion the ground upon which a new trial was sought, has not been sufficiently manifested to warrant the interposition of a Court of Equity; for it is apparent the writ had been served upon Logan by the sheriff of Fayette before the order of the judge was obtained removing the cause to the Harrison Circuit; and whatever doubts may exist as the correctness of Outten's conduct in procuring that order, it was incumbent upon Logan as a vigilant suitor to know whether or not the cause remained in the Fayette Circuit; and his failure to do so furnishes such pregnant evidence of laches on his part, that a Court of Equity cannot, consistently with the principles upon which it acts, upon the allegation of Logan, that he did not know of the pendency of the suit in Harrison, afford relief. Had the change of venue, as is alleged by Logan, been fraudulently obtained by Outten, and had the judgment been obtained so soon thereafter as to furnish a reasonable presumption that Logan, acting as a vigilant man, might not have discovered the papers were removed from Fayette before the judgment was rendered against him, there might perhaps be some reason for a resort to a Court of Equity; but such does not, however, appear to be the case. The papers were removed from Fayette, and the cause continued so long in Harrison, that Logan, unless guilty of inexcusable negligence, must have known of the removal before judgment. *2 It is true Logan further alleges that he did not know he had been sued by Outten in but one action, and as an apology for not discovering the papers were removed, charges the pendency of another suit in Woodford, which had been commenced against him in Fayette, and at the instance of Outten removed to Woodford. These charges, we do not, however, suppose can justify the interposition of a Court of Equity; for as the writ in the action determined in Harrison, appears to have been served upon Logan, we are compelled judicially to infer he knew the suit had been brought in Fayette. The decree of the Court, below must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Logan v. Outen 4 Bibb 399, 7 Ky. 399, 1816 WL 789 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
