(Cite as: 4 Bibb 178,  7 Ky. 178 (Ky.),  1815 WL 710 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Stern v. Sedden. Oct. 5, 1815. *1 A bill was filed against three, and process issued only against two of the defendants. After many years process issued against the third only (not naming the two former), to answer the bill exhibited "against him and others;" the process is sufficient, although the names of the others were not inserted. Neither does the lapse of time between bill filed, and the issuing of process against the third, vitiate. If a deed by A to B, be fraudulent as to creditors, C, who obtains a voluntary conveyance from B stands in no better condition. And bill brought by the creditor to avoid the deeds, and subject the property to execution, need not allege that C had notice of the fraud. West Headnotes Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 194 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186II Rights and Liabilities of Parties and Purchasers 186II(C) Purchasers from Grantee in General 186k194 k. Rights and Liabilities as to Creditors of  Original Grantor. Most Cited Cases Where a conveyance was fraudulent as to the creditors of the grantor, a third person to whom the land is voluntarily conveyed by the grantee stands in no better condition. Process 313 k 31 313 Process 313I Nature, Issuance, Requisites, and Validity 313k31 k. Direction to or Designation of Parties. Most Cited Cases A bill was filed against three and process issued only against two of the defendants. After many years process issued against the third only to answer the bill exhibited against him and others.  Held, that the process was sufficient, though the names of the others were not inserted. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. SEDDEN having an equitable claim for compensation against Joseph Winlock and John Waller, in 1801 exhibited his bill in equity, setting forth the grounds of his claim against them, and also alleging that Waller, by a colorable and fraudulent conveyance, to defraud his creditors and particularly the complainant, without any valuable consideration, mortgaged nearly all of his property to Stern, by deed of the 15th of November, 1799; and that he in the same fraudulent manner conveyed to said Stern 140 acres of land in Pendleton county, by deed bearing date 11th of May, 1801; and prays a decree against Winlock and Waller for the amount of his demand against them, and asks a cancelment of the deeds, to Stern, so as to subject the property conveyed to his demand against Waller. Process issued against Winlock and Waller shortly after the filing of the bill, but none issued against Stern until 1810; and the process which then issued commanded Stern to appear and answer a bill exhibited against him and others by Sedden, without naming who the others were; and this process having been executed on Stern, and the cause properly prepared for hearing as to Winlock and Waller, and Stern failing to appear and answer the bill, as to him it was taken for confessed, and compensation decreed according to the prayer of the bill against Winlock and Waller, and the deeds from Waller to Stern held fraudulent and decreed to be canceled as to the demand of Sedden. *2 The correctness of the decree against Winlock and Waller is not contested, but Sedden's right as against them is admitted by all parties to be just. Stern, however, not being satisfied with the decree, so far as respects him, has brought the cause before this Court by writ of error; and by the assignment of errors questions the correctness of the proceedings in taking the bill for confessed against him, and also the sufficiency of the allegations to the bill to justify the decree avoiding the deeds of conveyance from Waller to him. The failure to issue process against Stern, from the time of filing the bill in 1801, until 1810, surely cannot vitiate the subsequent proceedings in taking the bill for confessed. By that failure it is admitted Sedden has evinced in a high degree the want of vigilance in the management of his cause; but Stern could not in any possible manner have been damaged thereby; and consequently for that cause he has no just reason to complain. The objection to the sufficiency of the process against Stern, because of its not naming the other defendants against whom the bill was exhibited, cannot avail. Every object intended to be attained by the service of process in chancery, must have been as fully accomplished by the process in this case as though the other defendants had been named. By that process he was notified of the exhibition of a bill against him, and by adverting to that bill he might readily have discovered the cause of complaint with which he was charged; and as Stern failed to appear and answer the bill after the process was regularly served upon him, the order in taking it for confessed was strictly regular. With respect to the sufficiency of the allegations of the bill to warrant a decree against Stern, we entertain no doubt; for if Waller by a colorable and fraudulent deed, with an intent to defraud his creditors, has conveyed his property to Stern without consideration, the conveyance, as to the creditors of Waller, is most indisputably void; and as Sedden appears to be one of that character, the decree avoiding the deed as to his demand is clearly correct. It was not necessary, as was supposed in argument, for the bill to allege Stern had notice of the fraud when he received the conveyance; for as the bill charges the conveyance to be merely voluntary, as to Stern it cannot be material whether he had or had not notice of the fraudulent intention of Waller. The same observations will apply with equal propriety to the deed which was last executed by Waller as to the first; for although the allegations of the bill are not precisely the same in relation to the latter deed as to that of the former, it is plain it was intended, by reference to the previous charge, to allege the execution of the latter to be made under the same colorable and fraudulent circumstances as were charged with respect to the former. The decree of the Court below must, therefore, be affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Stern v. Sedden 4 Bibb 178, 7 Ky. 178, 1815 WL 710 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
