(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 381,  21 Ky. 381 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1570 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Young's Adm'r. v. Lancaster. Oct. 2, 1827. *1 Pleading. Devastavit. Interest. ERROR TO THE TRIGG CIRCUIT; BENJAMIN SHACKLEFORD, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 454 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k454 k. Execution and Enforcement of Judgment. Most Cited Cases Where, in a judgment against an executor for devastavit, interest was computed on the original debt, in an action of debt on such a judgment it was error to give a judgment for running interest on the debt until paid. Executors and Administrators 162 k 454 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k454 k. Execution and Enforcement of Judgment. Most Cited Cases In an action against an executor, suggesting a devastavit, the recovery shall be for the sum of the principal of the original debt, interest, and costs. Judgment 228 k 118 228 Judgment 228IV By Default 228IV(A) Requisites and Validity 228k115 Relief Awarded on Judgment by Default 228k118 k. Amount of Recovery. Most Cited  Cases Where it appears by the matter of the count that the plaintiff is not entitled to recover the sum demanded in the count and declaration, judgment cannot be given by default for the greater sum. Interest 219 k 22(1) 219 Interest 219I Rights and Liabilities in General 219k22 Judgments 219k22(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases In an action on a judgment including interest to the date of its rendition, it is error to allow running interest from the date of the original judgment until paid;  the proper method being to allow damages for detention of the debt and render judgment accordingly. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. The errors relied on, and which exist in this case, relate exclusively to the judgment which was rendered by the court below. The action is debt, upon a judgment suggesting a devastavit, and the judgment was rendered by default. The amount claimed by the writ for debt, is fifty-two dollars and seventy-seven cents; and in that respect the declaration pursues the writ, but in setting out more particularly the cause of action, the declaration shows no right in Lancaster, who was plaintiff in the court below, to demand for debt more than fifty dollars and seventy-seven cents, that being the amount of the judgment, interest and cost, set out in the declaration. The judgment ought not, therefore, to have been rendered for a greater amount of debt than fifty dollars seventy-seven cents, and it was, consequently, erroneous to enter it for fifty-two dollars seventy-seven cents. It appearing by the matter of the count, the plaintiff was not entitled to recover the sum demanded in the commencement of the declaration and count, judgment by default, for such greater sum, held erroneous. *2 It was also erroneous to give judgment for running interest upon the debt, until paid. The interest which had accrued upon the original debt, judgment was rendered for in the original action, and that, together with the cost of that action, is claimed in the declaration, and constitutes part of the debt, for which we have said the judgment in this case should have been rendered. It was, therefore palpably erroneous to make the judgment bear running interest upon the original debt, interest and cost, until they are paid. In an action against an executor suggesting the devastavit, the recovery shall be for the sum of the principal of the original debt, interest and costs, but on that sum there shall not be running interest. The court might, no doubt, have assessed damages for the detention of the debt, and rendered judgment accordingly; but in doing so, more ought not to have been done than to render judgment for the fifty dollars seventy-seven cents debt, and so much damages as the interest upon the debt might amount to, from the date of the original judgment to the time of entering the judgment in this case. Damages might be allowed in such case for the amount of the interest accrued on the judgment from its rendition. The judgment must be reversed, with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and judgment there entered in conformity with the principles of this opinion. Mayes, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. Young's Adm'r v. Lancaster 5 T.B.Mon. 381, 21 Ky. 381, 1827 WL 1570 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
