(Cite as: 4 Bibb 353,  7 Ky. 353 (Ky.),  1816 WL 766 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Edwards' executor v. Taylor, etc. May 20, 1816. *1 Action on sheriff's bond for failing to account for fee bills, taxes, and fines put into the hands of the deputy for collection by the preceding sheriff. The Court have a discretion in receiving pleas in bar, and their decision will not be reversed unless it appears manifestly that they have abused that discretion. A plea should not be rejected because it does not answer immaterial matter charged in the declaration. A sheriff is not bound to receiv?? for collection the delinquent taxes and fines of his predecessor, nor the fees of other officers which remain in his hands uncollected; and the receipt of such taxes and fines by the deputy does not bind the principal and his securities. Plea that the fee bills receipted for were not due to the sheriff for services rendered by him or his deputies in their official character, is a bar. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 157(3) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k157 Accrual or Release of Liability by Breach or Fulfillment of Conditions 353k157(3) k. Acts of Deputies. Most Cited  Cases A sheriff is not bound to receive for collection the delinquent taxes and fines of his predecessor, nor the fees of other officers which remain in his hands uncollected;  and therefore the receipt of such taxes and fines by the deputy does not bind the principal and his sureties. Taxation 371 k 2828 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(K) Collection and Enforcement Against Persons or Personal Property 371III(K)1 In General 371k2828 k. Liabilities on Official Bonds. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 371k568(2)) A sheriff is not bound to receive for collection delinquent tax lists of his predecessor, and the sureties on his bond are not liable for such taxes collected by his deputy. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an appeal from a judgment rendered in favor of the appellees in an action brought by the ancestor of the appellant in his lifetime against them upon a sheriff's bond. The declaration, after setting forth the execution of the bond and condition, charges that the deputy of Taylor, during the continuance of his office of sheriff, by his certain writing, sealed with his seal, etc., acknowledged the receipt of fee bills, taxes, and fines, to the amount of $2261 11 cents, from Edwards, the immediate predecessor of Taylor in office, and bound himself to account therefor according to law; and alleged for breach the failure of Taylor and his deputy to collect and account for the fees, taxes and fines. To this declaration the appellees offered three several pleas in bar; and although they were objected to by the appellant, the Court permitted them to be filed; and demurrers being also filed thereto, the pleas were sustained; and the appellant waiving any right to reply, judgment in bar was entered in favor of the appellees. *2 The Court, in the exercise of a sound discretion, clearly possessed the power to receive the pleas; and as the record presents no abuse of that discretion, the objection taken to their admissions cannot be sustained. With respect to the pleas, we are of opinion they contain substantially a good bar to the action. Although they purport to answer the whole cause of action, they do not, it is true, contain any answer to that part of the complaint which relates to the taxes and fines; but, as we suppose, the charge in relation to those subjects conduces in no manner to a right of action against the sheriff and his securities, the failure to answer it cannot be urged as an objection to the pleas; for although a plea should regularly contain an answer to the whole of the subject matter which it purports to answer, yet when it purports to answer the whole cause of action it cannot be essential that it should answer matter immaterial to the right of action, merely because it may have been charged in the declaration. Were Taylor, the sheriff, bound by the duties of his office to have received those taxes and fines for collection, then as they were receipted for by his deputy, he and his securities would most clearly be liable; and in that case a charge in relation to those subjects would form an essential ingredient in the cause of complaint; but we have been unable to find any law imposing such a duty upon Taylor as sheriff. Had he succeeded his predecessor, Edwards, in consequence of a removal from office, or death, or such like events, he would have been bound to receive and collect such taxes, etc., as might have remained uncollected by him; but as he appears not thus to have succeeded to his office, he according to no law was bound to receive form Edwards taxes and fines for collection; and, consequently, no undertaking of his deputy to that effect can produce a right of action against him and his securities. With respect to the balance of the complaint, the pleas contain an answer by alleging that the fee bills which are charged to have been received by Taylor's deputy were not due Edwards for services rendered by him or his deputies in their official characters. If then those fees were not due for the services of Edwards, or his deputies, he must have held them as a collector, or as the assignee of some other officer; and in either case Taylor was not, according to any law, bound to receive them from him for collection; and if so, the receipt of his deputy, as we have before shown cannot make him liable.--Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. Edwards' Ex'r v. Taylor 4 Bibb 353, 7 Ky. 353, 1816 WL 766 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
