(Cite as: 3 Bibb 246,  6 Ky. 246 (Ky.),  1813 WL 671 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gatewood v. Tunk. Dec. 10, 1813. West Headnotes Marriage 253 k 25(2) 253 Marriage 253k25 Licenses and Licensing Officers 253k25(2) k. Requisites and Validity of License. Most Cited Cases Where persons are married by a minister, the fact that the license was obtained from an improper county does not make the marriage void. Abatement and Revival 2 k 40 2 Abatement and Revival 2III Defects and Objections as to Parties and Proceedings 2k40 k. Necessity and Mode of Making Objection. Most Cited Cases Husband and Wife 205 k 230 205 Husband and Wife 205VI Actions 205k228 Pleading 205k230 k. Defense of Coverture. Most Cited  Cases Where a married woman sues as a feme sole for a slave which she owned before marriage, it is a bar to the action, and a plea in abatement is unnecessary. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS is an action of detinue brought to recover a negro boy named Fayette, by Alse Tunk, the defendant in error, against the plaintiff Gatewood. Non detinet was pleaded and verdict and judgment obtained by Tunk. A motion was made for a new trial, but overruled by the Court. If persons are married by a minister, that the license was obtained from an improper county, does not make the marriage void. If a married woman sue as a feme sole for a slave of which she was possessed before marriage, it is not necessary to plead the marriage in abatement; it is a bar to the action and to her right to recover. Whether, therefore, a new trial should have been granted, is the only inquiry which we deem necessary to a determination of this cause. We are of opinion a new trial should have been granted. The plaintiff in the Court below evidently failed to show any right to the negro at the commencement of the action. It is true when she married William Page the negro may have belonged to her, but by the marriage a right to the negro accrued to Page; and by his subsequent sale, although she may not have had the actual possession at the time of marriage, all her right passed to the purchaser. The circumstance of her residing in Fayette county,?? but being married by a minister under a license which issued from Woodford county, cannot affect the case: for although the license may not have issued in strict conformity with the law, that irregularity does not make void the marriage, or affect the rights of either party to the marriage. The objection that Gatewood should have pleaded the marriage in abatement, is entitled to no weight: for it is clear her marriage with Page, and his sale of the negro, divested her of all right. It does not operate as an abatement of her writ only, but as a bar to her right. There is no evidence in the cause of a fraudulent combination between Page and those claiming under him, to procure the defendant's negroes, as was urged in argument. The record exhibits stronger evidence of a fraudulent design on the part of the defendant, than any other interested in these transactions. The defendant in error having failed to establish her right to the negro, the verdict should have been against her. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for a new trial. Ky.App. 1813. Gatewood v. Tunk 3 Bibb 246, 6 Ky. 246, 1813 WL 671 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
