(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 556,  10 Ky. 556 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1169 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Gray v. Henry Gorin. Jun. 13, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 194 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(A) Rendition, Form, and Requisites in General 228k194 k. Determination of All Issues. Most Cited  Cases Where a defendant pleaded two pleas, the first of which was an answer to the whole declaration and the second to a part only, the plaintiff replied to the first plea, the defendant demurred, the demurrer was overruled, and issue was joined on the second plea and found for the plaintiff, it was held that it was error to give judgment generally for the plaintiff until the issue on the first plea was tried. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was a petition and summons brought by Gorin to recover $302.50 cents, the amount of a promissory note executed by Gray to Gorin. Gray pleaded two pleas--1st, payment generally--2dly, payment of $300 in bar of that much of Gorin's demand. To the first plea Gorin replied generally, that Gray had not paid the debt; and to that replication Gray demurred, and the demurrer was overruled by the court. To the second plea Gorin replied, denying that Gray had paid the $300, as in the said plea alleged. After the demurrer of Gray to Gorin's replication to the first plea was overruled, and no further answer made by Gray to that replication, the court rendered judgment against Gray for $2.50 cents, the residue of Gorin's demand not answered by the second plea, together with the costs of suit. A jury was then called to try issue joined on the second plea; and after a verdict found for Gorin on that issue, another judgment was rendered against Gray for $300, together with the costs of suit. To reverse these judgments, Gray has brought the case to this court. The court, no doubt, decided correctly in overruling the demurrer of Gray to Gorin's replication to the first plea. That replication is in the usual form, and contains every essential allegation to a valid replication. It was, however, incorrect, after overruling that demurrer, to render judgment against Gray for the residue of Gorin's demand not answered by the second plea, and costs of suit, before the issue taken to the second plea was tried. The failure of Gray to answer the whole demand in the second plea, was equivalent to an admission of so much of the demand as was not answered, and if the issue to that plea had been found against Gorin, even were the plea admitted to be good, (and whether it be good or not, is not material to decide), he might nevertheless have taken judgment against Gray for that part of the demand which remained unanswered by the plea; but as by his replication Gorin insisted on his right to recover that part of his demand which was unanswered by the plea also, strictly speaking, judgment should not have been entered in his favor for the amount not answered by the plea, until a trial was had of the issue; and after that issue was found for him, judgment should have been rendered for his entire demand and costs. It is true, although two judgments have been rendered in favor of Gorin, he has not recovered more debt than he appears to be entitled to; but by severing the debt, the judgments do not conform to the action; and as separate executions would have to issue on each judgment, Gray may be subjected to the costs of two, whereas if there had been but one judgment, he could have been liable but for the costs of one execution;--besides Gorin is not entitled to double costs, and he appears to have recovered two separate judgments for the entire costs of suit. *2 If a defendant pleads two pleas, the one traversing the plaintiff's action in toto, the other in part only, on overruling the defendant's demurrer to the plaintiff's declaration, it is irregular to give judgment against him for that part of the demand unanswered to till the issue is tried on the other plea, and then only one judgment should be entered. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and judgment there entered in favor of Gorin for the amount of his debt contained in the petition, together with interest and cost. Crittenden, for appellant; Clay, for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Gray v. Gorin 3 A.K.Marsh. 556, 10 Ky. 556, 1821 WL 1169 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
