(Cite as: 4 Litt. 279,  14 Ky. 279 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1280 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Commonwealth, for the Use of Carswell, v. Gower. Nov. 26, 1823. *1 FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. HENRY DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Prisons 310 k 251 310 Prisons 310II Prisoners and Inmates 310II(F) Duration of Confinement 310k250 Escape 310k251 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 310k16) After the legislature had extended the prison limits, a bond to the jailer to keep within the bounds prescribed by the county court is void, and the jailer, for letting the prisoner go on such a bond, is liable for an escape. Prisons 310 k 251 310 Prisons 310II Prisoners and Inmates 310II(F) Duration of Confinement 310k250 Escape 310k251 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 310k16) The assignment of a jail bond by the jailer to the creditor is not a waiver of the creditor's cause of action against the jailer for an escape. Covenants 108 k 115 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k113 Pleading 108k115 k. Plea or Answer, and Subsequent Pleadings. Most  Cited Cases To a declaration on a deed, setting forth a specific breach, a general plea of performance is insufficient. SWIGERT for plaintiff; TALBOT and SHARP for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Gower, who was appointed jailer by the county court of Franklin, on the 21st of April, 1818, together with Alexander H. Rennick and John Woods his sureties, executed to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, a bond in the penalty of one thousand dollars, conditioned to be void, "if the said Gower shall faithfully execute the office of jailer in said county agreeable to law." To an action on a deed containing general affirmative stipulations, it is competent for the defendant to plead, in general terms, a performance of the covenants. Upon this bond an action of debt was brought against Gower and his sureties, in the name of the Commonwealth, for the use and benefit of Carswell, and after setting out the bond and condition thereto annexed, and after suggesting that a capias ad satisfaciendum issued in favor of Carswell, upon a judgment which he had recovered in the Franklin circuit court, against Charles Sproule, and after charging that the said Sproule was duly arrested by the sheriff under said ca. sa. and delivered into the custody of Gower as jailer, for safekeeping, &c. the declaration, for breach of the condition of the bond, in substance alleges that the said Gower, after receiving into his custody the body of said Sproule, without requiring of him bond and security as required by law, permitted him to have the benefit of the prison rules, and from thence voluntarily permitted him, the said Sproule, to escape, &c. But if the plaintiff, in his declaration, sets out a specific breach, the defendant must respond specifically to such breach. After the legislature had extended the prison bounds to the limits of the town, a bond to the jailer, to keep within the bounds prescribed by the county court, was void. The defendants pleaded eight pleas; to the 1st, 4th, 5th and 6th, the plaintiff demurred, and the demurrer was joined by the defendants. The demurrer was sustained as to the sixth plea, but overruled as to the 1st, 4th and 5th, and judgment in bar of the plaintiff's action rendered by the court. *2 The assignment of errors questions the correctness of the decision of the court in overruling the demurrer to the 1st, 4th and 5th pleas. The assignment of such bond by the jailer to the creditor, and the acceptance of it by the creditor, could not impair his right of action against the jailer. The first plea alleges, in general terms, that Gower has kept and performed his covenants in that behalf, &c. We can not accord with the court below as to the sufficiency of this plea. It will not be denied, but that to an action upon a deed containing general affirmative stipulations, it is competent for the defendant to plead in general terms a performance of the covenants, unless the plaintiff has in his declaration set out a specific breach of the covenant. But where the declaration contains a specific breach, it is incumbent on the defendant to respond specifically to the breach alleged, and not by pleading a general performance of his covenants, protract the pleadings by throwing upon the plaintiff the burthen of again repeating in a replication the breach alleged in his declaration, before the parties can come to an issue. To let a person go out of the prison rules, without giving any bond, or on giving a void bond, is an escape. The 4th and 5th pleas, each, in substance, present the question, whether or not Gower and his sureties are liable under their bond to Carswell for the escape of Sproule from the prison rules, after Sproule had given to Gower a bond with security, containing the following condition: "The condition of the above obligation is such, that whereas the above bound Charles Sproule, has been committed to the custody of the said Stanley P. Gower, jailer in and for the county of Franklin, under an execution in behalf of Samuel Carswell, for nine hundred and twenty-one dollars, eighteen cents debts, and ten dollars and sixteen cents costs, and interest from the third of January, 1819, till paid, which execution was issued from the Franklin circuit court, on the 11th day of March, 1820; and that said Charles Sproule is permitted to have the benefit of the prison rules, upon executing this bond. Now, if the said Charles Sproule shall well and truly keep within the bounds and prison rules laid down by the county court of Franklin county, and not depart and go out of the same until discharged by due course of law, then this obligation to be void; else, to remain in full force and virtue." The bond of which the foregoing is the condition, is alleged in the pleas to have been assigned by Gower to Carswell, immediately after the escape of Sproule from the prison rules; but if, as was contended by the counsel of the plaintiff in argument, the bond is void, the circumstance of its having been assigned to Carswell, can not be admitted to absolve Gower and his sureties from any liability which they would have been otherwise under to Carswell, upon their bond executed to the Commonwealth. For if the bond executed by Sproule be void, its assignment to Carswell can have been of no benefit to him, and although received by Carswell, the bond forms no adequate satisfaction for the injury occasioned by the escape of Sproule. *3 And that the bond of Sproule is void, we apprehend, admits of no serious doubt. Prior to the date of the execution under which Sproule was committed to the custody of Gower, by an act of the legislature of this country, the prison rules in each county were declared to be extended to the limits of each county town in this commonwealth. It was, thefore, after the passage of that act, not incumbent on the county courts to lay down the prison rules for their respective counties; and consequently the condition of Sproule's bond to keep within the bounds and prison rules as laid down by the county court of Franklin county, is a condition repugnant to law, and as such, renders the bond inoperative and void. If, then, the bond of Sproule be void, it results that the court should have sustained the plaintiff's demurrer to the 4th and 5th pleas of the defendants; for it has been heretofore decided by this court that the jailer is liable as for a voluntary escape, after a departure from the limits of the prison rules by a prisoner who is permitted to take the rules without executing any bond; and the principle is the same, and the liability of the jailer must be the same, though a bond be given by the prisoner, if the bond be void. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Com. v. Gower 4 Litt. 279, 14 Ky. 279, 1823 WL 1280 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
