(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 20,  17 Ky. 20 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1468 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Morgan v. Dickerson's Heirs, &c. Oct. 6, 1824. *1 Error, Revivor. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 71 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k71 k. Nature and Necessity. Most Cited  Cases Where a defendant died pending the suit, and the cause was heard and decided without its having been revived in the name of his heirs and representatives, the decree must be reversed. Appeal and Error 30 k 1097(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(M) Subsequent Appeals 30k1097 Former Decision as Law of the Case in  General 30k1097(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The decision of a question on a former appeal is the law of the case on a subsequent appeal in the same case. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This case has been heretofore twice before this court, and the decree which was pronounced by the circuit court, was at each time reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings in the court of original jurisdiction. Principles twice settled, in directing the inferior court in the ultimate decision of a cause, regarded as decisive between one party and the representatives of the other, on its third appearance. By the opinion first delivered by this court, the principles were settled by which the court below was directed to be governed in its ultimate disposition of the cause, and the same principles were again recognized, when the cause was again brought here for decision. Upon the main matter in contest, therefore, the principles heretofore settled must be decisive between the present parties; and if the cause had been so prepared as to authorize a hearing in the court below, we should have no hesitation in sustaining the decree from which the present appeal has been taken. But the cause was not in such a state of preparation. Previous to the hearing in that court, Dickerson appears to have departed this life, and the cause was heard and decided without its having been revived in the name of his heirs and representatives. Decree reversed, for want of revivor in the name of heirs, &c. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and the cause revived in the name of the heirs and legal representatives of Dickerson, and such further orders and decrees then made as may be consistent with the principles of the former opinions of this court. Swigert, for plaintiff; Haggin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Morgan v. Dickerson's Heirs 1 T.B.Mon. 20, 17 Ky. 20, 1824 WL 1468 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
