(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 28,  10 Ky. 28 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1149 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Azariah Roberts et al v. Tolliver Sanders. Nov. 28, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE SCOTT CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 7(3) 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(A) Acquisition of Rights by Prescription in General 20k5 Property Subject to Prescription 20k7 Public Property in  General 20k7(3) k. Public Lands Granted to Individuals.  Most Cited Cases Where an entry is made on a demarked survey before a patent issues thereon, the possessor is in adverse possession to the extent of the lands from the time of the entry. Ejectment 142 k 16 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k16 k. Prior Possession of Plaintiff. Most Cited Cases Where an entry is made on a demarked survey, but before patent issues thereon an elder patentee acquires possession after his right of entry was tolled, he is liable to an ejectment on possession of more than 20 years in the junior patentee. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an ejectment brought by Sanders in the circuit court, for the purpose of recovering a tract of land in the county of Scott, which was in the possession of Azariah Roberts and Tolliver Robinson. The declaration was served upon Roberts and Robinson; and by an order of court, they were admitted defendants in the place of the casual ejector, and on the motion of Rawleigh Colston and Charles Morgan, an order was also made admitting them to defend for, and with the tenants in possession; and thereupon the defendants entered into the consent rule, and pleaded the general issue. Under the instructions of the court, the jury found a verdict for Sanders; and judgment being rendered thereon, in his favor, the defendants appealed to this court. The only questions raised for the decision of this court, grow out of the instructions given by the circuit court to the jury. It appears that as early as 1787, there issued from the commonwealth of Virginia to John Donnel and Charles Morgan, a patent for 3,325 1/2 acres of land, which was proven on the trial to include the land now in contest. And, in 1788, there also issued from the said commonwealth, to John Griffin, a patent for 7,000 acres, which was likewise proven to include the land in contest. It was also proven, that some time after the date of those patents, a certain Robert Sanders entered thereon, not under either of the patents, but claiming under a survey made for himself, and in virtue of which survey, a patent subsequently issued to him, but within less than twenty years before the commencement of the ejectment. The possession so taken by Robert Sanders, was proven to have been held by him to his death, and since then, Sanders, the present plaintiff in the ejectment, claiming under him, continued the possession by himself and tenants until 1818, making a continued adverse possession to both of the patents aforesaid, for upwards of twenty years. That after having so continued the possession, and whilst it was still held by a tenant of Sanders, an ejectment was commenced in the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, in favor of Rawleigh Colston, and notice thereof served upon the ten ant in possession; but without any defence being made, and for aught that appears on the present record, without any notice being given to Sanders, the landlord, or his having any knowledge of the ejectment having been brought, judgment was rendered against the casual ejector by default, and in virtue of a writ of habere facias possessionem, which issued thereon, the tenant of Sanders was turned out of possession, and the possession delivered to Colston; and from that time to the present the possession has continued in Colston, and those claiming under him. All of the patents aforesaid, together with the record of the ejectment in the circuit court of the United States. were given in evidence, and the evidence being closed on both sides, the court instructed the jury, that although the patent of Sanders did not issue twenty years before the possession was obtained by Colston under the judgment in his favor yet if they should believe, from the evidence, that those under whom Sanders claims originally entered,claiming to the boundaries, or demarkations of the boundaries of Sanders' survey, and continued to claim and hold the possession thereof for twenty years before the commencement of Colston's ejectment, the possession so gained and continued was sufficient to authorize Sander to recover, notwithstanding the recovery by Colston in the ejectment, and notwithstanding the patent of Griffin, and that of Morgan and Donnel. *2 If an entry be made on a demarked survey, but before patent issues thereon, the possessor is in to the extent of the lands, and the limitation runs from the entry, and is not confined to the date of the patent. Assuming the existence of those facts, upon which the instructions of the court were hypothecated, no plausible objection can be perceived against Sanders' right to recover. Upon that supposition, Sanders and those through whom he claims, must be admitted to have held a continued adverse possession of the land in contest for more than twenty years, under color of title; and it is well settled, that such a possession not only tolls or bars any right of entry which others, laboring under no disability, may have had in the land whilst it was so possessed, but that it moreover confers, upon the person possessed, a perfect right of entry. To create such a possession, it was not necessary, as seems to be supposed by the counsel for the appellants, that Sanders should either have had a patent for the land when the possession was first taken, or that there should have been a continued possession for twenty years after his patent issued. Without a patent Sanders may, by his entry, have ousted the patentees, Donnel and Morgan, to whom the commonwealth had previously granted the land, and by continuing the possession so gained by his entry, claiming title to the boundaries of his survey, the patentees, Morgan and Donnel, could not, after the expiration of twenty years, have legally entered upon the land; and any possession, which destroys the right of others, of necessity confers that right upon the possessor. An elder patentee, acquiring possession of premises so held, but after his right of entry was tolled, is liable to an ejectment on the possession of more than 20 years in the junior patentee. If, therefore, we are correct in supposing Sanders, by his possession gained a right of entry in the land, it follows that he cannot be prevented from recovering by reason of anything contained, either in the patent to Donnel and Morgan, or that to Griffin, or by the recovery of Colston in the circuit court of the United States. If Morgan had not been admitted to defend, it is perfectly clear that the patent to him and Donnel could not have been an availing defence for the other defendants; for it could then have been used barely as an outstanding title in them, and we have already seen that it is not a subsisting title. Nor do we suppose the circumstance of Morgan being a defendant, can change the case. He is not shown to have ever been in possession of the land; nor does there appear to exist any privity between him and those in possession. His patent, therefore, cannot be viewed as conferring upon him more than a naked title of entry, and that was destroyed by the possession of Sanders. And with respect to the patent of Griffin, it is impossible to perceive any bearing it can have against Sanders; for there was not only an adverse possession for twenty years against it, as well as that of Donnel and Morgan, but it appears, moreover, to have issued subsequent to theirs. *3 Nor can we perceive any effect which the recovery of Colston can have in the present contest. Sanders was no party to that suit; and there is no evidence in this cause conducing to prove title in Colston. The record of that case is competent to prove the manner Colston obtained possession of the land, but it is clearly inadmissible to disprove Sanders' right of entry. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Haggin for appellant. Ky.App. 1820. Roberts v. Sanders 3 A.K.Marsh. 28, 10 Ky. 28, 1820 WL 1149 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
