(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 223,  19 Ky. 223 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1277 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Leathers' Representatives v. M'Glasson. May 26, 1826. *1 Abatement. Pleading. Former Suit Pending. Demand. Executors. Heirs. Judgments. Error. Costs. APPEAL FROM THE BOONE CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 453(2) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k453 Judgment 162k453(2) k. Rendition, Form, and Requisites. Most Cited  Cases Judgment against executors and heirs ought to be thus:  "To be levied of the assets in the hands of the executors, if sufficient;  if not, then of the assets descended to the heirs." Debt, Action Of 117G k 11 117G Debt, Action Of 117Gk10 Pleading 117Gk11 k. Declaration. Most Cited Cases The declaration in debt against executors and administrators, on the contract of the decedent, may be in the debet and detinet. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action of debt brought by William M'Glasson, assignee of John Arnold, against the heirs and administrators of Benjamin Leathers, deceased, upon a note executed by the decedent, in his lifetime, to John Arnold for six hundred dollars. Action by M'Glasson, assignee of Arnold vs. the heirs and administrators of Leathers. Two pleas were filed by the defendants. To the first plea M'Glasson demurred, and the defendants joined in the demurrer. The demurrer was sustained by the court, and the defendants failing further to answer, but desiring to withdraw their second plea, were permitted to do so by the court, and judgment was thereupon rendered in favor of the plaintiff M'Glasson, for the amount of his debt, &c. Defendants' pleas, demurrer and judgment. From that judgment the defendants appealed. It is first objected against the judgment, that the court erred in sustaining the demurrer to the first plea. The object of that plea appears to have been to rely upon the pendency of another action for the same cause when this suit was commenced, as forming a good defense to a recovery in the present case. It is not, however, necessary that we should enter minutely into an examination of the plea, and discuss every possible objection that might be taken to it. It is sufficient to remark, that the matter of the plea could only be pleaded in abatement; and tested by the acknowledged rules of pleading, the plea of the defendants can not be denominated one of that character. Former suit pending can be pleaded only in abatement. The plea commences in bar, and not in abatement, and it is well settled that, if a plea begins in bar, though it contains only matter of abatement, it will be considered a plea in bar, and final judgment shall be given. 2 Saund. 209, a. n. 1 Littell's Sel. Cas. 270. Plea commencing in bar, tho' containing matter in abatement only is in bar, and there shall be final judgment on it. But conceding the insufficiency of the plea, it is further objected that the demurrer should not have been sustained. 1st, because the declaration is in the debet and detinet; and 2d, because the declaration contains no special averment of a demand. *2 At common law, debt by or against an executor, on contract of the testator, was in the detinet only, not debet and detinet; and an error in this was once fatal on general demurrer. Not so now; by the statutes of England, re-enacted in Virginia, and made law here, the objection does not lie. At common law, whether the action be by or against an administrator, upon a contract made by the intestate, the declaration ought regularly to be in the detinet only; and authorities might be cited to prove, that it was anciently held to be a substantial error, for such actions to be in the debet and detinet. But under the statute of 16 and 17 Car. 2, the error has been held in England to be aided after verdict; and by the statutes of 4 and 5 Ann. C. 16, on general demurrer. Com. Dig. Pleader 2 Dig. 1, 2, L. Ray. 1391. By an act of the Virginia Legislature of 1753, those statutes of England were declared to be in force there, and after the separation from Virginia, were adopted by the Legislature of this State; so that in deciding upon the demurrer to the plea, though it was incumbent upon the court to travel back and examine the sufficiency of the declaration, it was unquestionably correct not to regard any defects in the declaration which, under the laws in force in this country, are not available upon a general demurrer. The first objection to the declaration, can not, therefore, be sustained. The second objection is equally untenable. The declaration, it is true, contains no averment of a special demand, nor was such an averment necessary. The note upon which the action is founded, stipulates to pay upon demand; but it is for the payment of money, and according to the settled doctrine of the law, the commencement of the action is in itself a sufficient demand; whether the action be brought against the maker of the note in his lifetime, or against his legal representatives after his decease. No demand is necessary before suit on an obligation payable on demand, whether against the party himself or his representatives. It results, therefore, that the court decided correctly in sustaining the demurrer to the first plea. The judgment of the court, should, however, have been different from that which was rendered. The plea to which the demurrer was sustained being, as we have already remarked, a plea in bar, and not in abatement, it was doubtless correct to enter final judgment, but it was evidently erroneous to enter the judgment against the personal representatives and heirs of the intestate in their personal right. The judgment ought regularly to have been against them in their representative character, first to be levied of the goods and chattels which were of the estate of the intestate at the time of his death, and which had come to the hands of the administrators to be administered, and in case of the failure of the plaintiff in the court below, to make the amount out of the goods and chattels, secondly to be levied of the estate of the intestate to his heirs descended. *3 Judgment against the executors and heirs is thus--to be levied of the assets in the hands of the executors, if sufficient--if not, then the assets descended to the heirs. The judgment must, consequently, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and judgment there entered in conformity to the principles of this opinion. Todd and Triplett, for appellants; Mayes, for appellee. Ky.App. 1826. Leather's Representatives v. McGlasson 3 T.B.Mon. 223, 19 Ky. 223, 1826 WL 1277 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
