(Cite as: 4 Litt. 263,  14 Ky. 263 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1272 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Coons, &c. v. Nall's Heirs, &c. Nov. 25, 1823. *1 FROM THE SCOTT CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. WILLIAM WARREN SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 41 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k41 k. Rents and Profits. Most Cited  Cases Descent and Distribution 124 k 79 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(A) Nature and Establishment of Rights in General 124k79 k. Rents and Profits, Income, and Accumulations. Most  Cited Cases A suit for rents and profits of a dower estate must be brought in the name of the personal representative of the dowress, and cannot be brought by her heirs. Executors and Administrators 162 k 43 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k43 k. Personal Property in General. Most Cited  Cases The personalty of the deceased goes to the administrator, and not to the heir. HAGGIN for plaintiffs; CRITTENDEN for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Mrs. Nall, the widow of Martin Nall, deceased, in her lifetime exhibited her bill in equity against the present defendants, for the purpose of recovering dower in the lands of which she alleged her deceased husband was seized during her coverture, and which had come to the possession of part of the defendants. The bill was pending many years, and before it was finally disposed of in the court of original jurisdiction, Mrs. Nall, the complainant, departed this life. No suit will lie in behalf of the heirs of a doweress, for the rents and profits of a dower estate, although it is alleged that no will was made or administration granted; the right of action is in the personal representatives. After her death, the present plaintiffs, who are the children of Mrs. Nall, exhibited this bill for the twofold purpose, 1st, to obtain an account and decree for the rents and profits of the land of which they allege their mother was dowable, and for the recovery of which she brought suit, in her lifetime, but before her right was determined she departed this life; 2d, to recover their distributive share of the personal estate of their deceased brother, Charles Nall, which they allege has come to the possession of part of the appellees, and of which they charge they are entitled to a proportion, as brothers and sisters of the half blood on the part of the mother. A recovery by the heirs would not bar a suit by the personal representatives, if any should thereafter be appointed. The bill alleges, that no administration has been granted on the estate of the plaintiffs' deceased mother; but no suggestion is made as to any administration on the estate of their deceased brother. *2 A suit for an account of the personal estate of the ancestor, must be brought by his personal representatives, not by the heirs. The court below pronounced a decree dismissing the complainants' bill, &c. We have not deemed it necessary or proper, to go into the inquiry, whether or not Mrs. Nall, the mother of the plaintiffs, was entitled to dower in the lands to which she asserted claim, in the bill exhibited by her against the defendants. Such an inquiry might have been necessary, if the plaintiffs had shown themselves entitled to call the defendants to an account for the rents and profits of the lands of which they are possessed, and of which the plaintiffs' mother was dowable; but this they have failed to show. We are aware, that cases are to be found, where courts of equity have decreed an account of the rents and profits of land, of which a widow was dowable, though her right to dower was not established in her lifetime; but in no case has the decree been made in favor of the heir of the widow. The demand for rents and profits, is, in its nature, personal, and wherever it is recoverable, the recovery must be by the representative of the personal estate, and not by the heir. The heir may be entitled to a distributive interest in the demand for rents, &c.; but that is an interest in the residue after the decedent's debts are paid; and it is to that representative, whose duty it is to collect the debts owing to the estate and pay the demands against it, that the heir must have recourse for the distributive surplus. Were it, therefore, conceded that the defendants are liable for the rents and profits of the land, (but of which we give no opinion,) their liability must be to the personal representative of Mrs. Nall, and not to the plaintiffs. It is true, the bill alleges that no administration has been granted on the estate of Mrs. Nall, and, consequently, there is no personal representative by whom the demand can be asserted against the defendants. But notwithstanding administration may not as yet have been granted, it may hereafter be granted, and any decision which might now be made between the present parties, would not include the personal representative, if such a representative should hereafter assert claim for the rents, &c. It was correct, therefore, in the court below, to dismiss the plaintiffs' bill, so far as it goes for an account of the rents, &c. And as respects the claim asserted for a distributive proportion of the personal estate of Charles Nall. deceased, the same observations equally apply, and show that his personal representative, and not his heirs, are entitled to demand of the defendants the estate of Charles Nall, which has come to their possession. The decree must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Coons v. Nall's Heirs 4 Litt. 263, 14 Ky. 263, 1823 WL 1272 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
