(Cite as: 2 Bibb 591,  5 Ky. 591 (Ky.),  1812 WL 639 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. North v. Cates. Spring Term, 1812. *1 Possession in the plaintiff is sufficient to maintain an action of trespass or of case, against one who hath no title. In action sounding in damages, a new trial ought not to be granted for excessive damages, unless they appear outrageous at first blush--Acc. vol. i, Wickliffe v. Payne, 418--Warford v. Isbell, 249. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 76(1) 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(F) Verdict or Findings Contrary to Law or Evidence 275k76 Excessive Damages 275k76(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases In cases where there is no legal measure of damages, a verdict is not to be set aside for excessive damages, unless it be flagrantly excessive. Action on the Case 14 k 1 14 Action on the Case 14k1 k. Nature and Grounds of Action. Most Cited Cases An action upon the case is a proper remedy for an injury that is consequential upon the act of the defendant. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. Judge WALLACE absent. THIS is an action on the case brought by Cates against North, in the Christian Circuit Court. The declaration in substance charges, that Cates had been for a long time, and still was possessed of a certain tract of land, messuage and cottage, with all its appurtenances, in the county of Christian, upon which he, Cates, had made 140 pannels of fence, of the value of one hundred dollars; that the said North, well knowing the premises, but contriving and maliciously intending, etc. whilst he Cates, was so possessed thereof, caused and directed a certain negro man in his possession and under his direction and control, to set fire to the barrens, which said negro, whilst so under the direction and control of North, did carelessly and negligently set fire to the barrens close to said Cates' fence, which fire communicated to the fence aforesaid, and burnt up _____ panels thereof, whereby Cates lost the fence, had his crop and inclosed ground exposed to hogs, horses, and cattle, etc. North pleaded, 1st, not guilty; 2d, that Cates at the time of the trespass and injury in the declaration mentioned, had nothing in the tract of land, messauge and cottage mentioned, etc.; 3d, that without malice or negligence, he did well and honestly set fire to the grass on his own ground, as well and truly and legally, by the law of the land and the custom of the country, he might do. To the first plea issue was joined; to the second and third pleas there were special demurrers, and judgment awarded thereon in favor of Cates. On the trial of the issue North offered to give in evidence, and prove that Cates had no title, nor any right of possession to the land on which the trespass is charged to have been committed; but that the title was in William Daniel or some other stranger; and that Cates had only the naked possession and was a mere intruder, and had built the fence about two years previous to the burning; but the admission of the evidence was rejected by the Court. Cates recovered a verdict for seventy dollars. A new trial was applied for by North, on the grounds, 1st, that the verdict was contrary to evidence; 2d, that the damages were excessive; 3d, that the Court erred in rejecting the evidence offered by North. The application was overruled by the Court, and the evidence given on the trial made a part of the record. *2 The first inquiry proper for the consideration of this Court is, whether the declaration contains any cause of action; and if it does, whether the Court decided correctly in rejecting the evidence offered by North? In actions for trespass committed on land, possession is sufficient against a wrongdoer; and where the plaintiff declares on his possession, and the defendant in his plea makes title, it is sufficient for the plaintiff in his replication to traverse the defendant's title, without setting up any title in himself--2 Stra. 1238, Bull. N. P. 93, Esp. N. P. 409. The disseisee of land cannot maintain an action of trespass for an injury done thereto, between the time of desseisin and re-entry. Only the person who has the possession in fact of the real property to which an injury has been done, can maintain an action of trespass, etc.--6 Bac. 566. From these authorities it seems evident that in actions of trespass, it is not necessary for the plaintiff in his declaration to allege title, nor in such cases would it be sufficient for the defendant to traverse the title of the plaintiff, but he should show either a title in himself, or some other under whose authority he entered. The circumstance of the injury complained of in this case being consequential, and not immediate, can produce no effect on the right of Cates to have redress for the injury, or the liability of North to make reparation; it affects the mode of action only, and not the rights of the parties. In both cases the injury is the same, and in actions on the case (as well as trespass) the plaintiff in his declaration need not state title in himself, for possession is sufficient in such case against a wrongdoer, and the title being only inducement cannot be traversed, except the defendant sets up a title in himself and justifies--4 Mod. 424, Esp. N. P. 652. We think therefore, the declaration contains a sufficient cause of action; and that the Court decided correctly in rejecting the evidence offered by North, to prove title in a stranger. Whether an intruder on the lands of the Commonwealth acquires such an interest for which he can maintain an action against a trespasser, need not be decided, inasmuch as the evidence offered by North was not to prove a title in the Commonwealth, but in a stranger. Perhaps such a case would be governed by different rules, as it is said an intruder cannot gain such a possession against the King in England, upon which he can have an action of trespass--2 Plow. Com. 546. We would however not be understood as giving any opinion on that point. If we are correct in the position, that possession alone is sufficient to maintain an action against a wrongdoer, the Court certainly decided correctly in sustaining the demurrer of Cates to the second plea of North. The third plea is also insufficient; it contains no answer to the allegations in the declaration; it contains no averment that the setting fire in the plea mentioned is the same complained of by Cates in his declaration; besides, it states no fact which was not properly admissible as evidence, under the plea of not guilty. *3 The only remaining question for consideration is, whether a new trial should have been granted, because of the excessiveness of damages? In actions of this description, the damages ought not to be weighed in a nice balance, but must be such as appear at first blush to be ou??trageous, and indicate passion or partiality in the jury, to authorize the granting a new trial. This does not appear to be a case of that description; we cannot say the damages are excessive; the Court therefore acted correctly in refusing to grant a new trial. Judgment affirmed, with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1812. North v. Cates 2 Bibb 591, 5 Ky. 591, 1812 WL 639 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
