(Cite as: 4 Bibb 417,  7 Ky. 417 (Ky.),  1816 WL 802 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Outen v. Bainbridge. Oct. 17, 1816. *1 If a party wants a discovery to be used in a trial at law, he must exhibit his bill of discovery in equity. A Court of Law cannot rule a party to answer interrogatories in the progress of the trial. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 24 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(A) Discovery in General 307Ak24 k. Discovery methods and procedure. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 127k1  Discovery) In an action at law, it is proper to refuse a party the right to examine the adverse party by interrogatories during the trial, since the party should have exhibited his bill in the ordinary mode for a discovery. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. BAINBRIDGE having obtained a judgment against Outen before a justice of the peace, Outen by an appeal brought the case to the Circuit Court; and, upon a trial there, Bainbridge again recovered a judgment: and to reverse that judgment, Outen has brought the case before this Court by writ of error. Upon the trial in the Circuit Court, for the purpose of proving matter in avoidence of Bainbridge's demand, Outen's counsel called upon Bainbridge to answer certain interrogatories; but upon the counsel of Bainbridge objecting, the Court refused to compel him to answer: and whether Bainbridge should have been compelled to answer, is the first question for our determination. We have no hesitation in deciding this question in the negative. If a discovery from Bainbridge was necessary to Outen's defense, he ought to have exhibited his bill in the ordinary mode for a discovery; but as he failed to do so, the Court properly refused an examination by interrogatory during the trial. Bainbridge having on the trial produced an account containing various items against Outen, and having introduced witnesses for the purpose of establishing it, when the jury was about to withdraw from the bar to consult of their verdict, Outen objected against their taking with them the account; but his objection was overruled: and the next inquiry is, should the jury have been permitted to take with them the account? We are unable to perceive any solid objection against the propriety of permitting the jury to take the account, As evidence per se, the account was clearly inadmissible; and if it had been permitted to be used by the jury for that purpose, we should have no hesitation in sustaining the objection: but as evidence had been introduced for the purpose of establishing the items of the account, to enable the jury to make their estimates, it may have been not only necessary, but was certainly proper, to permit them to use the account. For that purpose therefore, the Court did right in allowing the jury to take with them the account. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Outen v. Bainbridge 4 Bibb 417, 7 Ky. 417, 1816 WL 802 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
