(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 555,  8 Ky. 555 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1080 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Presley Talbot v. Jacob Brockman. Jun. 7, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE GRAYSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 8 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k3 Grounds 42k8 k. Tort. Most Cited Cases Assumpsit will not lie for a misrepresentation of the condition of property. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment recovered by Brockman, in an action prosecuted by him against Talbot in the court below. Two question are made by the assignment of errors. The first involves an inquiry into the sufficiency of the declaration. And the second contests the propriety of the decision of that court in overruling Talbot's motion for a new trial. The declaration is questioned upon the ground of its containing two substantive causes of action, one in tort and the other in contract. We are, however, of opinion, the declaration can not be construed to contain two such causes of action. A misrepresentation of the condition of property is a tort, and will not sustain assumpsit on the implied undertaking. Vide  8 Ky. 435, pa. 435, Carstarphen v. Graves, ac. The first count is, most clearly, in tort; and with respect to the other count, it might be questioned, whether it contains any cause of action, but if any, we are of opinion, it must be construed to be in tort, and not assumpsit. And upon the supposition of the action being founded upon tort, there can be no doubt, but the court decided correctly in overruling Talbot's motion for a new trial. The evidence clearly conduced to prove a fraudulent misrepresentation, by Talbot, of the health and condition of the negro child for which the action seems to have been brought. And the jury, whose province it was to weigh and decide upon the evidence, having found a verdict against Talbot, we are unable to perceive any thing in the record from which this court, contrary to the opinion of the circuit court, can be authorized to interfere and award a new trial. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Wickliffe, for appellant. Ky.App. 1819. Talbot v. Brockman 1 A.K.Marsh. 555, 8 Ky. 555, 1819 WL 1080 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
