(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 293,  19 Ky. 293 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1299 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mason &c. v. Anderson. Oct. 9, 1826. *1 Continuance. Practice. Process. Attachments. Amendments. Sheriff's Return. ERROR TO THE BATH CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Attachment 44 k 324 44 Attachment 44X Return 44k324 k. Amendment. Most Cited Cases A sheriff may amend his return on an attachment, so as to show that the effects attached were the property of defendant, as well before as after judgment, and at a subsquent term. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 724 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIV Continuance 307Ak723 Motion and Proceedings Thereon 307Ak724 k. Affidavits and evidence. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 94k46(1)  Continuance) An affidavit of a party, made some days before the day of trial, that his presence will be necessary to the attainment of justice, and that he is apprehensive, owing to ill health, that he cannot be at court, and that there are persons by whom the material facts of his defense may be established, is insufficient. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 724 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIV Continuance 307Ak723 Motion and Proceedings Thereon 307Ak724 k. Affidavits and evidence. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 94k48  Continuance) Affidavits for a continuance are construed strictly, and most strongly against the applicant, as the facts are within his knowledge, and he is presumed to make a statement as favorable to his views as the truth will warrant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement. The judgment to which this writ of error is prosecuted, was recovered by Anderson, in an action of covenant brought by him against John T. Mason, Richard M. James and Cave Johnson. When the cause was called in the court below, a motion was made by the counsel of Mason, in his absence, for a continuance, but the motion was overruled and exceptions taken to the opinion of the court. The first question that will therefore, be noticed, involves the correctness of the refusal of that court to continue the cause. Motion for a continuance overruled. The motion was predicated upon an affidavit made by Mason some days before the trial, and which was sent by him to the court. In the affidavit, he states that his presence at the trial would be necessary to the attainment of justice, and that he was apprehensive, owing to his ill health, he could not be at court when the cause should be called, but there is nothing in the affidavit calculated to shew, that notwithstanding he was then indisposed, he might not have attended the trial without endangering his health, nor that he had employed the proper and necessary diligence in preparing for his defense, though he states there are persons by whom the material facts of his defense may be established. On a motion for continuance, affidavit of party made some days before, that he believed his presence necessary for the attainment of justice, that he apprehended, owing to ill health he could not attend, and that he had material witnesses, is not sufficient. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that in deciding upon the sufficiency of an affidavit for a continuance, no presumption favorable to the applicant is to be indulged. The facts upon which he intends to rest his application, must be within his knowledge, and it is not to be supposed, that in his affidavit he would omit any thing favorable to himself, and which might in truth be stated; it is more natural to presume that he would make the best of his case, and state every thing calculated to effect a continuance. The statements contained in such an affidavit should, therefore, be construed most strongly against the applicant. But giving ??o the affidavit of Mason that construction which it most obviously imports, we can have no hesitation in saying, that the court below was correct in refusing to continue the cause. *2 In deciding on an affidavit for a continuance, no presumption favorable to the applicant is to be indulged____ It should be construed most strongly against the applicant. The next question for consideration controverts the correctness of an instruction which was given by the court to the jury in the progress of the trial. The action is founded upon a covenant for the payment of one thousand dollars, in bar iron, on a named day, and by the instruction complained of, the jury were told by the court, that it was within their discretion to give interest by way of damages. This opinion of the court is unquestionably as favorable to the defendants in that court, as it should have been. The amount of damages to be recovered, was to be assessed by the jury, and upon no legal principles could the court have given an instruction more favorable to the defendants than to leave the jury at liberty, either to give or withhold interest, in fixing the amount of damages. Instruction to the jury, in an action on a covenant for iron on a named day, that it was, in their discretion to include interest or not, can not be complained of by defendant. There appears to have been no actual service of process upon the defendant James Johnson, but after the proper return upon the capias as to him, an attachment issued against his estate, and it was upon the return made by the sheriff on that attachment, without his having entered an appearance, that the trial was had and judgment recovered. After the proper return on the capias, an attachment against the estate may go, which being levied on defendant's property, judgment may be taken. See 1 Monroe. The next question, therefore, made by the assignment of errors involves the enquiry, whether or not the return made by the sheriff upon the attachment authorized the judgment in favor of Anderson. The return, as originally made, undoubtedly did not. That return contained no statement, that the property attached belonged to James Johnson, against whom the attachment issued, and without such a statement, the return upon an attachment was held insufficient in the case of Irons v. Allen Har. R. 44. It must appear by the officer's return on the attachment, that the property seized belonged to defendant. But since the judgment was rendered, the sheriff obtained leave from the court below, and amended his return, so that as the record now stands, the objection to the return is removed, if it be competent under the leave of the court, given at a term subsequent to rendering judgment, for an amendment of the sort to be made by the sheriff. No principle of practice is better settled, and none more frequently acted upon, than that which allows an officer, after he has made a return upon process, but before judgment, to supply any omission in his return by an amendment, and we perceive no reason, and know of no law, that even after judgment, forbids such amendments in support of a judgment. Sheriff may amend his return on an attachment or other process as well after as before judgment--and at a subsequent term. *3 But at the term the judgment was rendered no order was made by the court in relation to the attached effects, and the next question made controverts the correctness of the judgment on that ground. We do not, however, admit, that an omission of that sort forms any cause for reversing the judgment. It was decided in the case of Craig v. Saven, Har. R. 46, to be erroneous to issue an execution upon a judgment founded upon an attachment without first having legally disposed of the attached effects, and that the decision appears to be supported by the provisions of the Act of Assembly upon that subject. But were it even necessary to a disposition of the attached effects, that an order of court should be made, the omission to make such an order, could not, we apprehend vitiate the judgment--it might, under the decision to which we have referred, until made, suspend the perfect execution of the judgment, but the judgment would, nevertheless be correct. We are not, however, prepared to admit that any order of court is necessary to authorize a disposition of the attached effects. The officer derives his authority to attach the effects from the attachment, and according to the plain import of the act of assembly upon that subject, it becomes his duty, after judgment is recovered by the plaintiff, without further process or directions from the court, to sell the attached effects in the same manner that he would be bound to sell goods taken by a fieri facias. An order of court disposing of the attached effects, is not necessary, either before or after judgment, for the statute is, the sheriff shall, after judgment, sell them as on a fi. fa. The judgment must be affirmed, with cost and damages. Costs and damages. Triplett, for plaintiffs; Jas. Trimble, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Mason v. Anderson 3 T.B.Mon. 293, 19 Ky. 293, 1826 WL 1299 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
