(Cite as: 3 Bibb 96,  6 Ky. 96 (Ky.),  1813 WL 613 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Prior v. Lucas. Jun. 29, 1813. West Headnotes Debt, Action Of 117G k 19 117G Debt, Action Of 117Gk19 k. Judgment. Most Cited Cases A verdict and judgment in damages, where the action is in debt, is erroneous. Gaming and Lotteries 188 k 285 188 Gaming and Lotteries 188II Rights and Remedies of Parties 188k283 Actions 188k285 k. Nature and form of remedy. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 188k41) An action to recover property lost at betting should be qui tam, and not debt. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. The Chief Justice absent. *1 LUCAS having lost at a horse race and paid to Prior two horses, at the price of one hundred dollars, and fifty dollars in cash, brought an action of debt, and recovered judgment for one hundred and fifty dollars debt, and damages, etc., against Prior; from which judgment this writ of error has been prosecuted. To recover a horse betted and lost, the action of debt is not proper. The person losing property cannot maintain an action for the recovery to his own use, but must sue qui tam. The declaration should contain averments showing a forfeiture of the property. An action qui tam will lie to recover property which shall be staked or betted, one half to the informer, the other to the county. Whether the proceedings in this cause are considered to have been had under the act of 1798, or that of 1799, to suppress the practice of gaming, etc., the judgment is evidently erroneous. By the act of 1798, the person losing and paying property lost, etc., or any other person, may, by an action of debt, if brought within three months, recover the thing lost. It is obvious that under this act the thing lost is to be recovered in specie; and although the action of debt is given, the judgment should conform to the mode of entering judgments in ordinary cases where the thing in specie is sued for and recovered; as in debt, where money alone is lost and sued for; and as in detinue, where property is the subject in contest. If, therefore, this cause was prosecuted under the act of 1798, it was evidently erroneous to award judgment for one hundred and fifty dollars. But it is conceived that part of the act of 1798, which authorizes a recovery of the thing lost for the use of the person suing, is repealed by the act of 1799. The 4th section of this act provides that all moneys or other property which shall be staked or betted on any occasion whatsoever, shall be forfeited; and any person having the same in possession, whether he may have lost or won or obtained it by any other means, shall be compellable to pay the same by suit in any Court having competent jurisdiction, and may be recovered by any person suing for the same, one-half to the use of the person suing, and the other half in aid of the county levy. And although this act contains no repealing clause, there exists a manifest repugnance between its provisions and that of the act of 1798. In such a case the former law gives way to the latter, and so far as both cannot stand together the latter operates a repeal of the former. To permit a recovery by the person losing property to his own use, would be a direct violation of the provision of the act of 1799, authorizing a recovery against any person in whose possession the property may be, for the use of the person suing and in aid of the county levy. The proceedings, therefore, to recover money or property lost at games, etc., should be had under the latter of these acts; and, as was decided by this Court, fall term, 1811, in the case of Russell & Davidson v. Blunt, the declaration and judgment should be qui tam, for the use of the informer and in aid of the county levy. *2 Various other objections are taken to the declaration, none of which are necessary to be decided: it may not, however, be improper to observe, that the declaration should contain all power and necessary averments showing a forfeiture of the money and property said to be lost at play, and the liability of the defendant in the Court below to the action. The judgment must be reversed with costs; the cause remanded to that Court, and the plaintiff in that Court have leave to amend his declaration, if he should apply for leave to do so, or upon his failure the suit to be dismissed. Ky.App. 1813. Prior v. Lucas 3 Bibb 96, 6 Ky. 96, 1813 WL 613 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
