(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 521,  10 Ky. 521 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1157 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Spencer Reed v. Eli Williams. Jun. 10, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 19 161 Execution 161I Nature and Essentials in General 161k19 k. Simultaneous and Successive Executions. Most Cited Cases Where an abortive execution has issued, the plaintiff may sue out another without a scire facias, though more than a year has passed since the judgment. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: At the April term, 1817, of the Montgomery circuit court, Reed recovered, against Williams, judgement of restitution for the land now in contest; and on the 25th of April, in the year, caused to be issued from the clerk's office of that court, a writ of execution, directed to the sheriff of that county, commanding him to restore the possesion to Reed. The sheriff accordingly, on the 21st of the same month, delivered the possession to Reed, and at the April term, 1819, of said court, the court on the motion of Francis Berry, who had been turned out of the possession by the sheriff in executing the writ, made an order quashing the writ, &c. After this, and on the 9th of November, 1819, Reed caused another writ of restitution to be issued from the clerk's office, and under that writ the sheriff again delivered the possession to Reed. At a subsequent term of the court, on the motion of Williams, this latter writ was quashed, and an order made directing the possession to be restored to Williams. From the order quashing the writ and directing the possession to be restored to Williams, Reed has appealed to this court?? This court perceives no principle on which the decision of the circuit court can be sustained. Whilst it appeared, from the return of the sheriff on the first writ of restitution, that the judgment recovered by Reed was satisfied, it would certainly have been irregular for Reed to have caused any other writ of restitution to issue; but after the first writ was quashed, the judgment must be admitted to continue in full force; and to obtain an execution of that judgment, Reed was entitled to a writ of restitution. It is true that more than one year had elapsed from the date of the judgment to the issuing of the latter writ of restitution, and generally speaking, after the lapse of one year from the judgment, an execution cannot regularly issue without reviving the judgment by scire facias. If a writ of restitution be executed and afterwards quashed, leaving the judgment unaffected, the plaintiff may issue another writ of restitution though more than a year has elapsed since the judgment. But it is not necessary, in all cases, after the lapse of one year from the date of the judgment, to cause the judgment to be revived before an execution can issue--Where an execution has issued within the year, but is not satisfied, it has been held that another execution may issue, after the year, without a revival; and the reason is equally strong in favor of the issuing of an execution after the expiration of a year from the date of the judgment, where, as in this case, an execution issues within the year and after being returned satisfied, the execution and return of the sheriff are quashed at the instance of the defendant in the execution. *2 Where an abortive execution has issued, the plaintiff may sue out another, without a scire facias though more than a year has passed since the judgment. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and judgment entered in the court below according to this opinion. Hardin, for appellant. Ky.App. 1821. Reed v. Williams 3 A.K.Marsh. 521, 10 Ky. 521, 1821 WL 1157 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
