(Cite as: 4 Bibb 203,  7 Ky. 203 (Ky.),  1815 WL 723 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rochester v. Crawford. Oct. 11, 1815. *1 R caused to be instituted an inquisition of forcible entry and detainer against M--C appeared and consented to become a defendant, but the warrant was not amended so as to include C; the inquest found M and C guilty; whereupon C alone entered a traverse. The Circuit Court on motion of R, quashed the traverse; but refused to award restitution as against M, or to remand the proceedings to the justice. Upon appeal, resolved, that the traverse was properly quashed; but the refusal to remand the proceedings to the justice, so as to enable him to award against M, an order for restitution was irregular, and therefore a mandate to that effect is sent to the Circuit Court. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 21(2) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k21 Inquisition or Other Summary Proceeding, and Review Thereof 179k21(2) k. Traverse and Proceedings Thereon in General.  Most Cited Cases Where an inquisition of forcible entry was given against M., and C. appeared and asked to be made defendant, but the warrant was not amended, and the inquest found M. and C. guilty, and C. alone entered a traverse, it was properly quashed. Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 38(1) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k38 Judgment 179k38(1) k. Necessity and Effect. Most Cited  Cases Where plaintiff instituted forcible entry against M., and C. asked to be made defendant, but the warrant was not amended to include him, and M. and C. were found guilty, and C. entered a traverse, which was dismissed, an order for restitution should have been awarded against M. on remand to the justice. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. ROCHESTER sued out from a justice of the peace of Estill county, a warrant against William Meddows for a forcible detainer. The warrant having been executed and a jury summoned, Crawford by the assent of the justice agreed to waive all exceptions to the regularity of the proceedings and become a defendant in the contest. Without, however, amending the warrant by inserting the name of Crawford, or in any way making him a party thereto, the jury were called, and being sworn, by their inquest found the defendants guilty of the forcible detainer mentioned in the warrant. Crawford then alone traversed the inquisition, and brought the case before the Circuit Court. On the motion of Rochester, the Court dismissed the traverse for irregularities in the proceedings, and although applied to for that purpose, refused either to award restitution against Meddows or remand the papers to the justice from whence they came, but awarded restitution against Crawford. From this opinion of that Court, Crawford has appealed to this Court. The proceedings before the justice were certainly very irregular. The oath required to be administered to the jury, confines their inquiry to the forcible entry or detainer complained of in the warrant. Whether any other than the person named in the warrant is guilty of the force complained of, can therefore form no part of the duty of the jury in making their inquest; and consequently any finding in relation to a person not named, cannot authorize a restitution against him. Had the warrant been amended by consent of the parties, so as to embrace Crawford, then as his guilt or innocence would have been within the cognizance of the jury, a finding as to him would have been strictly regular. But as no such amendment was made, the agreement of Crawford to become a defendant could in no wise be enforced, nor authorize an inquiry as to him. The inquest as to Crawford was therefore irregular and void, and the Circuit Court consequently erred in awarding restitution against him. *2 That judgment must therefore be reversed; but as the inquest as to Crawford was irregular, and the cause brought by him alone before the Circuit Court, a judgment should have been there entered quashing the inquest as to him. As, however, the inquest was regular as to Meddows, the papers should have been remanded to the justice from whence they came, that restitution might be there had against him. The appellant must recover his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Crawford v. Rochester 4 Bibb 203, 7 Ky. 203, 1815 WL 723 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
