(Cite as: 4 Bibb 516,  7 Ky. 516 (Ky.),  1816 WL 845 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Coleman v. Casey. Apr. 21, 1817. *1 A power of attorney acknowledged before a mayor in Virginia, not sufficient authentication to admit it as evidence in this State, without other evidence of its due execution. West Headnotes Acknowledgment 12 k 39 12 Acknowledgment 12II Taking and Certificate 12k39 k. Further Certificate of Authenticity and Conformity to Law. Most Cited Cases A power of attorney, acknowledged before a mayor in Virginia, is not sufficiently authenticated to be admissible in evidence. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an ejectment brought by Coleman to recover a lot of ground in the town of Cynthiana, the title to which he claims under a patent which issued from the Commonwealth of Virginia to John Milton, in 1786. Casey appears to have been the tenant in possession; and after he was admitted a defendant, upon the motion of his counsel, Harrison was also made a defendant; and it is now contended that because Harrison was improperly made a defendant, the judgment obtained against Coleman upon the merits, should be set aside. Whether it was strictly regular to associate the name of Harrison as a defendant with Casey, we have not thought it material to inquire; for if it were not regular, we are unable to perceive any injury to which Coleman from that circumstance can be exposed: nor do we suppose for that cause the judgment should be reversed. On the trial in the Court below, the defendants for the purpose of showing that Milton, the patentee, had no title when Coleman obtained his conveyance, introduced a power of attorney from Milton to Robert Rankin, executed in 1793, and a deed of conveyance executed in pursuance thereof to John Haggin; and the Court being of opinion the certificate of the mayor of Winchester, in the State of Virginia, of Milton, the grantor, having signed, sealed, and acknowleged the same, together with the seal of the mayoralty thereunto annexed, was a sufficient authentication, admitted the power to be used as evidence, without other evidence of its execution. Whether the authentication be considered in relation either to the statute of Virginia of 1785, or that of this country of 1792, it cannot have authorized the using of the power in evidence. By the act of 1785, the bare attestation of the mayor and seal of mayoralty, without any testimonial from the proper officer of the city or other place where the mayor resides, or the great seal of the State, cannot warrant the introduction of the power as evidence: and as Milton, the grantor, lived in Virginia, according to the act of 1792  (1 Litt. 152), the power should have been acknowledged in the Court where he resided, and certified by the clerk to have been recorded in his office, together with the State or county seal affixed thereto, and recorded in some Superior or County Court in this State. Because, therefore, the power was improperly used as evidence, the judgment must be reversed. But as the cause must be remanded for a new trial in the Court below, it may be remarked that we have not thought it material to decide the other points made in the argument. *2 A decision upon those points may not, and probably will not, become material in the present contest, if, as no doubt it is competent to do, the due execution of the power be proven on the trial, by the introduction of parol evidence; or if the authentication of the power be now made to conform to the requisitions of the law. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1817. Coleman v. Casey 4 Bibb 516, 7 Ky. 516, 1816 WL 845 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
