(Cite as: 7 T.B.Mon. 409,  23 Ky. 409 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1287 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Forean v. Bowen. Jun. 21, 1828. *1 Damages. Trial by Jury. Bank Note Contracts. Mistake. Consideration. Pleading by Defendant. Jurisdiction. Equity. APPEAL FROM THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT; BEN. SHACKELFORD, JUDGE. West Headnotes Jury 230 k 18 230 Jury 230II Right to Trial by Jury 230k18 k. Particular Forms or Kinds of Civil Actions;   Summary Proceedings. Most Cited Cases In covenant on a bank note contract, not within the act allowing a recovery in kind, a judgment for the nominal amount of the commonwealth paper judgment without the intervention of a jury, was irregular;  but in cases within the statute, where plaintiff indorses on his declaration that he will accept the bank paper, no jury is necessary. Action 13 k 24 13 Action 13II Nature and Form 13k21 Legal or Equitable 13k24 k. Equitable Defenses in Action at Law. Most Cited  Cases A defense that the covenant sued on was executed by mistake for too great a sum cannot be made at law, but the remedy is in equity. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Covenant declared on. Bowen sued Forean in covenant, on the following writing: On or before the 7th day of April next, I, George Forean, promise to pay Arthur M. Bowen, the just sum of one thousand five hundred and fifty-five dollars and seventy-two cents, in notes on the Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, for value received, as witness my hand and seal, this 3d day of December, 1823. GEORGE FOREAN, (Seal.) The declaration sets out the covenant sufficiently precise, and alleges for breach, the non-payment of the bank paper at the day stipulated for its payment. Declarations. Four pleas were presented by Forean, one of which was rejected by the court, another was demurred to by Bowen, and adjudged bad by the court; and upon the other two, issues to the country were made up by the parties, but by permission of the court they were afterwards withdrawn by Forean. Pleas withdrawn. The pleas having been thus disposed of, judgment was rendered by the court, without the intervention of a jury, "that Bowen, the plaintiff in that court, recover of Forean, the defendant there, one thousand five hundred and fifty-five dollars and seventy-two cents, the debt in the declaration mentioned, with interest thereon, to be computed at the rate of six per centum per annum, from the 7th of April, 1824, until paid, and also his cost by him about his suit in this behalf expended." Judgment by default, for the nominal amount of the covenant for bank notes, with interest, without a jury. From that judgment Forean appealed. The judgment is undoubtedly erroneously rendered. It was not only irregularly, to render judgment for the nominal amount of the commonwealth's paper mentioned in the covenant, as for so much debt, and interest thereon, but there should have been no judgment for any specific sum, without the intervention of a jury to assess the damages. The amount of damages to which Bowen became entitled to recover, for a breach of the covenant sued on, is not to be ascertained by inspection of the covenant, but depends on the value of the bank paper at the time it was payable, and of which value it is the province of a jury and not the court, upon evidence aliunde, to ascertain and assess. The court might, no doubt, without the intervention of a jury, render judgment for the nominal amount in notes of the bank, when the action is founded on a contract coming within the act which allows the recovery of bank paper, if by endorsing upon his declaration the plaintiff declares his willingness to accept bank paper, but the writing upon which this suit is founded was executed before the passage of the act, and is not therefore within the act. *2 In covenant on a bank note contract, not within the act allowing a recovery in kind, there must be a jury. But there are other questions, besides those which relate to the regularity of entering the judgment made by the assignment of errors; one of which and one only, will however be noticed. In cases within the statute, where the plaintiff endorses he will receive the bank paper no jury is necessary to assess the damages. The others are so obviously and palpably against Forean, that even to notice them would give them a consequence which the most zealous advocate can not be presumed to suppose them entitled to. The question we shall notice involves the validity of the third plea, which was adjudged bad on demurrer by the circuit court. It is as follows: ??"The defendant, Forean, comes, &c., and for plea says, the plaintiff Bowen, his action aforesaid against him to have and maintain, ought not, as to two hundred and eighty dollars of the debt in the declaration mentioned; because, he says, that heretofore, to-wit: on the 14th day of March, 1822, at the circuit, &c., it was agreed between a certain Peter Forean, the son of this defendant, and the plaintiff, that the said Peter Forean should freight for the plaintiff from Boyd's landing in this circuit, to the New Orleans market, twenty-eight hogsheads of tobacco, and should sell the same for the best price which could be got therefor in the New Orleans market, and after deducting ten dollars for each hogshead, out of the amount for which the tobacco might sell, for the freight thereof, he, the said Peter Forean should pay over the balance of the price of said tobacco to the plaintiff, and the defendant avers that the said Peter Forean did freight said twenty-eight hogsheads of tobacco, from Boyd's landing aforesaid to the New Orleans market, for the plaintiff, and that he did there sell the same for the best price which could be had for it, and in a few days afterwards died there. And the defendant further avers, that the covenant sued upon was executed by him to the plaintiff, as the price of the whole of said tabacco, and for no other or further consideration; and that by mistake the same was executed for the entire price of said tobacco, without deducting therefrom the amount of ten dollars per hogshead, for freight, as aforesaid, and this he is ready to verify, &c. Plea alleging a mistake in the covenant declared on. None will deny but that Forean ought in moral justice, to be relieved from the payment of the two hundred and eighty dollars, to which his plea purports to be an answer, if, in point of fact, the allegations contained in this plea be true; but we apprehend, that to obtain relief, he must apply to a court of equity, and can not, in the mode adopted by him, avail himself of the matter by plea at law. If the mistake alleged in the plea went to the whole consideration of the obligation, there would be no difficulty, under the laws of this country, in sustaining the defence at law; but the object of the plea is, to go into part of the consideration only, and such a plea has been repeatedly decided not to be allowable at law. The plea was, therefore, correctly adjudged bad by the circuit court. *3 Defence, that the covenant was executed by mistake for too great a sum, can not be made at law; the remedy is in equity. Otherwise, it seems, where the defence goes the whole action. The judgment against Forean must, however, for reasons first assigned, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Mayes, for appellant; Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1828. Forean v. Bowen 7 T.B.Mon. 409, 23 Ky. 409, 1828 WL 1287 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
