(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 565,  10 Ky. 565 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1173 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. James Morris et al. v. Robert M'Millen. Jun. 14, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Cancellation of Instruments 69 k 8 69 Cancellation of Instruments 69I Right of Action and Defenses 69k2 Right to Cancellation 69k8 k. Injury Sustained or Anticipated. Most Cited  Cases Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 112(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k106 Right to Rescind 400k112 Defect in Title of  Vendor 400k112(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A. sold a town lot to B., who afterwards discovered in the books of trustees of the town a minute that the same lot had been sold and conveyed to another.  B. brought a bill, praying that the contract might be canceled;  but it not appearing that a deed to that other had ever been delivered, and no claimant having appeared after the lapse of many years, it was presumed that none ever would, and B.'s bill was dismissed. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Morris and Wickliffe purchased from M'Millen part of a lot of ground, in the town of Lexington, at the price of $1,500, paid $1,200 in band and gave to M'Millen an obligation for the payment of $300, the residue of the price. Sometime thereafter, M'Millen brought suit on the obligation and finally recovered judgment thereon at law. Morris and Wickliffe then exhibited their bill in equity, with injunction, against M'Millen. The bill charges that when they made the purchase they were ignorant of any defect in the title and supposed that M'Millen was invested with a regular and unincumbered title--that on the same day of the purchase, and after the deed of conveyance was made by M'Millen, they discovered from the books of the trustees, that a memorandum is therein contained shewing that the trustees had conveyed the lot to a certain Brobson, and from whom they alleged M'Millen has never obtained a conveyance. They allege, that immediately on making the discovery they pursued M'Millen, informed him of the defect which they had learned existed in the title, and demanded of him a cancelment of the contract, or that he would exhibit a regular title to the lot; that M'Millen then informed them that his title was complete, and that, before he would demand the residue of the price, then unpaid, he would exhibit his title and prove to their satisfaction that no danger was to be apprehended from the discovery which they had made from the books of the trustees. But, they moreover, charge, that without exhibiting his title, M'Millen has brought suit and recovered judgment at law; and they ask for a discovery of his title, and if his title be not perfect, they pray the contract to be cancelled and for general relief, &c. *2 M'Millen admits the sale, by him, of the lot, at the price and on the terms alleged in the bill--he denies that Brobson has any title, but exhibits a regular chain of title from the trustees down to himself--he admits having recovered the judgment at law, and insists, that the injunction obtained by Morris & Wickliffe against his judgment at law, ought to be dissolved and their bill dismissed, &c. The circuit court, on a final hearing, dissolved the injunction with damages, and dismissed the bill of Morris & Wickliffe with cost. We think the decree of the circuit court is correct. There is, certainly, no sufficient cause shewn by Morris & Wickliffe for setting aside the sale of the lot. M'Millen not only appears to have sold the lot under an honest conviction of his possessing the unincumbered title, but he has, moreover, exhibited a regular title from the trustees of the town. It is true, from a transcript taken from the books of the trustees, a memorandum appears to have been made in those books, anterior to the date of the trustees' deed, under which M'Millen claims, wherein it is stated that a deed from the trustees to Brobson for the lot now in contest, was signed on the 11th January, 1786, and there is no evidence, on this record, shewing that Brobson has ever since conveyed the lot. But if the deed to Brobson was, in fact, ever delivered, (and whether or not does not appear), as it is not shewn to have been recorded, no purchase for a valuable consideration, without notice, can be effected by it; and it is not pretended that either M'Millen or those from whom he purchased had notice, when they purchased the lot, of any claim by Brobson. M'Millen, therefore, must be admitted to have held both the legal and equitable title when he sold and conveyed to Morris and Wickliffe, and possessing such title, he was guilty of no fraud, and consequently the sale by him can not be set aside. An innocent purchaser of a lot in town, deducing a connected title from the trustees, will be protected, notwithstanding a minute in the books of the trustees, that the same lot had before been sold and conveyed to another, it not appearing that the deed to that other had ever been delivered; and no adverse claimant appearing after a lapse of many years, second purchasers will be decreed to go on with the contract. But it is contended that the discovery made by Morris and Wickliffe is of a character which gave them a right to demand of M'Millen an exhibition of his title, and as he failed to do so, it is insisted that they had just cause for applying to the chancellor, and that although their injunction may have been properly dissolved on a final hearing, it ought to have been dissolved without damages and cost. We, however, think differently. If there had been any person asserting claim to the lot under Brobson, it might have been proper for Wickliffe and Morris to have resorted to a court of equity, for the purpose of avoiding the payment of the price, until the validity of M'Millen's title could be investigated, and in such a case it would have been irregular to have given damages against them in the dissolution of their injunction, as was held in the case of  Massie v. Sebastian, 4 Bibb, 436. But in this case it is not pretended that any one asserts claim to the lot under Brobson, and from the lapse of time which has intervened since the date of the memorandum in the books of the trustees, it is not presumable that either Brobson or any person under him will ever assert such a claim. *3 The decree must be affirmed with damages on the damages given by the court below and cost. Wickliffe, for appellant; Hardin, contra. Ky.App. 1821. Morris v. McMillen 3 A.K.Marsh. 565, 10 Ky. 565, 1821 WL 1173 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
