(Cite as: 3 Bibb 204,  6 Ky. 204 (Ky.),  1813 WL 650 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ails v. Sublit. Oct. 20, 1813. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 77 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak76 Admissibility in Evidence 307Ak77 k. Continued existence of grounds for  taking; unavailability of witness. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 122k90  Depositions) To admit a deposition taken de bene esse, proof is requisite of the inability of the witness to attend;  and the fact that the witness was 60 years old when the deposition was taken, and then appeared infirm, is not sufficient. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 DURING the progress of this cause in the Court below Sublit, who was plaintiff in that Court, obtained an order to take the deposition of George Cardwell de bene esse. The deposition was accordingly taken, and on the trial offered in evidence to the jury. Ails objected to its admission; to obviate the objection Sublit proved that Cardwell was about 64 years old when his deposition was taken, and that he appeared then infirm; and also a letter written by Sublit to his attorney was produced, giving intelligence that he had a few days before been informed Cardwell was dead. The objection to the deposition being used as evidence was overruled, and the depositions admitted. The question is, should the deposition have been rejected? To authorize the admission of the deposition as evidence, it evidently devolved on Sublit to prove, by competent proof, the death of Cardwell, or his inability to attend the trial. We think, however, that neither of those facts were established. It is clear the letter written by Sublit to his attorney, was not admissible evidence to prove Cardwell's death; and it is equally obvious the proof made as to the infirmity of the witness some time before the trial, was not sufficient to prove his inability to attend on the trial of the cause. We think, therefore, that the Court erred in permitting the depositions to be used as evidence. To read a deposition taken de bene esse, proof of the inability of the witness to attend, should be made. That the witness was 60 years old when his deposition was taken, and then appeared infirm, is not sufficient. The letter of the party written to his attorney that he had heard the witness was dead, is not sufficient. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for a new trial to be had in that Court. Ky.App. 1813. Ails v. Sublit 3 Bibb 204, 6 Ky. 204, 1813 WL 650 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
