(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 454,  10 Ky. 454 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1129 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thomas Dye Owings v. Peter Ulory. Jun. 4, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BATH CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 76(2) 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(F) Verdict or Findings Contrary to Law or Evidence 275k76 Excessive Damages 275k76(2) k. Nature of Action in General. Most Cited  Cases A new trial will not be granted for excessive damages, in trespass quare clausum, unless they are outrageous. Adverse Possession 20 k 104 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(B) Title or Right Acquired 20k104 k. Presumption of Grant. Most Cited  Cases Where two patentees divide a tract by actual survey, and one of them sells and gives possession to the vendee, who retains possession for 20 years, the jury may fairly infer that there were deeds of partition executed. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of trespass, quare clausum fregit, brought by Ulory to recover damages for Owings entering upon his close, cutting down, and carrying away a number of timber trees, &c. The trial was had on the general issue, with leave for Owings to give any special matter in evidence. During the progress of the trial, and after Ulory had gone through his evidence, the counsel of Owings moved the court to instruct the jury to find as in case of a nonsuit; but his motion was overruled, and exceptions taken to the opinion of the court. This court is of opinion that the motion was correctly overruled. From the evidence introduced by Ulory, he appears not to have shewn a regular deduction of title, from the commonwealth, to the land on which the trespass was proven to have been committed by Owings, but he exhibited a deed, from Jacob Myers, including the land, and proved that he had settled on the land, claiming title under the deed, and had continued to reside within the boundaries of the deed for twenty years. Trespass may be maintained on twenty years' possession against a person having no title, though the plaintiff can not deduce a title from the commonwealth. Under this state of the evidence, Ulory must be considered as being possessor, to the extent of the boundaries of the deed, and that possession is sufficient to authorize him to maintain an action against any person entering upon the land and cutting the timber without title. After the motion of Owings' counsel was overruled, he attempted, by the introduction of title papers, to prove that he was tenant in common with Ulory, and moved the court to instruct the jury that as Owings was tenant in common with Ulory, that Ulory could not support his action, but the court left the evidence to the jury, to decide whether there had not been a severance of the tenancy, and refused to give the instructions. If two patentees divide the tract by actual survey, and one of them sells and gives possession to the vendee, who retains the possession for twenty years, the jury may fairly infer that there were deeds of partition executed. *2 In refusing the instructions, we think, the court decided correctly. It appears that a patent issued in 1785, from the commonwealth of Virginia, to Jacob Myers & John C. Owings for 2,000 acres of land, including the place whereon the trespass, complained of by Ulory, was committed. That in 1791 Jacob Myers conveyed to Ulory, by metes and bounds, part of the patented land, including the place whereon the trespass was committed; and that Ulory settled on the land under that deed and has continued to reside thereon for twenty years. It also appears that in 1792 or 1793, partition was made between Myers and John C. Owings, the patentees, by actual survey, of the patented tract, but it is not expressly proven that deeds of partition have ever been executed by each or either of the patentees to the other. It also appears, that the title set up by Owings, in this contest, was attempted to be deduced from the patentee, John C. Owings. From the facts thus detailed, it will be perceived that the defense set up by Owings, rests upon the fact of no partition deed ever having been executed by either of the patentees to the other; but we apprehend, the jury might have rationally presumed the execution of such deeds, from the fact of a partition survey having been actually made, connected with the further facts of Myers having sold and conveyed to Ulory, and Ulory having, under that deed, settled upon the land and continued in the use and possession thereof for twenty years; and consequently, the consideration of those facts were properly left with the jury. A verdict of $150 was found by the jury for Ulory, and Owings moved the court to set it aside and award a new trial, on the grounds--1st. That the verdict was contrary to law and evidence, and--2dly. That the damages were outrageously excessive. But the motion was overruled and judgment rendered against Owings. Unless the verdict should have been set aside on the second ground, it is plain the court decided correctly in refusing to award a new trial. For if we are correct in supposing that the jury might, from the evidence, presume the execution of deeds of partition by the patentees, the evidence is complete, not only to shew an exclusive title and possession of the land in Ulory, but it also shews, conclusively, that Owings caused about sixty timber trees to be cut and carried away from the land. In trespass the jury, in their damages, are not confined to the value of the property injured, but may increase them according to aggravated circumstances, nor will the verdict be disturbed because the damages are high, unless they are so high as to prove the jury to have been in fluenced by improper motives. As to the second ground relied on for a new trial, it may be remarked, that the jury has given higher damages than the trees, which were cut and carried away from the land, were proven to be worth; but in actions of this character, the jury are not confined strictly to the value of the timber in estimating their damages. Circumstances frequently occur, which in their nature are calculated to aggravate the trespass, and the jury, in the exercise of a sacred discretion, should duly consider all the circumstances and estimate the damages according to the enormity of the offense. In the present case, the highest value which is put upon the timber trees, by any of the witnesses, is one dollar for each tree, but after Owings commenced cutting he was warned by Ulory to desist, but instead of doing so, he seems to have, willfully and knowingly, persisted in the accomplishment of his tortuous and illegal purpose. If, after such a course, Owings should have to pay damages, beyond the value of the timber which he has converted to his use, he can have no just cause of complaint, but must attribute it to his own illegal acts. *3 There may be a possible case, where, for excessive damages, in actions like the present, it would be incumbent on the court to interpose and award a new trial for excessive damages; but the damages must be so outrageous as to strike every one, at the first blush, to have been rather the result of passion or prejudice in the jury, than of due deliberation; and the present case, (especially after the decision of the circuit court in overruling the motion for a new trial) we apprehend, cannot be denominated a case of that character. The judgment must be affirmed with cost and damages. Haggin for appellant, Bibb for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Owings v. Ulory 3 A.K.Marsh. 454, 10 Ky. 454, 1821 WL 1129 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
