(Cite as: 4 Bibb 4,  7 Ky. 4 (Ky.),  1815 WL 628 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cox, etc. v. Strode. Apr. 6, 1815. *1 The record of proceedings, whereby the vendee was evicted, is evidence against the vendor only of the fact of eviction. The cause being reversed by this Court previously for want of proper parties, and the rule of compensation being noticed, as between warrantor and warrantee, does not preclude the question whether the warrantor is responsible or not, when the cause is tried the second time in the Court below. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 710 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k706 Persons Not Parties or Privies 228k710 k. Judgment as Evidence of Property Rights in  General. Most Cited Cases The purchaser of land with warranty from defendants having been, as he alleged, evicted, from part of the land, commenced a suit for compensation. Held, that copies of the records and proceedings in the ejectment suits, although competent to prove the eviction, were not admissible in evidence against defendants, as they did not appear to have been parties to, nor notified of, the pendency of those suits. Covenants 108 k 120 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k117 Evidence 108k120 k. Judgment as Evidence of Eviction. Most Cited  Cases Covenants 108 k 121(1) 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k117 Evidence 108k121 Judgment as Evidence of Paramount Title or  Right 108k121(1) k. Admissibility. Most Cited  Cases In an action on a covenant of warranty, the judgment against plaintiff's title is competent to show eviction, but not to show superiority of title, unless the warrantor had notice of the pendency of the suit. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. RALPH MORGAN, one of the plaintiffs, and Samuel Cox, the ancestor of the other plaintiff gave their obligation to Strode, with a condition to warrant the title to eight hundred acres of land. Strode having been evicted, as he alleges, from part of the land by adverse paramount claims, brought this suit and obtained a decree in the Court below for compensation. From this decree the plaintiffs have prosecuted this writ of error. As Strode was complainant in the Court below, and claimed compensation for the breach of a covenant of warranty, it was clearly essential for him to show that he had been evicted from the land by a paramount title. For this purpose were produced the copies of the records and proceedings of the suits in which the evictions were had. These copies, according to the settled rules of evidence, were certainly competent to prove the eviction; but by repeated decisions of this Court, (See Devour v. Johnson, vol. 3, 410) as the plaintiffs were not parties, and do not appear to have been notified of the pendency of those suits, the copies were not admissible evidence of the eviction having been had under paramount titles. It is true as part of the copies appear to be transcripts of the proceedings and decrees in the suits in chancery, wherein the eviction was in part had, and as no objections were taken in the Court below, to any part of the evidence contained in those transcripts, it is proper we should, to ascertain the validity of the claims under which the eviction was had, examine the evidence contained in those copies. If this be done, although an attempt was made to support the calls of the entries, yet the evidence is not of that description calculated to prove those claims paramount to Strode's. It was, however, contended in argument, that as this case was heretofore decided by this Court, the right of the plaintiffs now to recover should not be again questioned. Whatever would have been the effect of the former opinion of this Court, had Strode's right to recover upon the evidence as it now stands been then decided, by no fair construction can that opinion, under the circumstances of this case, have the operation contended for. The former decree of the Court below, when this cause was in the first instance before this Court, was reversed for the want of proper parties, and the cause remanded to that Court for the proper parties to be made, and further proceedings had; and although this Court then anticipated that a contest might arise when the cause should be regularly prepared, as to the amount of compensation which Strode should recover upon establishing his demand, to obviate that difficulty they then determined the rule by which the compensation should be ascertained. But as the proper parties were not then before the Court, and the right of the parties might by the production of additional evidence after the cause was remanded, be materially changed, it was not only not intended by the Court, but would have been manifestly improper then to have expressed an opinion upon the evidence in the cause; nor is it conceived the expression of any such opinion, by any fair construction of the former opinion, can be inferred. *2 The decree of the Court below must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to that Court and the bill dismissed. Ky.App. 1815. Cox v. Strode 4 Bibb 4, 7 Ky. 4, 1815 WL 628 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
