(Cite as: 3 Bibb 303,  6 Ky. 303 (Ky.),  1814 WL 932 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ferguson v. Waters. Apr. 19, 1814. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 407(3) 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k407 Existence of or Resort to Other  Remedy 228k407(3) k. New trial. Most Cited  Cases Equity will not relieve against a judgment at law, on the ground of surprise, where the allegation is traversed by the answer, and no application was made for a new trial at the time the judgment was obtained. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 24 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(A) Discovery in General 307Ak24 k. Discovery methods and procedure. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 127k22  Discovery) Though equity will take jurisdiction of a cause for the purpose of compelling a discovery, and, where discovery is made, will retain the cause and grant relief, if the facts to which discovery is asked are denied by the answer, the court ought not to retain the cause and hear depositions to disprove the answer. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THE plaintiff in error, after a trial in an action brought by him against the defendant, recovered a judgment at law for about 16l. To obtain relief against the judgment the defendant in error exhibited his bill in equity, alleging as reasons for resorting to a Court of Chancery, that owing to certain facts resting in the knowledge of the plaintiff only, he was unable to make full defense to the action at law; and that being deceived by the representation of the plaintiff's attorney, he was surprised at the trial at law, and was not then prepared to make defense. He obtained an injunction against the plaintiff's judgment, and on a final hearing the Court below made the injunction perpetual. A Court of Equity will take jurisdiction of a cause for the purpose of compelling a discovery, and where discovery is made, will retain the cause and grant relief. But if the facts to which discovery is asked, are denied by the answer, the Court ought not to retain the cause and hear depositions to disprove the answer--Accord. Lemon v. Cherry, vol. 1, 253, Cave v. Trabue, vol. 2, 444. We are of opinion that Court erroneously sustained the defendant's bill and decreed relief against the judgment at law. The facts of which a discovery was sought in the bill, are denied by the answer; and although equity will take jurisdiction for the purpose of a discovery, and when the discovery is obtained retain jurisdiction for the purpose of granting relief, a party should not be permitted, by alleging the want of a discovery, to transfer the jurisdiction from a Court of Law to a Court of Equity, and thereby authorize relief to be decreed on the production of evidence in opposition to the answer. The answer in this case, therefore, not having furnished the discovery sought, the Circuit Court for that cause should not have retained jurisdiction for the purpose of giving relief. The surprise alleged in the bill can furnish no grounds for relief. That allegation is likewise traversed by the answer and not established by proof. And besides, the circumstance of no application having been made for a new trial at the time judgment was obtained at law, affords strong and convincing evidence that there was no surprise. The defendant having failed to show a sufficient cause for his application to a Court of Equity, his bill should have been dismissed with costs. The decree of the Court below, therefore, must be reversed with costs etc Ky.App. 1814. Ferguson v. Waters 3 Bibb 303, 6 Ky. 303, 1814 WL 932 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
