(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 488,  8 Ky. 488 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1059 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Peter Moore et al. v. Waller's Heirs. Apr. 27, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE BOURBON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 532 162 Executors and Administrators 162XIII Liabilities on Administration Bonds 162k532 k. Breach or fulfillment of condition. Most Cited Cases The surety of an executor is accountable for all legacies for which the executor is by law chargeable, whether relating to personal estate or growing out of the sale of the testator's lands, but not for any surplus of the estate not disposed of by will, though the bond contains a provision for the faithful administration of the estate. Principal and Surety 309 k 118 309 Principal and Surety 309III Discharge of Surety 309k118 k. Discharge of principal without payment or satisfaction. Most Cited Cases A surety is not discharged by the discharge of his principal under the bankrupt law. Principal and Surety 309 k 140 309 Principal and Surety 309IV Remedies of Creditors 309k137 Conditions Precedent to Action Against Surety 309k140 k. Determination as to default and liability of  principal. Most Cited Cases Though, at law, a surety cannot be sued before ascertaining the extent of his principal's liability, yet the chancellor may adjust the matter in one suit. Wills 409 k 656 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(G) Conditions and Restrictions 409k655 Construction and Operation of Conditions 409k656 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Testator devised the guardianship of his children to his wife, but in the event of her marriage, if the executor adjudged the estate wasting or the children abused, he should take the children and two-thirds of the property. By another clause the whole estate was devised to the children after the mother's death. Held, that the wife by a subsequent marriage lost her life estate in the two-thirds. Wills 409 k 656 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(G) Conditions and Restrictions 409k655 Construction and Operation of Conditions 409k656 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Upon the failure of the executor to use his power, the wife remained the guardian of the children to whom the two-thirds descended as heirs. Wills 409 k 733(2) 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(A) Nature of Title and Rights in General 409k733 Time of Accrual of Right to Devise or  Legacy 409k733(2) k. Termination of precedent estate or interest  in general. Most Cited Cases A testator devised the guardianship of his children to his wife;  but in the event of her marriage, and the executor judging the estate wasting, or the children abused, that he should take the children and two-thirds of the property. By another clause he devised the whole estate to the children, after their mother's death. Held, that the children had no right, as devisees, until their mother's death. Equity 150 k 50 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k50 k. Statutory creation of remedy. Most Cited  Cases St.1796, giving a remedy at law on the bonds of executors and administrators, is cumulative, and does not oust the court of equity of its jurisdiction. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 In June, 1791, Edward Waller made and published his last will and testament, in writing, containing various provisions in relation to the disposition of his estate. And having departed this life, his will was duly proven before the Bourbon county court, and, at the January term, 1792, admitted to record, and upon the execution of a bond by John Edwards, the executor named, and the appellant, Moore, his security, letters testamentary, were granted. The appellees, who are the children as well as devisees of the testator, for the purpose of obtaining that portion of the estate of their father, to which they conceived themselves entitled, in 1813, after they had all arrived to full age exhibited their bill of complaint against the executor, and Moore his security. They allege that the estate consisted of lands, slaves and personal chattels, and that under an authority given to him by the will, the executor sold part of the land, and received large sums of money in payment thereof, but he refuses not only to pay over the money so received, but moreover fails and refuses to pay to the appellees any part of the estate to the testator. Edwards and Moore both admit the making of the will by the testator, and also the execution of the bond by them for a faithful execution of the will. Edwards alleges that he made out and returned to court an inventory of the estate, admits the sale of the land charged in the bill, but charges that having become a bankrupt, he obtained, in strict conformity to the act of congress in that case provided, a certificate thereof, and insists upon being thereby absolved from any claim of the appellees to which he might have been otherwise liable. Moore not having a personal knowledge of the acts of Edwards, requires from the appellees full proof of their demands, urges that he is not, according to the import of his bond, liable for the acts of the executor in relation to the land, and insists upon the certificate of Edwards' bankruptcy producing the same effect in relation to him, as that contended for by Edwards. On a final hearing, the court below, supposing that, in consequence of Edwards' bankruptcy, he could not be made further liable, decreed that he and Moore, against a day named, should deliver up the slaves mentioned in the will, and to which the appellees were adjudged to be entitled; but not supposing the certificate to have any operation favorable to Moore, subjected him, moreover, not only to the appellees' claim for the proportion of the personal property, but also decreed he should pay the amount of the proceeds of the sales of the land, together with interest and cost. From this decree, Moore has appealed to this court. Preliminary to an examination of the merits of the decree, it is proper we should notice the objections taken in argument to the propriety of the appellees' resorting to a court of chancery for relief. It was contended, that as an action at law might have been maintained upon the executor's bond, relief should have been sought in that mode of action, and not by application to the chancellor. *3 Were the question of cognizance to be determined, exclusively, by reference to the statute under which the bond was given, there would certainly be some force in the argument. For, as by that statute, any person is permitted to sue, the suit given, as was decided by this court in the case of  Jackson against the Bourbon justices, 2 Bibb, 292, must be understood to be an action at law, and not by bill in equity. The act of 1796 concerning executors and administrators, which gives an action at law, on the bond is only cumulative, and does not oust the chancellor of his jurisdiction in such cases. The remedy thus given by the statute, however, as it grows out of an affirmative provision, is in its nature cumulative only, and should not be construed to supersede any other to which those interested might otherwise have had recourse. In deciding upon the propriety of applying to the chancellor in the present case for relief, therefore, we must be governed by those rules which usually control questions of equitable cognizance; and if so, we can have no hesitation in sustaining the application; for it is incontrovertibly settled, that as incident to their powers in relation to matters of trust and account, courts of chancery may entertain jurisdiction for the purpose of compelling executors and administrators to account and make distribution of the decedent's estate. But if the case is proper for equitable cognizance, it is contended, that as the liability of the executor appears not to have been ascertained by a previous suit, Moore, his security, should not be made subject to the appellee's claim in the present contest. Though at law a previous suit may be necessary to ascertain the extent of the executor's liability, before the security can be resorted to, in chancery no such procedure is necessary--the chancellor will adapt his decree to the justice of the case, and adjust the whole transaction in one suit. Though the principal has been discharged as a bankrupt, the security is not thereby rereleased. The doctrine contended for cannot, however, be permitted to prevail. For whatever may be the correct doctrine in a proceeding at law, by the creditors of the testator, the chancellor, when applied to for the purpose of distribution, as he will not do things by halves, but delights in preventing multiplicity of suits, and possesses the power of adapting his decrees to the substantial justice of the case, should as he will, regardless of the failure in not having previously brought another suit against the executor, hear and finally determine the liability of security, as well as that of the principal in the bond. Having thus disposed of the preliminary objections, we are led to examine the decree upon its merits. And in entering upon this examination, it may be proper to premise, that whatever effect the certificate of Edwards' bankruptcy may have, in relation to him, according to the clear and obvious import of the act of Congress, there is no doubt but that Moore, the security, can not have been thereby discharged: so that the propriety of the decree against Moore, turns very much upon the effect and legal operation of the bond executed by him and the executor. *4 That bond is in the usual form, and contains a condition that the executor "should make a true and perfect inventory of all and singular the goods, chattels and credits of the testator, which had or might come to his hands, possession or knowledge, or into the hands or possession of any other person or persons for him; and the same so made, to exhibit into the court of Bourbon county at such time as he should be thereunto required by the said court; and the same goods, chattels and credits, well and truly administer according to law, and make a just and true account of all his actings and doings therein, when thereunto required by the court; and further well and truly pay and deliver all the legacies contained and specified in the said will, as far as the said goods, chattels and credits will extend, according to the value thereof, and as the law shall charge him, &c." That by this condition, Moore, as the security of the executor, is bound for the payment of the legacies contained in the will, to the extent and according to the value of the goods, chattels and credits of the testator, is not contested, but it is urged, that as the land of the testator is neither goods, chattels nor credits, the surety, Moore, ought not to be subjected to the payment of the money received by the executor for the sale of the lands. If a testator devises lands to be sold for the payment of legacies, the security of the executor is liable to the legatees for the proceeds of the lands sold. We are, however, of opinion that the value of the goods and chattels of the testator is not the only criterion by which the liability of Moore is to be ascertained, but that according to the just import of the bond, he must be supposed accountable for all legacies, for which the executor is by law chargeable, whether they relate to the personal estate or grow out of sales directed to be made of the testator's land. But, we apprehend, the extent of Moore's liability, to the representatives of the testator, must be measured exclusively by the legacies for which the executor is by law chargeable; and that for any surplus of the testator's estate not disposed of by his will, the bond of Moore does not impose upon him any obligation in favor of those entitled to the distribution. The security of an executor is answerable only to legatees and those who have claims on the estate, and not to heirs or distributees, while the security to an administrator is answerable to the distributees also FNa FNa. The reason of this distinction must be, that the executor is appointed by the testator, and must be presumed to possess his confidence; if, therefore, the executor defrauds the heir, the testator is blamable for reposing trust unworthily:--but an administrator is a functionary, in whose appointment the testator had no agency, and in whom he places no trust; therefore it is proper the administrator should give security to all who are interested. The condition of the bond, it is true, contains a provision for the faithful administration of the estate of the testator, but as to administer the estate, implies nothing more than a faithful discharge of the duties of an executor, in relation to those having claims against the estate, it is plain, that under that stipulation in the bond, the heirs claiming the estate, are not entitled to indemnity. *5 That the stipulation to administer the estate does not imply an obligation to pay to those entitled to distribution, is moreover obvious from the form of the condition of an administrator's bond, given in the same statute. By that condition the administrator is made to stipulate, not only for a faithful administration of the estate, but moreover to pay over the residue of the estate to such persons as may be entitled thereto by law;--thus clearly indicating that by the term administer, the legislature intended to impose an obligation in favor of creditors only, and not in behalf of the testator's heirs or representatives. If, then, we are correct, as to the import of the obligation, it becomes material, as well for the purpose of determining upon the right of the appellees to the money for which the land was sold by the executor, as their claim to the balance of the property, to advert to the provisions of the will. By one provision in his will, the testator gave to his wife the plantation hereon he lived during her life, and all his moveable estate and negroes during her widowhood, consistent with, and under the care and authority of, his executor; and directed that she should have the care of, and educate his children, and keep them until they should arrive at full age; but in case she should marry again, and his executor should adjudge his children abused, or waste made of the estate, desired that his executor should take such part of his estate, not exceeding two-thirds, as he might choose, and the children, into his care and management, and if he should judge necessary, to take a bond and security for the safe return of the other third part at the death of his wife. A testator devised to his wife the guardianship of his children- and the whole of his slaves and personal property during widowhood, but if she marry again, and the executor should judge the estate wasting, or the children abused, he should take the children and two-thirds of the property; and by another clause devis?? his whole estate to his children after their mother's death, this confers no right as devisees, until the death of the mother. The mother by marriage looses her life estate in the two-thirds, but if the executor does not execute his power, she is entitled as guardian, to the possession until the children come of age; the two-thirds not being disposed of for the term, between the marriage and death of the wife, descends to the children as heirs. And by another provision the testator gave, at the death of his wife, the whole of his estate to his children. These are the only provisions of the will which have any bearing upon the rights of the parties to the property now in contest; and from them nothing is discovered calculated to invest the appellees with a right to demand the estate, or any part thereof, before the decease of their mother. Their mother, it is true, appears to have since married, and having done so, she is certainly not entitled, after the appellees arrive at full age, to retain more than one-third of the property specially given to her during widowhood; but as the will contains no disposition of the other two-thirds until after her decease, the appellees, most clearly, can not, until then, assert their right to it as devisees. *6 During the minority of the children, the executor, under a clause in the first provision cited from the will, might, no doubt, upon the children being abused, or waste made of the estate, have taken the children and two-thirds of the property into his care and management; and if he had done so, the estate taken would, most indubitably, have been held in trust for the children's use and benefit. But as the exercise of the power, thus delegated to the executor, was made to depend upon his judging, either the children were abused, or waste made of the estate, it is plain, that until the happening of one or the other of those contingencies, the appellees can not, by that provision in the will, have become invested with any title to the property. And as the executor is not even alleged to have exercised the power so conferred upon him by the will, the right of the appellees must be determined by the other provisions of the will; and, according to them, as we have already observed, they are not entitled until their mother's death. The executor may be compelled to account for the property, but his security is not bound to account to the children claiming as heirs or distributees. As, however, according to our construction of the will, it contains no disposition of two-thirds of the estate, between the time of the children becoming of full age, and the death of their mother, the beneficial interest for the intermediate term must be supposed to have passed to the children as the heirs of the decedent, and in a suit by them in that character, they might, no doubt, compel the executor (unless by some means, he may be discharged) to account for the same; but as in such a contest they would derive their right as heirs and distributees, and not as devisees or legatees, Moore, the security, could not be made liable. Because, therefore, the appellees have shewn no right as devisees to the property in contest, until the death of their mother, and as she is not proven to be dead, they can not be entitled to a decree against Moore. The decree as to him must consequently be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and the bill dismissed with cost. Bibb for appellants, Hardin for appellees. Ky.App. 1819. Moore v. Waller's Heirs 1 A.K.Marsh. 488, 8 Ky. 488, 1819 WL 1059 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
