(Cite as: 4 Bibb 167,  7 Ky. 167 (Ky.),  1815 WL 705 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wharton v. Clay. Oct. 3, 1815. *1 Ejectment, affidavit to be sufficient must allege that the persons were tenants in possession, and that they were served with copies of the declaration and notice. Personal service in some cases dispensed with. Service of the declaration and notice defectively proved, renders the service of the common order indispensable. Where a judgment taken by default on such service is reversed for want of sufficient service, and the cause is remanded for new proceedings, the appearance of the tenants in this Court is sufficient to dispense with the service of the declaration and notice again. West Headnotes Appearance 31 k 8(8) 31 Appearance 31k7 Proceedings Constituting Appearance 31k8 In General 31k8(8) k. Proceedings Constituting an Appearance After  Judgment. Most Cited Cases Taking an appeal or writ of error constitutes an appearance by the party appealing, as to all subsequent proceedings after remand. Appearance 31 k 26 31 Appearance 31k26 k. Effect of Appearance After Judgment. Most Cited Cases Where a judgment taken by default on a defective service is reversed, and the cause remanded, the appearance of defendant in the appellate court dispenses with service in the court below. Ejectment 142 k 53 142 Ejectment 142II Jurisdiction, Parties, Process, and Incidental Proceedings 142k53 k. Declaration and Notice as Process. Most Cited Cases In ejectment, the affidavit of service must allege that the persons on whom service was made were tenants in possession, and that they were served with copies of the declaration and notice. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment taken in a action of ejectment against Roe, the casual ejector, by default. By the assignment of errors, two questions are presented for the consideration of this Court: 1. With respect to the sufficiency of the evidence of the service of the declaration, etc. 2. As to the necessity of serving the tenants in possession with a copy of the common order, before a confirmation thereof. The affidavit of service contains no suggestion that those upon whom service was made were tenants in possession of the land, nor does it allege the delivery of copies of the notice under the declaration written. The failure in each of these respects is clearly irregularities for which the judgment must be reversed: for as the tenants may be dispossessed under a judgment against the casual ejector, the dictates of natural justice, as well as the settled rules of practice, require that before such a judgment is entered they should have notice, and the service of that notice manifested to the Court by proof of the delivery to them of copies of the declaration and notice thereunder written. *2 We would not be understood as deciding that in every possible case, such a service will be required. Instances may occur, where, from the necessity of the case, a different service will be admissible. Such, for example, as where the tenant absconds, or keeps out of the way, so that a personal service is made impracticable. But even then, although a different service will be received for the purpose of taking an interlocutory order, final judgment will not be entered until further service is made, in the manner prescribed by the Court. It is true final judgment was not in this case entered in the first instance against the casual ejector, but a common order taken, to be made absolute at a subsequent term, unless he or some one for him should appear to the action. Had the tenants been served with this order in proper time, then as they might have appeared to the action and defended their possessions, although they may not have been properly served with the declaration, they could have no just cause to complain; but without deciding on the necessity of serving the tenants with the common order in every possible case, it is evident that as service of the declaration and notice is defectively proven in this case, the failure to serve the common order is fatal. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to that Court for new proceedings; but as the tenants in possession appear now to have notice of the pendency of the suit, unless they should appear and plead to the action, judgment by default may be entered against the casual ejector. Ky.App. 1815. Wharton v. Clay 4 Bibb 167, 7 Ky. 167, 1815 WL 705 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
