(Cite as: 4 Bibb 480,  7 Ky. 480 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1056 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rogers, etc. v. Barnett. Apr. 9, 1817. *1 In ejectment the Court will permit the plaintiff before the trial to amend his declaration so as to make the demise subsequent to the date of his title. A deposition taken de bene esse at the instance of one party, and containing interrogatories propounded by the other, and answers thereto will be permitted to be used in evidence not withstanding the party at whose instance it was taken objects. A copy of a will regularly authenticated, which was proved and admitted to record agreeably to the laws of Pennsylvania, proved and admitted to record in this State, is admissible evidence--Owings v. Ulerv ante 450. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 76.1 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak76 Admissibility in Evidence 307Ak76.1 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k86  Depositions) A deposition taken de bene esse at the instance of one party, and containing interrogatories propounded by the other and answers thereto, will be permitted to be used in evidence, notwithstanding the party at whose instance it was taken objects. Ejectment 142 k 76 142 Ejectment 142III Pleading and Evidence 142k76 k. Amended and supplemental pleadings. Most Cited Cases Plaintiff may amend his declaration in ejectment, so as to make the demise subsequent to the date of his title. Evidence 157 k 347 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k346 Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of Other  States 157k347 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases It was held that a copy of a grant, taken from the records in Virginia, and deposited in the register's office, in Kentucky, according to the statute respecting Kentucky records, was admissible in evidence. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was an ejectment brought by Barnett in the Court below to recover the possession of a tract of land lying in Bourbon county. The appellants were admitted defendants in that Court, and upon the trial of the general issue judgment was obtained against them. Part of the appellants appear to be infants under the age of twenty-one, and it is assigned for error that the Court erred in proceeding to trial without previously appointing a guardian to defend for them. This assignment must have been made upon a misconception of the record: for although not strictly formal, the record does substantially contain an appointment of guardians. It is also assigned for error, that the Court erred in permitting the appellee, Barnett, to amend the date of the demise laid in his declaration. The demise, as first laid, appears to have been of a date anterior to the accrual of Barnett's title; and after the appellants had filed their plea, but before trial, the Court upon the production of the deed under which Barnett claimed, permitted the amendment, so as to make the demise subsequent to the date of the deed. *2 In permitting the amendment we the think the Court acted strictly correct. Even after issue joined, the Court most clearly retained a discretionary power to allow amendments; and that discretion, we apprehend, was in the present instance properly exercised. The title of Barnett, as it accrued subsequent to the date of the demise laid in the declaration, certainly could not, according to the settled doctrine of the law, have been fully tried without an amendment; and as the demise is but a fiction, adopted for the purpose of trying the title, it was proper in the Court by amendment so to mould the demise as to attain a fair and full trial of the title. During the progress of the cause in the Court below, the appellants obtained a commission and took the deposition of a witness de bene esse; and on the trial the deposition containing the cross interrogatories of Barnett being in Court, he offered it in evidence to the jury, but against its admission the appellants objected, because it had been taken at their instance; and they have now assigned for error, that the Court erred in allowing the deposition to be used. We are unable to perceive any solid objection against the admission of the evidence. The appellants had every opportunity of a cross examination of the witness, and to require of Barnett again to take the deposition, would, without conducing in anywise to the purposes of justice, tend to an useless waste of time, and an unnecessary accumulation of costs. Objections were made on the trial to the authentication and proof of the will of Thomas Gist, under which Barnett derives his title; but we are of opinion the record of the County Court of Bourbon is amply sufficient to obviate every objection. From that record the will of Gist appears to have been regularly proved and admitted to record in the proper Court of Pennsylvania where he died, and a copy thereof, regularly authenticated, and after being properly proved, was also admitted to record in the County Court of Bourbon. These facts, thus proven by the record of the County Court, were clearly, according to the laws of this country, sufficient proof of the authenticity and execution of the will. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1817. Rogers v. Barnett 4 Bibb 480, 7 Ky. 480, 1817 WL 1056 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
