(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 472,  8 Ky. 472 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1051 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Elliot's Heirs v. Garrard et al. Apr. 19, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE BOURBON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Taxation 371 k 2919 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(L) Sale of Land for Nonpayment of Tax 371k2919 k. Sale of Lands of Persons Under  Disabilities, Nonresident, or Unknown. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 371k632) The revenue law of 1794 does not protect the lands of infants from sale for nonpayment of taxes. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appear from a decree of the court below, dismissing the appellants' bill, brought to obtain from the appellees a surrender of the legal title to the land in contest. The superior equity is asserted by the appellants, under an entry made in the name of their ancestor, Thomas Elliot, but which they admit was after being entered by them for taxation sold for the non-payment thereof, by the sheriff, and transferred by him to the appellee, Young. But as the sale was made whilst part of them were infants, they contend that it is not binding, and insist upon their right not only to compel the appellee, Young, to surrender his claim derived under the sale by the sheriff, but moreover contend, that the other appellees, claiming under adverse entries, should also be compelled to surrender their elder titles to the superior equity of the appellants, deduced through the entry of Elliott. The land claimed by the appellants, being thus admitted to have been sold and transferred by the sheriff, it follows, that unless the sale of that officer can be avoided, the appellees can not, in the present contest be compelled to surrender their elder title;--so that the first question that seems properly to demand the attention of this court, involves an enquiry into the authority of the sheriff to make the sale. And in making this inquiry, it is important to understand, correctly, the allegations of the appellants' bill as to the time when the sale must be understood to have been made; for as its legal effect must be determined by the laws then in force, it is plain, that neither laws subsequently enacted or previously repealed, should, in any respect, control the right of those deducing their claim under the sale. That the sale must be understood to have been made between the commencement of the year 1795, and November, 1798, we apprehend, from a strict attention to the allegations of the appellants' bill, there can be no doubt. That it was made before November, 1798, is perfectly clear; for it is not only alleged that the appellee, Young, after he became the purchaser, caused a survey to be made, but by the certificate of that survey, it, moreover, appears to have been executed in November, 1798. And that it was intended to allege the sale was made since 1795, there is, we apprehend, as little room to controvert. By contesting the validity of the sale, upon the single ground of the appellants' infancy, they certainly must be understood as admitting the authority of the sheriff to sell the lands of those of full age, for the non-payment of taxes, and as, according to the laws then in force, sheriffs were not permitted to sell anterior to 1795, it follows, pretty conclusively, that it was intended to allege the sale, to have been made since that period. *2 Assuming, then, that the sale was made between the years 1795 and 1798, it results that, the question of authority in the sheriff to sell, turns exclusively upon the import of the act of December, 1794. ( 1 Littell, 265.) The revenue laws, previously enacted,  (1 Littell, 71,) it is true, contains a provision in relation to the forfeiture of lands on account of failure to enter and pay the taxes, but as by the first section of the act of 1794, that provision is expressly repealed, it is obvious the act of 1792, ought not, and can not, bear upon the validity of the sale. Testing the case, then, by the act of 1794, we can have but little hesitation in affirming that the sheriff, notwithstanding part of the appellants may have been infants, had complete authority to sell the land. The revenue law of 1794 (1 Lit., 255), does not protect the lands of infants from sale for the non-payment of taxes, but it preserves the lands of infants from forfeiture, for omitting to enter them for taxation. That part of the act which enjoins upon the sheriff the collection of taxes, and prescribes his duty in making sale of lands, contains no reservation in favor of infants, or any others, whose lands may have been entered for taxation. But it is contended that the lands of infants should be construed not to come within the operation of the act, as well on account of the general indulgence which, upon the principles of the common law, is extended towards them, as from the just import of the second section of the act. That section, after declaring a forfeiture of all lands not entered for taxation according to its provisions, contains, moreover, a proviso, that nothing therein contained shall be construed to extend to the lands of infants, &c. By this proviso, we can not, however, suppose the legislature intended to save the rights of infants against any other neglect than that of not entering their lands for taxation. In terms, the proviso certainly extends to none others, and, by adopting it, the legislature have clearly indicated their understanding, that without it, the rights of infants could not, upon the common rules of construction, have been saved from the forfeiture previously declared by the act; and by providing against the forfeiture in the special case of a failure to enter lands for taxation, strongly implies an intention not to protect the rights of infants from any other provisions in the act. To confine the operation of the proviso to that special case, may, indeed, not have been without its policy. Whilst it is admitted that the interest of infants should be carefully guarded by the legislative enactments of the country, it is certainly proper that the privilege should be so controlled as not to permit it to be made the instrument of injustice or injury to others. Whether those whose lands are exposed to sale for the non-payment of taxes be infants or not, from the nature of the thing, can not be presumed to be known to others who may be disposed to purchase, and, consequently, to protect an infant against the effects of such a sale, might, and in every case, probably, would, subject the purchaser to an irreparable loss; whereas, by confining the privilege to the failure to enter the land for taxation without the voluntary act of the infant in making the entry, neither his interest, nor that of any other person, could, by the operation of the act, be in any respect affected. *3 The construction, therefore, thus calculated to protect the interest of purchasers, whilst it preserves the rights of infants, especially as it accords with the obvious import of the act, we have no hesitation to adopt. And upon such a construction, there is no doubt, but that the sheriff was authorized to sell the land claimed by the appellants. Having been divested of their interest in the land, therefore, by that sale, it is impossible they can be entitled to a surrender of the title from the appellees, and, consequently the court below decided correctly in dismissing their bill. The decree must be affirmed with cost. Pope, for appellants; Hardin, contra. Ky.App. 1819. Elliot's Heirs v. Garrard 1 A.K.Marsh. 472, 8 Ky. 472, 1819 WL 1051 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
