(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 288,  8 Ky. 288 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1363 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Allen F. M'Curdy v. Jeptha Dudley et al. Oct. 7, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF EROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 40 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(B) Form and Contents of Promissory Notes and Duebills 56k40 k. Statement as to Consideration. Most Cited  Cases By statute, a note for the payment of money imports a good consideration without the words "value received," and no consideration need be averred in declaring on the note. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: M'Curdy, by subscribing to a subscription paper, having promised to pay the defendants in error, in four quarterly installments, two hundred dollars, the first installment to be paid at such time as the commissioners, thereafter to be appointed to superintend the building of the capitol in Frankfort, should direct, and failing to pay the same, the defendants brought this suit, and obtained a judgment for the amount, with damages and cost. To reverse the judgment, M'Curdy has prosecuted this writ of error, and relies for a reversal upon the ground of the court below having erred in overruling his demurrer to the defendants' declaration, and in refusing to direct the jury as in case of a nonsuit. The action being founded upon the written promise of M'Curdy to pay the $200, there cannot be a doubt but that, if the writing, although in the nature of a subscription, had been under seal, an action of debt might, before the passage of the act of 1812, regulating proceedings in civil cases, have been maintained upon it; and so, as the writing appears to have been subscribed by M'Curdy since the passage of that act, it must, as respects the nature of the action and forms of proceeding, assume the dignity of a sealed instrument, and consequently there can have been no necessity for the defendants to allege in the declaration any special consideration for the undertaking of M'Curdy. Since the passage of the act of 1812, ch. 375, sec. 8 (session acts of 1811, page 83), promissory writings though not under seal, assume the dignity of sealed papers, and no averment of consideration is necessary. (Query by Rep. Can an action on the case be now maintained on such writing?) The act of 1814 (appointing commissioners to collect the subscription money for rebuilding the capitol) is silent as to the mode in which suits should be brought, the mode remains as before, and the suit is properly brought in the name of the payee. Where the knowledge of a fact is presumed to rest as properly with a defendant as with a plaintiff, no evidence of actual notice to a defendant is necessary. But it is contended that, as by the act of 1814, the commissioners appointed by the legislature are authorized not only to receive the subscriptions, but are required to collect the same, the action should have been brought in the name of the commissioners, and not in the name of the defendants. *2 The act alluded to is altogether silent as to the mode of proceeding which should be adopted in prosecuting suits for the recovery of any sums which either had been or might thereafter be subscribed, and although according to its provisions, payment made to the commissioners might be considered a sufficient discharge, yet according to the settled rules of proceedings in such cases, for a failure to pay, the action should be brought, as it has been in this instance by those to whom the promise of payment was made. As therefore the action was properly brought in the names of the defendants in error, and as no consideration was necessary to be laid in the declaration, the court below, as those are the only objections taken in the demurrer, properly overruled it. But it is again contended, that as the time of paying the installments is made to depend upon the order and direction of the commissioners, to enable the defendants to recover, they should have proven that M'Curdy was notified of such an order; and hence it is insisted that as no evidence other than that of an advertisement having been inserted in one of the newspapers in Frankfort, was introduced, the court below ought to have instructed the jury as in case of a nonsuit. We are, however, of opinion, that no evidence of such a notice was necessary to enable the defendants to maintain their action. From the subscription it is evident, the commissioners alluded to, were, by the mutual understanding of the parties, to be appointed by the legislature. A knowledge of those persons therefore, or their acts and orders, would not more properly be with the defendant in error than with the plaintiff, and in such a case it is well settled, that notice is unnecessary. 5 Com. Dig. 367. The judgment must therefore be affirmed with cost. Bibb for plaintiff in error. Ky.App. 1818. McCurdy v. Dudley 1 A.K.Marsh. 288, 8 Ky. 288, 1818 WL 1363 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
