(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 521,  8 Ky. 521 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1066 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Benjamin Day v. Clarke's Administrator. May 28, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Payment 294 k 55 294 Payment 294IV Proceedings to Establish Payment 294k55 k. Nature of Defense in General. Most Cited Cases A payment which, added to former payments, discharges the plaintiff's demand, is properly pleaded in bar, and not by way of set-off. Pleading 302 k 15 302 Pleading 302I Form and Allegations in General 302k15 k. Adoption of Allegations in Other Pleadings. Most Cited Cases A plea, referring to a fact which appears in another part of the pleadings, which are made part of the record, is substantially good, without specially reciting the fact. Bonds 58 k 129 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k129 k. Evidence. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k130) A bond of a stranger, placed by a debtor in the hands of his creditor for collection, will be presumed as paid, unless it is returned or offered to be returned in a reasonable time. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This action was brought by Day, as the assignee of Edward Edrington, upon a bond given by Clarke for the payment of l1354 00 5, Virginia currency, equal to $4513.40 Kentucky currency. Clarke having departed this life, and the suit being revived against his administrator, he pleaded four several pleas, but the second being demurred to, was adjudged insufficient, and issues in fact being taken to the other three verdict and judgment were obtained in favor of the administrator. From that judgment Day has appealed to this court, and has assigned for error-- 1st. The pleas 3 and 4 are uncertain and insufficient. 2d. The said pleas are each improperly pleaded in bar, instead of by way of discount. 3d. The court erred in withholding the instructions asked as in the bill of exceptions stated. By the third plea, the administrator alleges, that Day, "his action ought not to have and maintain, because he says that Day was indebted to the intestate in his life-time before and after the commencement of this suit, in the sum of l161 2 4 1/2, with interest from the ...day of...in the year of... for the like sum received by said Day, to the use and benefit of the intestate before that time, which sum," the administrators avers, "is still due," and which he pleads, in addition to the sum the intestate, in his life-time paid Day, (as by endorsements on the writing declared on show,) in bar of the action--and concludes with a verification, &c. By the 4th plea, he says, Day, "his action ought not to have and maintain, because, he says, that on the 18th of July, 1800, at Fredericksburgh, to-wit, in the circuit aforesaid, it was agreed by and between the said Day and the intestate Clarke, that Clarke should deliver over to Day a certain bond which Clarke held on one James M'Donald of Virginia, for the payment to said Clarke of l161 2 4 1/2, Virginia currency, which sum was then due, and owing by said M'Donald to Clarke, and that Day should receive said bond for collection, and when collected, the amount collected thereon he should credit on the obligation sued on, and says that said Clarke did then and there for the purpose aforesaid and in execution of the agreement on his part, deliver over to said Day the obligation on M'Donald aforesaid, and says the said Day did afterwards, to-wit, on the...day of ...collect the amount due on said bond, to-wit, the sum of... which said Day never credited upon the obligation sued on;" which sum he pleads, in addition to the sums which the said Clarke paid Day, as by endorsements in the obligation sued on show, in bar of the action and by way of set off, and after praying judgment for the balance, concludes with a verification, &c. *2 It is contended that each of those pleas, in not averring specifically the amount of payments made by Clarke, are defective, but the failure to charge the amount, though not formally we apprehend is substantially supplied by the endorsements referred to in the pleas, and which, by other parts of the pleadings, are made part of the record of this case. A plea referring to a fact, which appears in another part of the record, is substantially good without specially reciting the fact. A payment which, when added to former payments, discharges the plaintiff's demand, is properly pleaded in bar, and not by way of set off. And as those payments, in connection with the l161 2 4 1/2, mentioned in the pleas, exceed the sum stipulated for in the bond upon which this suit is founded, they plainly import sufficient matter of defense, and, consequently, must have been regularly pleaded in bar of the action. And with respect to the decision of the court, contained in the bill of exceptions, no error is perceived. By the exceptions, it appears, that after the defendant had proven the receipt, by Day, of the bond on M'Donald, as alleged in his fourth plea, the court, on Day's motion, refused to instruct the jury, that the fourth plea could not be supposed, unless the defendant proved the amount of the note on M'Donald had been collected by Day. If the decision were understood to dispense with any evidence whatever of the receipt of the money from M'Donald, we should have no doubt the court erred; but, by the instructions asked for, we apprehend, it was intended by the counsel of Day, and so understood by the court, to obtain a decision, requiring other evidence of the collection of the money by Day, than that resulting from the fact of his having about thirteen years before the commencement of this action, received the note, and failing either to return or offer to return it to Clarke or his administrator, and as we suppose, the jury might, from those circumstances, have presumed the receipt of the money by Day, it can not have been improper to refuse to instruct the jury, as required by the counsel of Day. A bond on a stranger, placed in the hands of a creditor for collection, will be presumed as paid unless it is returned or offered to be returned in a reasonable time. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with cost, and damages. Bibb for plaintiff, Hardin for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1819. Day v. Clarke's Adm'r 1 A.K.Marsh. 521, 8 Ky. 521, 1819 WL 1066 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
