(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 454,  8 Ky. 454 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1037 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. James Crisson v. David Williamson et al. Apr. 13, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 419 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k411 Sufficiency of Notice of Nonpayment and of Protest 56k419 k. Form and Requisites. Most Cited  Cases Notice to an indorser by the notary protesting a bill of exchange that it was delivered for protest on account of nonpayment is sufficient to bind him. Bills and Notes 56 k 459 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k458 Parties Defendant 56k459 k. In General. Most Cited Cases In an action on a bill of exchange drawn in Kentucky and accepted in Pennsylvania against the drawers, acceptors, and indorsers, all must be made parties thereto. Bills and Notes 56 k 460 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k458 Parties Defendant 56k460 k. Joinder. Most Cited Cases The Kentucky statute of 1798 gives the holder of a bill a joint action against the drawer and indorsers, or a surviving indorser where one has died. But it does not apply to bills drawn by persons residing in one state upon others residing in another state. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: On the 30th of July, 1814, Williamson, at Lexington, drew a bill of exchange requiring Messrs. Neil and Hurly, merchants at Philadelphia, to pay John W. Hunt, sixty days after sight, twenty-five hundred dollars. The bill was afterwards, by Hunt, assigned to James and David M'Coun, and by them assigned to John W. Tilford, and him assigned to Crisson. Upon the bill being presented to Neil and Hurley, it was accepted by them, but payment being refused, it was regularly protested for non-payment; whereupon this suit was brought in the circuit court against the drawer, acceptors, and the endorsers, M'Couns and Hunt, but without joining Tilford, the other endorser, in the action. Whether, therefore, the action, in its present form, can be sustained, is the first inquiry to which the attention of this court will be directed. There is no doubt but, according to the lex mercatoria, that each of the endorsers, as well as the drawer and acceptor, are liable to the action of the holder of the bill; but as their liability is not produced from a joint, but from a several undertaking, it is plain that, upon common law principles, this action should conform to the undertaking; and in this respect the lex mercatoria recognizes and pursues the rules of the common law, it follows, that unless authorized by statute, the action can not, in its present form, be sustained. By the law of merchants as well as the common law, there must be several actions v. the drawer, endorsers and acceptors of a protested bill of exchange. *2 We are, however, unable to find any statute which, in our opinion, ought to be construed to alter the doctrine of the common law upon the subject. By the second section of the act of February, 1798, concerning bills of exchange, (2 Lit. 101), it is true, a joint action is given against the drawers and endorsers of foreign bills; but, as by the same act, the legislature have clearly discriminated between foreign bills and those drawn by persons residing in one state, upon others residing in another of the United States, it is plain the present action, as it is founded upon a bill of the latter description, can not be controlled by the provisions of that section. If it were, still an order to conform to the act, the action should be joint against all, it would be irregular, as appears to have been the case in the present instance, to sue part of the endorsers only. The statute of Kentucky (2 Lit., 101), gives a joint action in the case of foreign bills only, leaving (as to the mode of suit) the other kinds of bills as they stood at common law. We would not, however, be understood as deciding that, by the section alluded to, the holder of a foreign bill is deprived of any remedy to which he might, upon the principles of the common law, have resorted; but as at common law the action should be several upon the respective liabilities, so now, since the passage of the act, it must either be several, at at common law, or joint against all, as directed by the statute, and consequently to unite several parties, in the same action, who are under separate and distinct liabilities, without joining all, against whom the act directs it to be brought, must be irregular. In the case of a foreign bill, the statute does not restrain the holder from bringing several actions against the drawer, &c., but if he chooses to depart from the common law he must pursue the statute and unite all concerned. But with respect to the action, upon the bill now in question, the act alluded to appears to have produced no change in the doctrine of the common law. By the fifth section of the act cited, it is true, the drawer of a bill upon any person within the United States, and all others concerned, are, upon the bill being returned unpaid, compelled to pay its contents, with legal interest thereon together with ten per centum damages and cost. But from the phraseology of the section, it is obvious the legislature can not have intended to alter the mode of action by which the holder of the bill should seek relief, but designed barely to regulate the amount which, in the legitimate form of action, might be recovered. As in the present case, therefore, several persons are joined, who, if liable, must be made so upon their separate and respective undertakings, the action can not be sustained, and consequently the court below should have sustained the demurrer of the appellees to the appellant's declaration. But as that court overruled the demurrer, and rendered judgment against the appellant upon the verdict of the jury found upon the trial of an issue taken to the plea of non-assumpsit, it is proper we should moreover inquire whether the instructions of the court, under which the verdict was obtained, can be sustained? *3 Those instructions involve the inquiry, whether or not the notice given to Hunt, one of the appellees, is sufficient to maintain the appellant's action. Notice of protest sent by a notary public and by an endorser, is sufficient notice to such endorser of the protest. The circumstance of the notice having been transmitted by mail from Philadelphia when payment was refused, as was decided in the case of  Lawrence against Ralston, 3 Bibb, 102, certainly affords no objection to it. And although it appears to have been sent by the notary public, and may be admitted to be very informal, yet as it purports a notification to Hunt, of the bill, on account of non-payment, having been delivered for protest, we apprehend, no other notice, as to Hunt, ought to have been required in order to subject him to the appellant's action. The court below, therefore, erred in instructing the jury that the notice was insufficient, and the judgment must consequently be reversed with cost, and the cause remanded to that court; but as the action can not be sustained against all the appellees upon their several undertakings, judgment must be then rendered against the appellant upon the demurrer. Pope for plaintiff, Wickliffe contra. Ky.App. 1819. Crisson v. Williamson 1 A.K.Marsh. 454, 8 Ky. 454, 1819 WL 1037 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
