(Cite as: 4 Bibb 104,  7 Ky. 104 (Ky.),  1815 WL 682 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hardin, etc. v. Major, agent, etc. Jun. 10, 1815. *1 On a bond given to one agent of the penitentiary for the use of the institution, an action is maintainable by another agent, his successor in office by virtue of that succession. "Months" in an obligation construed to mean calendar months. The rate of interest must be specified in the judgment. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 223 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(A) Rendition, Form, and Requisites in General 228k221 Designation of Amount 228k223 k. Interest. Most Cited  Cases The rate of interest should be expressed, in a judgment for a debt and interest. Prisons 310 k 401 310 Prisons 310V Officers and Employees 310k401 k. Bonds. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 310k11) On a bond given to one agent of the penitentiary for the use of the institution, an action is maintainable by another agent, his successor in office, by virtue of that succession. Time 378 k 5 378 Time 378k5 k. Months. Most Cited Cases In the case of bills of exchange, promissory notes, and other commercial contracts, a month is always a calendar month. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE appellants, on the 22d of January, 1811, gave their obligation to pay, eighteen months after date, to John Watkins, agent of the penitentiary, or his successor in office, the sum of $1500, with interest on the whole sum for six months. The amount not being paid according to the stipulations of the obligation, the appellee brought suit in the Court below, as the successor in office of John Watkins, and obtained a judgment for the amount thereof, with lawful interest from six months previous to the time of payment until paid. To reverse this judgment the appellants have brought the case to this Court. The objections to the sufficiency of the obligation cannot be sustained. It plainly and obviously imports an obligation to pay John Watkins, for the benefit of the penitentiary institution. The action we suppose was properly brought by the appellee, as the successor of Watkins. The law having created the office of agent, and provided for the appointment of an agent, and in case of a vacancy in that office having also farther provided for supplying that vacancy by farther appointments, must in legal estimation be considered the creation of an officer with regular succession. The declaration contains substantially all necessary averments. It contains a sufficiency to show the obligation was given for the use of the institution, and that the suit was brought by the appellee as the successor of the obligor in that character. The judgment correctly gave interest for six calendar months before the note was payable; for although time is in many instances computed according to lunar months, obligations should be construed according to the usual acceptation of the term used; and it is believed according to the the usual understanding, calendar months would be understood by expressions such as are used in the present obligation. According however to repeated decisions of this Court, the rate of interest should have been named in the judgment; and because that was not done, the judgment must be reversed. The cause must be remanded to the Court below, and judgment there entered for the debt in the obligation mentioned, with interest at the rate of six per centum per annum from the period of six calendar months before the obligation became payable until paid, etc. The appellants must recover their costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Hardin v. Major 4 Bibb 104, 7 Ky. 104, 1815 WL 682 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
