(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 587,  8 Ky. 587 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1097 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Samuel Baker v. Arthur Hopkins. Jun. 12, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BARREN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Malicious Prosecution 249 k 55 249 Malicious Prosecution 249V Actions 249k46 Pleading 249k55 k. Issues, Proof, and Variance. Most Cited  Cases In an action for malicious prosecution, the character of the defendant for veracity is not a proper subject of inquiry, unless made so by the pleadings. Appearance 31 k 23 31 Appearance 31k21 Waiver of Objections 31k23 k. Venue or Change of Venue. Most Cited Cases Venue 401 k 84 401 Venue 401III Change of Venue or Place of Trial 401k84 k. Objections and Exceptions, Estoppel, and Waiver. Most Cited Cases After a change of venue, a party appearing to the action in the court to which it is removed waives his right to complain of any irregularity in the manner of change. Venue 401 k 84 401 Venue 401III Change of Venue or Place of Trial 401k84 k. Objections and Exceptions, Estoppel, and Waiver. Most Cited Cases It is too late, after verdict, to except to the regularity of the change of venue. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment of the Barren circuit court rendered in favor of Hopkins in an action brought against him by Baker. The declaration contains two counts--one for a malicious prosecution, and the other for slanderous words. The action was commenced in the Cumberland court, but tried in Barren, upon issues to pleas filed in the latter court. It is too late after verdict to object that the venue has not been regularly changed. There is nothing in the record shewing how the cause was remanded to Barren.-- But no exceptions to the regularity of the removal was taken until after a verdict was found for Hopkins. Had exceptions been taken in proper time, there is no doubt but that the Barren court could not have tried the cause without its having been regularly removed. But as the subject matter in contest is equally cognizable in both courts, we are of opinion that after verdict the cause should be presumed to have been regularly remanded and the Barren court consequently decided correctly in refusing to enquire into the propriety of the removal, on the motion in arrest of judgment. But it is contended that the court erred in refusing to permit the plaintiff to prove to the jury that the defendant was not a man of truth, and unworthy of credit upon oath. The veracity of the defendant not having been put in issue by the pleadings in the cause, an enquiry into his character, as a man of truth, certainly did not regularly form the subject of legitimate enquiry. But as what he had sworn, on the trial of the prosecution, had been proven, it is urged that the plaintiff should, on that account, have been permitted to make the enquiry into his character. *2 In an action for a malicious prosecution, the character of the defendant in relation to his veracity is not a proper subject of enquiry, unless made so by the pleadings. It must be recollected, however, that the evidence of what the defendant had previously sworn, was introduced by the plaintiff, and although, if pursued by the defendant it might have been repelled by the plaintiff, we suppose that having been introduced by the plaintiff, he can not have been thereby privileged to use evidence otherwise foreign to the issue and inadmissible. It is true, that after evidence of what the defendant had sworn on the former trial had been introduced by the plaintiff, the defendant made an enquiry of the same witness, by whom what he had sworn had been proven, in relation to the same matter, but as that enquiry was proved by the defendant for the purpose of ascertaining the whole of the facts in relation to the subject about which the plaintiff had commenced the examination, the circumstance of the defendant having made the the enquiry, we apprehend, can not have rendered an enquiry into his character admissible. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. B. Hardin for appellant, Talbot for appellee. Ky.App. 1819. Baker v. Hopkins 1 A.K.Marsh. 587, 8 Ky. 587, 1819 WL 1097 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
