(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 219,  9 Ky. 219 (Ky.),  1820 WL 997 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Gibbs v. Asa Tucker. Apr. 17, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Libel and Slander 237 k 7(14) 237 Libel and Slander 237I Words and Acts Actionable, and Liability Therefor 237k7 Words Imputing Crime and Immorality 237k7(14) k. Perjury and Subornation of Perjury. Most Cited  Cases Words charging a person with swearing falsely in a cause depending in a court of competent jurisdiction are actionable as slanderous. Appeal and Error 30 k 1003 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(I) Questions of Fact, Verdicts, and Findings 30XVI(I)2 Verdicts 30k1003 k. Against Weight of Evidence. Most Cited  Cases A verdict or finding by the jury will not be disturbed as against the evidence because of a mere preponderance of evidence against it, but will be set aside only when it is palpably against the weight of evidence, or clearly shows that the jury were mistaken, or were influenced by passion, prejudice, or corruption. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action brought by Tucker against Gibbs for the speaking of slanderous words. The words charged in the declaration are--are that in speaking of, and referring to, the evidence which Tucker had given on oath in a suit determined in the Clarke cir-court, Gibbs said, that he (Tucker meaning) had sworn falsely in detailing his testimony. Gibbs pleaded, 1st. Not guilty--and 2d. That Tucker in detailing his evidence in the cause determined in the Clarke circuit court, did swear falsely. Issues were taken to the first plea, and the replication of Tucker to the second plea; and a jury being called to try the issues, found a verdict in favor of Tucker. Whereupon, the counsel of Gibbs moved the court for a new trial, on the ground of the verdict being against evidence; but the motion was overruled, and judgment rendered in conformity with the verdict. From that judgment Gibbs appealed. The errors assigned present two questions--1. The actionability of the words charged in the declaration; and 2, the correctness of the court's refusal to grant a new trial. With respect to the first question we entertain no doubt the words are actionable. Although, to charge a person in general terms of having sworn to a lie, or sworn falsely, is admitted not to be actionable, the position is incontrovertibly settled, that, for a charge of having sworn falsely in a judicial proceeding before a court of competent jurisdiction, an action may be sustained. Words charging generally that a man swore falsely are not actionable, aliter, if the words charge him with swearing falsely in a cause depending before a court of competent jurisdiction. But with respect to the second question, we are of opinion a new trial should have been awarded. If the trial had been exclusively upon the general issue, as the words laid in the declaration are proven to have been spoken by Tucker, we should not have considered ourselves authorized to overturn the finding of the jury, but upon adverting to the evidence detailed in the bill of exceptions, we are convinced that Gibbs' plea of justification was fully supported by the evidence introduced by him; and we are unable to perceive any opposing evidence which the jury, in the exercise of their legitimate province, in deciding upon the weight of testimony, can have founded their verdict in favor of Tucker. *2 If a jury find against a party who has supported his issue, and no opposing testimony, a new trial should be awarded. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the circuit court, and further proceedings had consistent with this opinion. Hardin, for appellant; Wickliffe, for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Gibbs v. Tucker 2 A.K.Marsh. 219, 9 Ky. 219, 1820 WL 997 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
