(Cite as: 3 Bibb 432,  6 Ky. 432 (Ky.),  1814 WL 814 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bernard, etc. v. Johnston and wife. Oct. 7, 1814. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 157(4) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k157 Accrual or Release of Liability by Breach or Fulfillment of Conditions 353k157(4) k. Acts or Omissions Covered in General. Most  Cited Cases Before the passing of the statute of 1820, a constable's official bond did not extend to his default in not accounting for securities received and collected by him without suit. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS was an action brought by the defendants in error on a constable's bond. The plaintiffs in error having failed to plead, judgment was had against them by default and a writ of inquiry awarded, and on the execution of the writ of inquiry seventy-six pounds damages were assessed by the jury, and judgment awarded accordingly. To reverse this judgment the plaintiffs in error have prosecuted this writ of error. The amount of notes put into the hands of a constable and collected, without any process to him directed, cannot be recovered by action on his office bond. The declaration is manifestly erroneous, and for that cause the judgment must be reversed. The assignment of breaches is evidently insufficient. They contain no allegation whereby it appears the condition of the constable's bond has been broken. It is true it is alleged in the declaration that the constable received notes from Mr. Johnston, and collected the amount thereof, and has failed and refused to account and pay over the same; but there is no averment in the declaration that by the condition of the bond the constable was bound to collect notes put into his hands, nor does it appear from anything in the declaration what is the extent of the condition. If, however, the condition of the bond conforms to the requisitions of the law, it is clear, unless the money was collected by the constable under some legal process, that a failure to account therefor or pay the amount thereof cannot amount to a breach of the condition. Whether, therefore, the declaration is considered as containing no allegation of the extent of the condition of the bond, or the assignment of breaches is made to apply to a condition such as the law prescribes, in either point of view the declaration is clearly defective. The objection taken to the bond in the assignment of errors, we have thought unnecessary to notice: for as the judgment must be reversed and the plaintiff in the Court below may have leave to amend his declaration, that objection may be removed. The judgment must be reversed with costs; the cause remanded to the Court below, and the plaintiff there have leave to amend his declaration, should he apply for leave so to do; but should he not apply for such leave, that his suit be dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Bernard v. Johnston 3 Bibb 432, 6 Ky. 432, 1814 WL 814 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
