(Cite as: 4 Bibb 27,  7 Ky. 27 (Ky.),  1815 WL 640 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bane's heirs, etc. v. M'Meekin. Apr. 19, 1815. *1 A demurrer brings the whole pleading before the Court and judgmentmust be given against him who committed the first fault. In covenant to convey a tract of land on or before the 1st of September 1808, the obligee first paying to obligor the price of 82l. 10s. the declaration must aver payment or tender and refusal before the day appointed for the conveyance. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 217(1) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k217 Effect of Demurrer as Opening Record 302k217(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases General demurrer searches entire record, and should be sustained against first defective pleading. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 349 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(B) Actions for Breach of Contract 400k349 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases In covenant to convey land on or before a certain date, the obligee first paying the consideration, the declaration must aver payment or tender and a refusal before the day appointed for the conveyance. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. JOSEPH BANE, the ancestor of the appellants, having sold to John Newhouse, the assignor of the appellee, a tract of land, on the 1st day of November, 1806, gave his bond, conditioned "to convey by deed with general warranty to the said Newhouse, the aforesaid tract of land, on or before the 1st day of September, 1808; he, the said Newhouse, first paying the said Bane the sum of 82l.i 10is. the balance due of the purchase money," etc. Bane having departed this life, Newhouse assigned the bond to M'Meekin, who brought this action of covenant against the administrator and heirs of Bane, upon the condition of the bond. The declaration, after setting forth the bond and condition, alleges for breach, the failure of said Joseph Bane in his lifetime to convey the land, as well as that of his representative since, although the plaintiff on the _____ day of _____ tendered to Thomas Hite, the administrator of Bane, the balance of the purchase money, with interest, which he refused to receive, etc. Several pleas appear to have been filed by some one of the defendants, but by whom does not very satisfactorily appear; nor is it material it should, for the purpose of the present inquiry. A demurrer was filed to one of the pleas by the plaintiff in the Court below, and that Court being of opinion the plea was insufficient, sustained the demurrer. Issues of fact were made up on the other pleas; but as no question occurs in relation to those pleas, it is thought unnecessary more particularly to notice them. On the trial of the issues of fact, a verdict was obtained by the plaintiff in that Court, and judgment entered accordingly. From this judgment the defendants there have appealed to this Court. The only question we deem material to notice in deciding this case, is as to the sufficiency of the declaration; and in making this inquiry, it must be recollected that the declaration stands liable to every objection which can be available on a general demurrer: for as the plaintiff in the Court below has filed a demurrer to one of the defendant's pleas, he has thereby brought all the previous pleadings before the Court, and judgment should have been rendered on the demurrer against him in whom the first fault in pleading should be ascertained. *2 Considering then the objection to the declaration as upon a demurrer, we have no doubt but it is defective. It is obvious from the condition recited in the declaration, that the payment of the 82l.i 10is. was a precedent condition to the conveyance of the land; and as that condition was to be performed on or before the 1st day of September, 1808, the declaration should have contained an averment of its having been so performed, or made out by apt and appropriate averments a sufficient excuse for the failure. This we, however, suppose has not been done in the present case: for although the plaintiff has averred in his declaration a tender of the balance due to the administrator of Bane, when that tender was made does not appear; and as an offer to pay could not excuse the failure of payment, unless made on or before the 1st of September, 1808, the declaration, to be good, should have expressly alleged the tender to have been made against that period. The judgment of the Court below must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause remained to that Court and the plaintiff there have leave to amend his declaration, should he apply for leave to do so; and such farther proceedings be there had as may be necessary to a final decision. Ky.App. 1815. Bane's Heirs v. McMeekin 4 Bibb 27, 7 Ky. 27, 1815 WL 640 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
