(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 391,  19 Ky. 391 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1324 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cobb v. The Commonwealth for Beaty. Dec. 19, 1826. *1 Appeals to this Court. Error. Sheriff's Bonds. Officers' Fees. Breaches. APPEAL FROM THE ESTILL CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 168(1) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k160 Actions 353k168 Pleading 353k168(1) k. Declaration, Complaint, or Petition. Most  Cited Cases In declaring on a sheriff's bond, for his failure to collect an account for officers' fee bills, it must be alleged that the fees were due and owing to the relator. Appeal and Error 30 k 383 30 Appeal and Error 30VII Transfer of Cause 30VII(C) Payment of Fees or Costs, and Bonds or Other Securities 30k383 k. Conditions of Bond or Undertaking. Most Cited  Cases A bond is not insufficient because not in the language of the statute, where whatever would be a breach in the condition expressed in the language of the act would be a breach of the condition of the bond. Bonds 58 k 31 58 Bonds 58I Requisites and Validity 58k31 k. Statutory Bonds and Bonds Taken by Officers. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k32) When the substance of a bond is prescribed by statute, if the bond be so drawn as to include substantially all the obligations imposed by the statute, and to allow every defense given by law, it will be valid, though slightly variant from the form prescribed. Appeal and Error 30 k 56 30 Appeal and Error 30III Decisions Reviewable 30III(C) Amount or Value in Controversy 30k55 Amount or Value of Recovery 30k56 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The right of appeal, in Kentucky, is determined by the nominal amount of the judgment, not the sum by which it may be discharged. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action of debt, brought in the name of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, for the use of Henry Beaty, against Cobb, as late sheriff of Estill county, upon his official bond. Debt on sheriff's official bond. The trial was had upon an agreement of the parties, that Cobb might avail himself, in defense, of any matter that could be specially pleaded; and after a verdict was found for the plaintiff in the court below, Cobb moved that court to arrest the judgment, and also for a new trial, but both motions were overruled and judgment rendered-- Motion in arrest of judgment--overruled. "That the commonwealth for the use of Beaty, recover of Cobb, three thousand dollars, the debt in the declaration mentioned to be discharged by the payment of sixty-two dollars, the damages assessed by the jury in their verdict and cost." Judgment for plaintiff. From that judgment Cobb appealed. *2 Before we examine the questions raised by the assignment of errors, it is proper to dispose of preliminary objections taken to the appeal by the counsel of the plaintiff in the court below. It is the nominal amount of the judgment, not the sum by which it may be discharged, that determines the right to an appeal to this court. It is first objected that the appeal was improvidently granted by the court below. The judgment was rendered in October, 1824, and the objection to the regularity of the appeal, is taken upon the supposition, that the judgment is for a less sum than from which, according to the then existing law an appeal was allowable. When the judgment relates neither to a franchise nor freehold, no appeal was then allowed, unless it amounted, exclusive of costs, to thirty pounds, so that whether or not the appeal was improvidently granted, turns upon the construction to be given the judgment. That there can not be collected from Cobb more than sixty-two dollars, besides cost, under the judgment, is so obviously evident, none can for a moment doubt, after looking at the judgment. But it is equally evident that the judgment is for more, though it may be discharged by the payment of less than one hundred dollars. The action is founded upon the official bond, and was brought to recover the penalty, and according to strict technical propriety, the judgment is for three thousand dollars, the amount of the penalty, though less than thirty pounds, is collectable; therefore, the judgment of the court, in legal strictness, is for more; and whenever the judgment is for that amount, without regard to the sum by which it may be discharged, the party against whom it is rendered, has a right to demand, and the court of original jurisdiction is bound to grant him an appeal. The appeal was not, therefore, improvidently granted to Cobb. It is again objected that the appeal bond is insufficient, the condition not being as comprehensive as that which is required by the Act of Assembly. The condition subjoined to the bond is not in the words prescribed in the act, nor do we think it necessary that it should be. Though not in the language of the act, if as comprehensive as the act requires, the condition of every essential purpose must be sufficient. The substance and not the form should direct us in forming an opinion upon the goodness of a bond of this sort; and after examining the condition of the bond in question, we have been unable to discover any defect which, according to any fair construction, may be prejudicial to the interest of the appellee. We understand the condition to be as comprehensive as that required by the act, and that whatever would be a breach of a condition, expressed in the language of the Act, would be a breach of the condition in question. It is not necessary for the condition of an appeal bond to be in the form prescribed by the statute, it is sufficient that it is of the same legal effect. Having disposed of the preliminary objections, we shall proceed to the questions made by the assignment of errors. *3 The first question growing out of the assignment of errors, and which it is proper to notice, involves an inquiry into the sufficiency of the declaration. The declaration is nowhere expressly excepted to by the assignment of errors, but the decision of the court below, in refusing to arrest the judgment, is complained of, and in revising that decision, we are necessarily brought to examine the goodness of the declaration. Assignment of error in the decision of the circuit court, against a motion in arrest of judgment, brings the declaration before this court. Declaration on the sheriff's official bond. The object of the action was to recover from Cobb, as late sheriff of Estill county, the amount of fee bills put into the hands of his deputy, Abner W. Quinn, for collection, by the relator, Beaty. The declaration sets out the official bond of Cobb, together with the condition thereunder written, and after averring that, subsequent to the execution of the bond, Cobb had Abner W. Quinn qualified as his deputy sheriff, the declaration alleges, that the relator, Beaty, on the 9th day of August, 1821, listed with said Quinn as deputy aforesaid, officers' fee bills on persons living in Estill county, for collection to the amount of sixty-six dollars, and took his receipt therefor. And for breach, the declaration moreover alleges-- Breach in failure to account for officers' fees. "That the said Cobb has not kept and performed the condition of said bond, but has broken the same in this, that the said Abner W. Quinn, did not collect o?? account for, or pay the fees or any part of them, put in his hands as above stated, in such time and in such manner as is directed by law, nor has the said Cobb paid the said Beaty the amount of said fee bills, or any part thereof." & c. As the action is brought in the name of the Commonwealth, for the benefit of Beaty, it is scarcely necessary to premise, that the declaration, to be sufficient, should contain a breach of the condition of the official bond, to the injury of Beaty. It is only such as have been injured by a breach of the condition, the law has authorized to bring an action upon the bond, and of course, whenever the bond is put in suit, the injury sustained by the relator must be distinctly set out in the declaration. Tested by this rule, the declaration in question can not, we apprehend be sustained. It was no doubt incumbent upon Cobb, either in person or by deputy, to receive, collect and account for, to the person entitled, such fee bills as by the duties of his office he was bound to collect, and for a refusal to receive, or a failure to collect and account for such fee bills, he would be liable in an action upon his official bond. But his liability would be to the person entitled to the fee bills and in an action against him upon the bond, the right of the person for whom the action is brought, ought to be set out in the declaration. Such does not, however, appear to have been done in the present case. The fee bills which are alleged to have been delivered to the deputy of Cobb, and for the failure to collect and account for which this suit is brought, are nowhere alleged in the declaration to have been due and owing to Beaty, nor is there anything contained in the declaration from which it can be fairly inferred, that Beaty was entitled to them. *4 In the declaration on sheriff's bond for failing to collect and account for officers' fee bills, it must appear, that, the fees were due, and owing to the relator. Besides, to charge Cobb upon his official bond, for fee bills received by his deputy, the fee bills should appear to be such as by the duties of his office he was bound to receive and collect; but from any statement in the declaration, it is impossible to know the nature or true character of the fee bills which were received by the deputy. They are alleged to be officers' fee bills; but what officers, whether such as had a right or not to have their fee bills collected by a sheriff, is nowhere suggested in the declaration. It must also appear what fees they are and that they are such as the sheriff is authorised to collect. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further procedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Mandate. Caperton, for appellant; Hanson and Turner, for appellee. Ky.App. 1826. Cobb v. Commonwealth 3 T.B.Mon. 391, 19 Ky. 391, 1826 WL 1324 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
