(Cite as: 3 Bibb 278,  6 Ky. 278 (Ky.),  1814 WL 757 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Owing's executor, etc. v. Myers, etc. Apr. 9, 1814. West Headnotes Lis Pendens 242 k 24(6) 242 Lis Pendens 242k23 Purchasers Pending Suit 242k24 In General 242k24(6) k. Actions for Specific Performance. Most Cited  Cases One who purchases land from a party to a pending suit, to enforce the specific performance of a contract for the sale thereof, is concluded by the judgment in the suit. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 228(2) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(C) Bona Fide Purchasers 400k225 Notice 400k228 Effect of  Notice 400k228(2) k. Prior Contract of Sale or Conveyance  by Vendor in General. Most Cited Cases A. having given his bond for the conveyance of 1,000 acres of land, to be at the election of the holder, out of a 5,000-acre tract then owned by A., sold 4,000 acres, the upper end of the 5,000-acre tract.  A bill for conveyance was brought by the holders of the bond, alleging an election to satisfy said bond out of the 4,000 acres. While the bill was pending, the purchaser of the 4,000-acre tract sold to B. Held, that both B. (who showed no conveyance, and had purchased while the suit was pending) and his grantor should not be protected against the prior equity, express notice to B.'s grantor having been proved. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 JACOB MYERS received from Jacob Owings, dec'd, in his lifetime, money to purchase land warrants, and having obtained the warrants in his own name gave his obligation to Owings for the conveyance of 1000 acres of land, one half of the amount for which the warrants were obtained. After this Owings devised the land to Thomas, Joshua and Jesse Mummy, and made Samuel Mummy the executor of his will. After the decease of Owings, his executor, in February 1786, applied to Myers in the then district of Kentucky, and obtained from him an obligation conditioned for the conveyance of the 1000 acres, to be laid off on any end, side, corner or edge of a 5000 acre tract then held by Myers on Slate creek, near the Little Indian Fields, as might best suit said Mummy or his representatives. Sometime subsequent to this, Myers sold and executed a deed of conveyance to Ralph Morgan, one of the appellees, for 4000 acres, the upper end of the aforesaid 5000 acre tract; and during the pendency of the suit, Morgan sold to Swearingen, the other appellee. For the purpose of obtaining a conveyance to the 1000 acre tract, the executor and devisees aforesaid exhibited their bill in equity, alleging notice by the appellees of their claim before they purchased, and alleging an election to take the 1000 acres to include what is now called Morgan's station, part of the land purchased by Morgan. The appellees deny notice of the appellants' claim to any part of the land purchased by Morgan, but contend the appellants have elected to take their land on the lower end of the 5000 acre tract, thereby precluding any right to the land purchased by them. M holding a bond for 1000 acres, to be taken at his election out of 5000 acres, and having his election put the bond into the hands of C to receive a conveyance--this did not authorize C to make a new election. One who purchases with notice of an equity takes subject to that equity. A purchaser pendente lite is a purchaser with notice. The Court below on a final hearing made a decree dismissing the appellants' bill; from which decree they have appealed to this Court. It is contended for the appellees that C. Owings, with whom Samuel Mummy the executor left Myers' obligation for the purpose of obtaining a conveyance to the 1000 acres of land, some time in the year 1786, after the obligation was executed, elected to take the 1000 acres on the lower end of the tract of 5000 acres, which was accordingly laid off to him; and hence it is urged the appellants' claim should be confined to that end of the tract, thereby avoiding any interference with the land purchased by Morgan. It is true, had Owings been authorized to elect the part of the tract to be conveyed by Myers, and actually have made his election, the appellees would be bound by it, and prevented from obtaining any land not included in the choice made by their agent; but unless such an agency has been proven in this cause, it is unnecessary to examine into the proof as to the exercise of that authority: for it is clear the appellants' right cannot be affected by the unauthorized act of Owings. There is no evidence in the cause proving such an authority. The deposition of M'Intire, upon which great reliance was made in argument to prove an election by Owings, states nothing as to Owings' right to elect. It is true Owings proves that the obligation was left with him by Samuel Mummy, the executor, for the purpose of receiving a conveyance, but he also states that an election had been made by Samuel Mummy before the obligation was left with him, and the conveyance which he was authorized to receive was for the land selected by Mummy, and to include the land whereon Morgan's station now stands. It is conceived, therefore, that the evidence in relation to an election by Owings, cannot in any way affect the right of the parties in this cause, and consequently a decision on the evidence in relation to such an election is unnecessary. Nor is it conceived important to inquire whether the evidence is sufficiently satisfactory to prove an election by Samuel Mummy, the executor, to take the land in question in satisfaction of Myers' obligation: for if no other election has been made, the commencement of this suit is sufficient to authorize a decree for the land, unless Morgan and Swearingen are purchasers for a valuable consideration without notice. That they are not such purchasers, we are of opinion the evidence clearly demonstrates. Express notice to Morgan before his purchase, is proven by the deposition of C. Owings, and other circumstances in the cause rather fortify than impugn this deposition in relation to this point. Swearingen is not such a purchaser as should be protected against a prior equity; it does not appear he has obtained a conveyance, and beside his purchase was made since the commencement of this suit. *2 We are of opinion, therefore, the decree of the Circuit Court is erroneous and must be reversed with costs. The cause remanded to that Court for a decree to be entered according to the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Owings' Ex'r v. Myers 3 Bibb 278, 6 Ky. 278, 1814 WL 757 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
