(Cite as: 4 Litt. 1,  14 Ky. 1 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1217 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Grimes v. The Commonwealth, for the use of Clay. Oct. 7, 1823. *1 FROM THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 85 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(G) Surprise, Accident, Inadvertence, or Mistake 275k85 k. Absence or Disability of Party. Most Cited  Cases The fact that defendant was detained as a juror in another county is a sufficient apology for not being prepared for his defense to sustain a motion for a new trial. Guardian and Ward 196 k 174 196 Guardian and Ward 196VIII Liabilities on Guardianship Bonds 196k174 k. Property Covered. Most Cited Cases An action cannot be sustained on a guardian's bond, executed before the passage of the statute of 1813, authorizing the sale of real estate of infants for the proceeds of a sale made under that act. HARDIN and HANSON, for Grimes; CRITTENDEN, for Clay. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. On the 8th of April, 1811, Henry C. Clay, together with Charles Grimes his surety, executed to the Commonwealth a bond in the penalty of four thousand dollars conditioned to be void, "if the said Henry C. Clay, his heirs, executors and administrators, shall well and truly pay and deliver to George Clay, orphan of Samuel Clay, deceased, of whom he is appointed guardian, all such estate as there was or should thereafter appear to be due from him to the said orphan, when he should attain to lawful age to demand the same, or when thereto required by the said county of Bourbon for the time being; and should also faithfully execute his office therein, in such a manner as to save harmless, and indemnify the said justices, their heirs, executors and administrators, from all trouble or damage that might arise about the said estate." New trial directed. A man's having been summoned and detained on a jury in another county, during the period he had appropriated for preparing for his defence, is a sufficient apology for his not being prepared. Upon this bond suit was brought against Grimes, in the name of the Commonwealth, for the use and benefit of the ward, George Clay; and in the declaration a breach of the condition of the bond is assigned, in the failure of the guardian, Henry C. Clay, to deliver over to George Clay, or to pay him the amount of an obligation which was given to said Henry C. Clay by Benjamin Bedford and Anthony Thornton, for three hundred and seventy-seven dollars, seventy-seven cents and seven mills, and payable the 3d of October, 1816, being the distributive share of said George Clay, of the proceeds of a sale decreed by the Bourbon circuit court, of the real estate of his brother, Samuel Clay, deceased, from whom it descended to the said George and others, although to deliver the said obligation, or to pay the amount thereof, the said Henry C. Clay, by the said George, after he arrived at full age, was requested, and particularly on the ____ day of _____, in the circuit, &c. *2 An action can not be sustained, on a guardian's bond, executed before the passage of the act of 1813 authorizing the sale of real estate of infants, for the proceeds of a sale made under that act. To this suit Grimes failed to appear and make defense, and upon the execution of a writ of inquiry, five hundred and two dollars and forty-three cents damages were assessed against him, and judgment accordingly thereupon rendered in favor of the Commonwealth for the use and benefit of George Clay. The damages were assessed, and judgment rendered, on the first day of April, 1822, and afterwards, on the 9th day of the same month, being a subsequent day of the same term, Grimes appeared in court, exhibited his affidavit, and moved the court to set aside the assessment of damages and judgment, and award him a new trial; but his motion was overruled, and exceptions were taken to the opinion of the court. In his affidavit, the only defense which Grimes suggests a desire to make, and which he supposes would be availing, if permitted to make it, is contained in the transcript of a record which he exhibited to the court in connection with his affidavit. He states that he was sued in several cases of great interest to him, in the Fayette circuit court; that on the 25th of March, (it being the first day of the term of the Clarke circuit court, in which this cause was pending, (he went to Lexington), the Fayette circuit court being then, and having been for some time before, in session,) for the purpose of ascertaining on what day of the term the suits against him would probably be tried, intending, immediately upon receiving that information, to return to Winchester, and employ counsel and prepare for the defense of this case; that upon arriving at Lexington, he was summoned by the sheriff as a juror, for the trial of a cause, and the jury not agreeing, was not discharged until the 30th of that month, being Saturday; that upon being discharged, he learned from the state of the docket, that the suits in that court against him would certainly be called for trial the succeeding Monday, and from the magnitude of those cases, was bound to return on Monday to Lexington. He further states, that if it had not been for his unexpected detention on the jury, he would have been prepared with his defense of the case, before it was called for trial; that he resides thirteen miles from Lexington, the same distance from Winchester, and twenty-four miles from Paris, and that if he had not been detained at Lexington on the jury, he could, after returning to Winchester, have obtained the transcript of the record from Paris, before the trial, &c. From the transcript of the record which was made to accompany the affidavit, it appears that the obligation which the declaration alleges Henry C. Clay failed to deliver over or pay to George Clay, was the said George Clay's proportion, as one of the heirs of Samuel Clay, deceased, of the proceeds of a sale of the said decedent's real estate, decreed by the Bourbon circuit court, upon the petition of Henry C. Clay, guardian for the said George Clay, under the act of the legislature of this country, of February, 1813, regulating such proceedings; and that before the sale was decreed, in pursuance to an order of the Bourbon circuit court, the said Henry C. Clay executed bond and security to the said George Clay, conditioned as required by the provisions of that act. *3 If the facts contained in this transcript of the record be admitted sufficient to constitute a legal bar to the action which was brought against Grimes, we should have no hesitation in affirming that a new trial ought to have been awarded. That defense Grimes was prevented making, not from a neglectful inattention to the preparation of his cause for trial, but from the observance of a duty which he was unexpectedly summoned to discharge, and which he was necessarily bound to preform. The transcript of the record, it is true, might have been obtained, and counsel employed by Grimes, before he was summoned as a juror in Fayette; but it is equally true, that if he had not been there detained, he would have had sufficient time, after returning to Winchester, to employ counsel and procure the transcript, before his cause was called for trial; and it has never been thought necessary, to avoid the imputation of negligence, that a suitor should, immediately after becoming engaged in litigation, employ the first possible opportunity in preparing his cause for trial. But, admitting the apology of Grimes sufficient to excuse his absence from court at the trial, the question occurs, would the matter which he now desires an opportunity of employing in his defense, have been availing, if urged on the trial in the court below? And here it is proper to premise, that according to no existing law at the date of the bond upon which this action is founded, could any court of equity have pronounced such a decree as that alluded to in the transcript of the record, and under which the demand for which a recovery is sought in this action, was received by Henry C. Clay. That decree, as we have already observed, was for the sale of land which had descended upon George Clay, &c. and was pronounced by the Bourbon circuit court under the authority of an act of the legislature of this country, which passed in February, 1813, 2 Digest 665. It would, therefore, seem necessarily to follow, that as the demand for which a recovery is sought in this action, could not have been legally received by Henry C. Clay, when he was appointed guardian, in requiring a bond of him for the faithful discharge of his duties as guardian, the law cannot have intended demands of that sort should be comprehended. In permitting the estate of infants to be committed to the care of guardians, the law has cautiously guarded the interest of the wards, not only by requiring bond and security of the guardians, but, moreover, by imposing upon the justices of the court taking such bond, personal liability, in case of insufficient security being taken. But how is the sufficiency of the security to be judged of by the court taking the bond, otherwise than by fixing an estimate upon the estate committed to the guardian? And how, in making that estimate, is it possible for the court to anticipate future changes in the law, and consider the value of property over which, at the time, the guardian possessed no control, but which by subsequent enactments of the legislature might be placed in his hands? *4 But admitting the law not to require of a guardian a bond more comprehensive than we have supposed, it may possibly be thought by some, that the bond which was given by Clay and his surety, Grimes, is of more comprehensive import. That bond is conditioned to "pay and deliver to George Clay, of whom Henry C. Clay was appointed guardian, all such estate as there was or should thereafter appear due from him, the said Henry C. Clay, to the said George Clay;" and it may be said, that although, when the bond was given, a demand, such as that for which this suit is brought, could not have been received by Henry C. Clay, as guardian for George Clay; yet, under the authority of an act of the legislature of this country, since enacted, he, as guardian has in fact received it; and it may be urged, that under that receipt Henry C. Clay became indebted to George Clay the amount thereof, and being so indebted, is bound, according to the express condition of his bond, to pay the same to the said George Clay. If, however, we are correct as to the nature and extent of the obligation which the law required to be taken of Henry C. Clay, as guardian, such a latitudinous construction of those expressions contained in the condition of the bond, cannot be permitted to prevail. The requisitions of the law regulating the execution of such bonds, will be more literally fulfilled, and no violence done to what was most probably intended by the parties, by restricting the import of those expressions in the bond, to such estate of the infant, George Clay, as might, according to the law in force at the date of the bond, be rightfully received by the said Henry C. Clay in his general capacity of guardian, and which might at any time be due from him in that character. And such seems to have been the construction which the legislature of 1813 supposed would be given to the bonds of guardians previously executed; for although, by an act of that date, the legislature have authorized the circuit courts, on the petition of guardians, to decree the sale of the real estate of their wards, it appears not to have been contemplated by the makers of the law, that the proceeds of such a sale should be received by the guardian upon his general liability for the estate of his ward; but, to the contrary, the act contains an express prohibition against the making any such decree, "unless the guardian or guardians of the infant or infants shall have previously entered into, and acknowledged before, and deposited for safe-keeping with the clerk of the court, a bond or bonds to such infant or infants, with good and sufficient security, to be approved of by the court, and in such penalty as the court shall direct, conditioned to discharge faithfully, all the duties imposed on him or them by the act, or by any order or decree of the court in pursuance thereof," &c. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. *5 NOTE.--The responsibility of sureties, is now, more than ever heretofore, an interesting question in this country, and will, I presume, fully justify me in embracing this opportunity of presenting the leading cases, both in England and America, on the subject. There is a distinction between the cases where a man is, and must necessarily be known to be a security, and security only, and the cases in which he may be either security only, or a principal obligor. Securities for executors, administrators and guardians; securities in injunction, replevin and forthcoming bonds; securities for all public officers, and, in general, securities for the performance of all kinds of duty or service, public or private, are of the former character. Of the latter, are sureties in bonds for the payment of money or property, given in the ordinary intercourse of private life. In these cases, the obligee generally does not know, and has no means of certainly knowing whether the persor who first signs the bond receives the whole consideration to his own use, or whether he shares it with the others, or whether he who receives the whole does not give the others a mortgage on that or other property?? so as to completely indemnify them; consequently, injustice will rarely be done, in considering all the obligors as principals, in relation to the creditor. As to that class of securities who can be known as sureties merely, the rule of law is, that "the contract shall be construed strictly, and in their favor, and shall not be extended by implication." It appears to me, that many of the cases will warrant this addition to the rule, that general expressions in the contract shall be restrained in their application, to the state of things which was probably contemplated by the sureties at the time they entered into the engagement; though, perhaps, this will be considered as implied in that part of the rule which requires them to be construed in favor of the sureties. The cases which appear to me, not only to support the preceding case, but the above doctrines to their full extent, are the following: Lord Arlingt??n vs. Merrick, 2 Saunders, 411; Horton vs. Day, ibid, in notis; Wright vs. Russell, 3 Wils., 530, 2 Black Re., 934; Ship vs. Hay, 3 Atk., 91; Barker vs. Parker, 1 Term Rep., 287; Barkley vs. Lewis, ibid, in notis; Stratton vs. Rastall, 2 Term Rep., 336; Ludlow vs. Simond, 2 Caine's N. Y. Cases in Error, 29, 57; People of New York vs. Jansen, 7 John., 332; Walsh vs. Bailie, 10 John., 182; Union Bank vs. Clossey, 10 John., 271;  United States vs. Giles and his securities, 9 Cranch, 213. Ky.App. 1823. Grimes v. Commonwealth 4 Litt. 1, 14 Ky. 1, 1823 WL 1217 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
