(Cite as: 5 Litt. 166,  15 Ky. 166 (Ky.),  1824 WL 2288 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gatliff v. The Commonwealth. May 25, 1824. *1 FROM THE WHITLEY COUNTY COURT. CRITTENDEN and CAPERTON for plaintiff; SHARP for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. In a proceeding had under an act of assembly regulating that subject, Zachariah Davenport was adjudged by the county court of Whitley, a vagrant, and ordered to be hired out by the sheriff for seven months. The law concerning vagrants, does not authorize the sheriff to take a bond from the hirer for the payment of the hire. The sheriff accordingly exposed Davenport publicly for hire, and Gatliff became the highest bidder, at the price of forty-two dollars and twenty cents; but instead of requiring the money for the hire to be paid down, the sheriff received from Gatliff a bond with security, taken to the commonwealth, in the penalty of eighty-four dollars and forty cents, conditioned to pay the forty-two dollars and twenty cents within seven months. A proceeding thereon by scire facias, is not warranted, because a debt due by record is not thereby created. This bond was returned by the sheriff to the county court of Whitley, and in pursuance to an order of that court, made after the seven months had elapsed, a scire facias issued thereon against Gatliff; and at a subsequent term, judgment was rendered by the county court in favor of the commonwealth for forty-two dollars and twenty cents. The judgment, we think, cannot be sustained. The bond is evidently not of a character to authorize a proceeding against Gatliff by scire facias. Neither the law under which Davenport was adjudged a vagrant, nor the order of the county court directing him to be hired, gave to the sheriff any authority to accept such a bond for the hire. The bond cannot, therefore, with any propriety be said to have created a debt of record, and, of course, does not warrant the proceedings by scire facias. The judgment must, consequently, be reversed, the couse remanded to the court below, and the scire facias dismissed. Ky.App. 1824. Gatliff v. Commonwealth 5 Litt. 166, 15 Ky. 166, 1824 WL 2288 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
