(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 280,  22 Ky. 280 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1677 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Grant, &. v. Combs. Dec. 4, 1827. *1 Vendor and Vendee. Mistakes. Injunctions. Compensation. Rescission of Contracts. APPEAL EROM THE PENDLETON CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 176 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(D) Payment of Purchase Money 400k173 Abatement or Deductions 400k176 k. Deficiency in Quantity of Land. Most Cited  Cases Where, in a sale of land by the acre, there is a mistake as to the boundaries of the land sold, by which a large number of acres outside of the grant is sold, it is no just cause for relief for more than the value per acre fixed by the contracting parties on the part not contained in the grant, and the fact that the vendee has sold the land to others is no obstacle to such decree. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This is an appeal from a decree of the court below, dismissing a bill exhibited in chancery by the appellants, and dissolving their injunction, obtained against judgments recovered by the appellees with damages and cost. The judgments at law were recovered upon notes executed by the appellants, under a contract made by the appellant, Grant, through his agent, William Sebree, with the appellee, for the purchase of a tract of land, and the object of the bill, is to be relieved from the contract upon the grounds. Grounds of complaint stated in the bill. 1st. Of fraud committed by the appellee, Combs, in making the contract, and-- 2nd. The mistake of Sebree, the agent of Grant, in purchasing the land, which at the time belonged to Grant, but which was believed to be, but which was not, in the boundary of James Spilman's patent for 842 acres. The fraud charged in the bill is denied by Combs, in his answer, and the evidence in the cause supports the denial. Combs appears to have acted in making the contract, as the attorney in fact of Barbee and Warren, to whom the title of Spilman, under the patent for the 842 acres, has been conveyed, and there is nothing in the cause, calculated in the slightest degree, to cast upon Combs the imputation of unfair dealing. He was, in point of fact, authorized by Barbee and Warren, to sell their title to the land which had been patented to Spilman; and in contracting with Sebree, who acted for Grant, it is perfectly clear, that he did nothing more than sell lands which he honestly believed to be contained in the boundary of Spilman's patent. There is, therefore, no pretext for relieving Grant from the contract, on the ground of fraud. Found, on the evidence, there was no fraud in the contract. But it is otherwise, as respects the second ground relied on for relief. Sebree, as well as Combs, thought he was purchasing the land contained in the patent boundary of Spilman only, and though both of them acted fairly in the matter, it is evident from the exhibits and proof in the cause, that each was mistaken as to the actual boundary of that patent, and that Combs sold, and Sebree purchased, a considerable quantity of land not within Spilman's ??atent. The patent was believed by the parties, ??o contain a considerable surplus. By a survey executed before the contract was entered into, the ??atent boundary was made to contain twenty-two hundred and forty-five acres, and supposing that survey to be correctly made, and the number of acres correctly reported, the contract was concluded by which Combs was to convey the whole of the land so surveyed by special warranty deed to Grant, and Grant by his agent, Sebree and others, as his sureties, were to execute notes payable at the respective times agreed on by the parties, for the price which was twelve and one-half cents per acre, for all the land contained in the survey, except three hundred and ninety-four and three-fourths acres and for that quantity, two dollars per acre. The notes were accordingly executed by the one party, and the deed of conveyance by the other. Instead, however, of 2,245 acres, as supposed by the contracting parties, to be contained in the patent boundary of Spilman, it turns out from the proof in the cause, that but one thousand two hundred and thirteen acres of the land sold by Combs, are contained in Spilman's patent. For the land not contained in that patent, though sold by Combs, he most clearly has no just right to be paid, nor can Grant, upon any principles of equity, be compelled to make payment therefor. The mistake of the parties with respect to the true boundary of Spilman's patent, does away any claim, which, in moral justice, Combs can set up for the price of the land not contained in that patent, and relieves Grant from any equitable obligation to make payment therefor. But beyond the price of the land not contained in the patent, the mistake of the parties forms no ground for relief to Grant. *2 Mistake of the parties, in a sale by the acre, of the boundaries of the patent vendor sold under, by which he sold and conveyed 1000 acres outside of the grant, is ground for relief against payment of so much of the purchase money. The purchase was by the acre, and from the whole complexion of the transaction, it is not probable that if the true boundary had been known to the parties, it would have produced any other effect than to reduce the sum for which the notes were given to Combs, the amount agreed to be given fo?? the land, not included in Spilman's patent. Gran?? owned the land covered by Spilman's patent, and was desirous to extinguish his claim. His objec?? was to purchase whatever land that patent included, and having, through his agent, purchased at ?? fixed price per acre, what was supposed to be contained in the patent, though his agent was mistaken as to part of the land not being within the patent, he can have no just cause to be relieved for more than the value per acre fixed by the contracting parties, on the part not contained in the patent. That value, we understand from the proof in the cause, to be twelve and one-half cents per acre, amounting in the whole, to one hundred and twenty-nine dollars. For that sum, the court below, instead of dismissing Grant's bill should have decreed in his favor. In such case, the land not obtained not being material to the purchaser, the vendee can not have a rescission. But as the price agreed to be paid for the land, was to be paid by instalments, the one hundred and twenty-nine dollars, should be divided into as many instalments as that of the entire price agreed to be paid for the land, and an equal part thereof, credited upon each note given for the land, at the time it became payable. Deduction for want of title to part of the land, directed to be taken equally off all the installments. The circumstance of Grant having, since the conveyance was made by Combs, conveyed the land to others, forms no obstacle to such a decree. The land out of Spilman's patent, belonged to Grant before the contract was made by his agent, Sebree, and not to Warren and Barbee, from whom Combs acted in making the sale. Neither Combs nor those for whom he acted in making the sale, can, therefore, have any right to be restored to the land, as is usually done in decreeing a cancelment of a contract. Nor is it discerned how any damages can hereafter result, either to Combs, or those for whom he acted by the covenant or warranty, contained in the deed executed by him. The warranty is a special one, against the claim of Warren and Barbee, and others claiming under them only, and of course, neither Warren and Barbee, or Combs, can be in any danger of loss, should the land be hereafter recovered from Grant or his alienees, by a paramount claim. Sale by one who purchased an adversary claim of a part of the land, not embraced by his vendor's claim, but included in his purchase by mistake, is no objection to relief against the payment of so much of the purchase money.--It is not proper to order a surrender of the possession in such case. *3 The decree must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and such decree there entered, as may not be inconsistent with the principles of this opinion. Triplett, for appellants; Combs, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Grant v. Combs 6 T.B.Mon. 280, 22 Ky. 280, 1827 WL 1677 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
