(Cite as: 4 Bibb 305,  7 Ky. 305 (Ky.),  1816 WL 734 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Montgomery v. Caldwell. Apr. 6, 1816. *1 In detinue a replication to a plea of the statute of limitations, alleging that within five years after the accrual of the cause of action, a suit was brought and nonsuit suffered after issue joined, and jury sworn, and that within one year thereafter the pending action was brought, is not sufficient. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 80 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(D) Death and Administration 241k80 k. Death of Person Entitled to Sue. Most Cited  Cases Where an action abates because of the death of plaintiff, a new action may be commenced within a year, during which period limitation is suspended. Limitation of Actions 241 k 192(4) 241 Limitation of Actions 241V Pleading, Evidence, Trial, and Review 241k186 Pleading in Avoidance of Defense 241k192 Matters Avoiding Bar of Statute 241k192(4) k. Commencement of Action. Most Cited  Cases In an action of detinue, a replication to a plea of the statute of limitations, alleging that within five years after the accruing of the cause of action a suit was brought, and a nonsuit suffered after issue was joined and the juries sworn, and that within one year thereafter the pending action was brought, is not sufficient. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was an action of detinue brought in the Court below by the appellee to recover a negro woman slave, and the appellant having pleaded the statute of limitations, the appellee in substance replied, that within five years from the accrual of the cause of action, he commenced in a Court of competent jurisdiction against the appellant, a similar action for the purpose of recovering the same negro, and after the jury in that action was sworn to try the issue joined, being unable to maintain his right, he suffered a nonsuit, and that recently thereafter, within the space of one year, he commenced the present action, etc. And whether the Court below erred in overruling a demurrer to the replication filed by the appellant, is the only question necessary to be determined by this Court. The solution of this question depends exclusively upon the construction which may be given to the proviso contained in the sixth section of the act of 1796, concerning limitations of actions. By that proviso (see  1 Littell 383), "if in any of the actions or suits previously mentioned in the act, judgment be given for the plaintiff, and the same be reversed afterward by error, or a verdict passed for the plaintiff, and upon matter lodged in arrest of judgment the judgment be given against the plaintiff, that he take nothing by his plaint, writ, or bill, that in all such cases the party, plaintiff, his heirs, executors or administrators, as the case shall require, may commence a new action or suit, from time to time, within one year after such judgment reversed, or such judgment given against the plaintiff, and not after." *2 It is not pretended the case in question comes strictly within the letter, but such a latitude of construction is contended for as will bring it within the equity of the proviso. Cases may possibly occur where it might perhaps be proper by a liberality of construction to give the proviso an operation beyond its literal import. As for example, where the plaintiff's action in consequence of his death abates, then as by an inevitable necessity, and not in consequence of any default in him, his action is defeated; it might be proper, although the time of limitation may have elapsed, to permit the executor or administrator, under the equity of the statute, to maintain wrthin the time mentioned in the proviso a new suit. But even in that case, there appears not to have been a perfect accordance among the English judges when speaking upon the subject, for although by some of them the doctrine has been thus recognized, when giving an exposition to a proviso in their statute similar to that of ours; yet Baron Comyns, in the 1st vol. of his Digest (page 222) says, "the plaintiff cannot reply another original sued by his testator who died, and so it abated, for that is not within the provision of the statute;" and in support of his position refers to "Sut. 264." Whatever disposition might exist with the Court to extend the operation of the proviso to the case just put, notwithstanding the opposing authority referred to from Comyns, they are unable to perceive any principle which can authorize the case in question to be brought within it; for as the appellee voluntarily abandoned his first suit, he ought not to be permitted to avail himself of his own laches as a means whereby the plain operation of a statute, made for the repose of defendants, should be defeated of its purpose. While the case first brought by the appellee was depending, he should have exercised proper vigilance in its prosecution; and his failure to do so, can upon no principle afford grounds upon which the equity of the statute can operate. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below, and proceedings there had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1816. Montgomery v. Caldwell 4 Bibb 305, 7 Ky. 305, 1816 WL 734 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
