(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 405,  10 Ky. 405 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1113 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Goodman Oldham v. John Farris et al. May 30, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE KNOX CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Specific Performance 358 k 13 358 Specific Performance 358I Nature and Grounds of Remedy in General 358k11 Defenses or Objections to Relief 358k13 k. Performance Impossible. Most Cited Cases Where a party has given his obligation for a conveyance of land, he cannot set up an executory contract, in which he was the obligor, and which he has never executed, as a ground of refusal to make the conveyance. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court, dismissing Oldham's bill with costs. The object of the bill was, to obtain the specific execution of a contract made by M'Farlin for the purchase of a tract of land from John Faris, and, to convey which, Faris gave his obligation to M'Farlin the 4th of March, 1815; and which was afterwards, on the 28th of May, 1817, assigned by M'Farlin to Oldham. The bill, after setting forth the purchase made by M'Farlin, the execution of the bond for a title by Faris, and the assignment by M'Farlin, alleges the payment of the purchase money by M'Farlin, and the payment of a full and valuable consideration by Oldham for the assignment; and after making Faris and M'Farlin defendants, asks for a decree compelling Faris to convey the land to Oldham. Faris answers, admitting the sale of the land by him to M'Farlin, and the receipt of the sale money; but alleges, that, after he gave the bond for a title, and before M'Farlin assigned it to Oldham, an agreement was made between him and M'Farlin, whereby the original contract was cancelled, and for a valuable consideration then paid to M'Farlin, the bond was to be delivered up, and to be of no further validity. He also charges, that by some unfair means Oldham has obtained the assignment; and he insists that he ought not to be compelled to convey the land, &c. M'Farlin also states, that Faris repurchased the land from him before he made the assignment to Oldham; and alleges that Oldham caused an execution to be levied on the bond, and through his improper management procured the assignment. He admits that Faris had paid the amount agreed to be given for the land on his repurchase, &c. From the imperfect preparation of the cause, we have had some difficulty in distinctly understanding the true state of the facts attempted to be established by each party. We infer from the evidence enough, however, to convince us that the decree of the court below can not be sustained. Faris admits the original purchase by M'Farlin to be of a character that ought to have been specifically complied with, if it were not for other circumstances which have since intervened, and which he contends excuses him from a fulfillment of his obligation to M'Farlan. We have, however, been unable to perceive the circumstance which ought to have that effect. The agreement relied on by Faris as an agreement of cancelment, is certainly not entitled to that character. For, instead of an agreement to cancel the contract of sale by Faris to M'Farlan, it appears to have been an agreement made in February, 1817, for Farris to have the land, if he should pay for M'Farlin one hundred dollars, and M'Farlin should not refund the money against the first of July thereafter; but there is no evidence in the cause, conducing to shew, that Faris ever paid, prior to the first of July, any thing for M'Farlin; and although he became M'Farlin's security in a replevin bond for thirty odd dollars before that time, and afterwards paid the money, it is pretty evident, from the evidence, that he neither became security or paid the money on the faith of the contract which he made with M'Farlin to have the land. Such a contract, in its nature executory, and never complied with, can afford no excuse to Faris for not complying with his obligation to convey to M'Farlin. *2 Unless, therefore, Oldham has been guilty of such misconduct in procuring the assignment as will forbid relief, Faris ought to be compelled to make him a title. And here it should be remarked, that the bill of Oldham is not brought for the purpose of obtaining the specific execution of an executory agreement to assign Faris' obligation, but he exhibits his bill to obtain the specific execution of Faris' covenant to convey, and relies upon the assignment of M'Farlin as having in fact and law transferred to him this right to a conveyance. It is not, therefore, any circumstance, which might be sufficient to prevent the chancellor from decreeing the specific execution of a contract to assignor, that can be successfully opposed to Oldham's right to relief against Faris; but the circumstances must be of a character which would authorize the court, at the instance of M'Farlin, to annul the assignment. For, as by the assignment the legal right to demand a title became vested in Oldham, so long as the assignment remains in full force, M'Farlin could not obtain the specific execution of Faris' covenant to convey; and if any circumstance, which would not be sufficient to cancel the assignment, might be successfully opposed to Oldham's demand for relief, the consequence might be, that neither Oldham nor M'Farlin could obtain an enforcement of Farlin's obligation. And with respect to the assignment of M'Farlin to Oldham, we are not of opinion that the circumstances under which it was obtained, could warrant the court in setting it aside on the score of fraud. The only circumstance militating in the slightest degree against the fairness of that assignment, is the fact of Oldham's having caused the bond on Faris to be taken by an execution in favor of himself, when, in point of law, it was not properly the subject of execution; but the bond was not sold under the execution, but was sold by M'Farlin to Oldham, and regularly assigned by him; and there is no evidence in the cause conducing to shew, that the price given by Oldham was not adequate to the full value of the land, or that Oldham had in view any fraudulent purpose in causing the bond to be taken in execution. Hence, we infer, Oldham has shewn a sufficient right to a conveyance from Faris, and that the court ought to have made its decree accordingly. The decree must consequently be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered in conformity to the principles of this opinion. Bibb for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1821. Oldham v. Faris 3 A.K.Marsh. 405, 10 Ky. 405, 1821 WL 1113 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
