(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 210,  19 Ky. 210 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1272 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hickman, &c. v. Skinner. May 25, 1826. *1 Counties. Revenue. Register's Sales and Deeds. Presumptions. Officers. Evidence. Recitals. ERROR TO THE ESTILL CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Taxation 371 k 3102 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(N) Tax Titles 371III(N)2 Tax Deeds 371k3098 Recitals 371k3102 k. Proceedings Preliminary to Sale. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 371k760) It is not necessary that the register's deed of lands sold for taxes should recite that it had been advertised according to the statute. Taxation 371 k 3137 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(N) Tax Titles 371III(N)2 Tax Deeds 371k3133 Effect as to  Title 371k3137 k. Presumptions and Rebuttal Thereof. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 371k789(4)) Where a tax deed is executed by the register of the land office, the presumption is that he did his duty. Evidence 157 k 83(1) 157 Evidence 157II Presumptions 157k83 Official Proceedings and Acts 157k83(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases It is presumed that an officer does his duty, and that his proceedings are regular. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This writ of error is prosecuted to a judgment, recovered by Skinner, &c. in an action of ejectment, which was brought against them, to recover the possession of seven hundred and thirty-one acres of land in the county of Estill. Action. Parties. subject of controversy. Hickman, who is the lessor of the plaintiff in the court below, claimed the land under a sale made by the register of the land office for the tax due for the year 1815, and which accrued to the commonwealth whilst the land was owned by Matthew Clay, a nonresident; and on the trial of the general issue in that court, the deed of conveyance made by the register under the sale for taxes, was offered in evidence by Hickman, but, upon being objected to by the counsel of Skinner, &c. was rejected by the court. Deed of the Register of the Land Office offered in evidence and rejected. Whether or not the deed ought to have been allowed to go in evidence to the jury, is the only question made by the assignment of errors. Two objections were taken to the deed; the latter one alone, however, was sustained by the court; the first being, in the opinion of that court, not such as to authorize the rejection of the deed. The first objection rests upon an inaccuracy in the description of the land, as contained in the list for taxation with the auditor; it being described to lie in the county of Madison, upon Station camp, when in truth the land lies in the new county of Estill, (formerly Madison county), on Station camp. This inaccuracy in the description of the land was, however, in our opinion, correctly held by the court below, not to form a sufficient cause to exclude the deed from being used in evidence to the jury. Whether or not the land conveyed by the register be the same that was sold by him for the tax, is properly a question of fact for the decision of the jury, and was no doubt, correctly left by the court for their consideration, upon all the circumstances having a bearing upon the subject. *2 Register's advertisement of non-residents' land for taxation lying in a new county, describing it as lying in the old county, is sufficient. But we differ in opinion with that court as to the second objection taken to the deed of the register. In sustaining that objection, the court must have gone upon the principle, that, to be of any legal validity, the deed made by the register, under a sale for tax, should state explicitly that the sale was made in pursuance to notice previously published in strict conformity to the requisitions of law; and if in that the court were correct, the deed no doubt, was correctly rejected, for there is no suggestion in the deed as to the time of sale having ever been advertised. But we are not prepared to admit that there is any necessity for the deed to contain any mention of the sale having been advertised. It is not necessary for the Register's deed to recite that the land had been advertised according to the statute. We acknowledge that the register's deed can have passed no title, unless it was made in pursuance of a sale for taxes duly and regularly advertised; but if so advertised, the legal effect of the deed is the same, whether or not it contains any statement in relation to the advertisement. It is necessary to the effect of the deed of the Register, that it was executed in pursuance of a sale for taxes duly advertised. As an officer of the law, entrusted with authority to sell and convey, it is not to be presumed, that the register would have conveyed without having previously done whatever he was required by the duties of his office previously to do. From the fact of his having conveyed, therefore, we must presume, prima facie, that every thing was done by the register which was incumbent upon him to do, and were his deed to state that those things had been done, the legal effect of the statement would be no more. The original proprietor of the land would, nevertheless, be at liberty to disprove the truth of the statements, and thereby defeat the force of the deed. On the deed only, the presumption is, the Register has done his duty, and if the contrary be relied on, it must be shewn, which may be done notwithstanding recitals. The deed ought, therefore, to have been permitted to go in evidence to the jury. The judgment must consequently be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and furthur proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Turner, for plaintiff; Caperton, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Hickman v. Skinner 3 T.B.Mon. 210, 19 Ky. 210, 1826 WL 1272 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
