(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 149,  19 Ky. 149 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1255 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lampton v. Haggard. Apr. 10, 1826. *1 Currency. Money. Judicial Notice. Words. Constructions. Banks. Action. ERROR TO THE CLARKE CIRCUIT; GEO. SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 131 56 Bills and Notes 56II Construction and Operation 56k131 k. Mode and Form of Payment. Most Cited Cases A note payable in "Kentucky currency," made before the suspension of specie payments by Kentucky banks, is payable in specie. Evidence 157 k 5(2) 157 Evidence 157I Judicial Notice 157k5 Matters of Common Knowledge in General 157k5(2) k. Particular Facts. Most Cited Cases The character of the circulating medium, and popular language in reference to it is noticed by the court. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement. This writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment recovered by Haggard, in a proceeding, by petition and summons, upon a note for three hundred and fifty dollars "Kentucky currency," executed by Lampton. The only question to be decided is, whether or not the action by petition is maintained upon the note. If at the date of the note, anything else but gold or silver had become the only medium of universal circulation, we should have no difficulty in holding that the action by petition and summons could not be maintained; for although nothing but gold or silver can, consistently with the constitution of the United States, be made a legal tender in payment of debts, the language of parties employed in their contracts must be construed according to their popular acceptation, and in common acceptation currency of Kentucky never would be undersood to mean anything else but the common circulating medium in the state. If, therefore, gold and silver had ceased to be that circulating medium, at the date of the note, (and whether or not the court is bound judicially to know,) the action by petition, most indisputably could not be maintained. For as the expressions currency of Kentucky would then be understood to mean something else than gold or silver, the note could not be construed to be for the payment of money, for which and for which only, a petition and summons will lie. When gold and silver was not, but there was another medium of universal circulation--Kentucky currency--in popular language did not mean money. _____ And Petition and Summons could not be maintained on an obligaton so expressed. But we do not admit that at the date of the note gold and silver had ceased to be the circulating medium of the state. The note bears date of the 12th of July, 1817, and although the Bank of Kentucky was then in operation, it paid specie for its notes and continued to do so for some time thereafter. The notes of that Bank, therefore, might then at any time have been converted into money, and instead of forming the currency of the state, may be more properly said to have been the representative of gold and silver, which at that time was, in fact and in the common understanding of the community, the currency of Kentucky. Thus understanding the expressions "currency of Kentucky" the note must be admitted to be for the direct payment of money, and of course the action by petition and summons was correctly conceived. *2 In 1817, gold and silver was the currency, as the court judicially notice, and Kentucky currency did then mean money, and on a note for it petition and summons will lie. We have not forgotten that in the case of  Chambers versus George, 5 Litt. Rep., 335, it was held by this court that a petition and summons could not be maintained upon a note payable "in the currency of this state." But the note in that case was given long after 1817, and after the suspension of specie payment by the bank of Kentucky, and the non-payment of specie by other banks, subsequently established, had caused a paper circulating medium which in popular acceptation became emphatically the "currency of the state." It has been otherwise, since suspension of specie payments by the Bank of Kentucky and other corporations. So far, therefore, from being an authority against sustaining the petition in this case the principle decided in that case goes to support it. It was by interpreting the expressions "currency of the state" according to their popular acceptation that the note in that case was held not to be for the payment of money; and it is by adopting the same rule of interpretation we arrive at the conclusion that the note in this case is for the payment of money. Character of the circulating medium, and popular language in reference to it noticed by the court. We have not, it is true, given to the language employed in both notes, though very much alike, the same interpretation; but we have not done so because the interpretation in each case should conform to the popular acceptation of the language at the date of the note, and because we suppose there was a difference at the different dates of the notes in the popular acceptation of the expressions contained in the notes. In thus noticing the change which the language employed by the parties has underwent, we have done no more than what we were judicially bound to do. The expressions of contracting parties must be construed according to their popular acceptation, which judges must notice. The propriety of doing so results, as a necessary consequence, from the principle universally admitted, that the expressions of contracting parties must be construed according to their popular acceptation. That there may be, and are frequent changes in the popular acceptation of words no one can doubt; and how would it be possible for a court whose providence it is to expound writings and decide upon their import, to apply and give effect to the principle unless it takes notice, judicially, of any change which in popular acceptation the meaning of words undergoes. The court will also notice any changes that the popular meaning of words may undergo. The judgment must therefore be affirmed with cost. Ky.App. 1826. Lampton v. Haggard 3 T.B.Mon. 149, 19 Ky. 149, 1826 WL 1255 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
