(Cite as: 4 Bibb 444,  7 Ky. 444 (Ky.),  1816 WL 815 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rochester v. Trotters. Nov. 21, 1816. *1 To take judgment by default in an action of debt, without disposing of a plea filed, is erroneous--See  Milner v. Miller, 7 Ky. 341. Debt against W and R as a com pany, on a note given by W and Co.; plea by R that he was not at the date of the note or any time previous the partner of W, is sufficient to bar the action against him. West Headnotes Partnership 289 k 213(1) 289 Partnership 289IV Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 289IV(D) Actions by or Against Firms or Partners 289k211 Pleading 289k213 Allegations and Denials of  Partnership 289k213(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases In an action of debt against W. and R., as a company, on a note given by W. & Co., a plea by R. that he was not, at the date of the note or at any time previous, the partner of W., was held to be a bar to the action against him. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is a writ of error brought to reverse a judgment rendered in favor of the Trotters in a petition and summons prosecuted by them against Rochester and David Wood, as merchants and partners in trade, trading under the firm of David Wood & Co. The petition was filed upon the following writing, viz: "Lexington, January 14th, 1814--One hundred and twenty days after date we promise to pay to Samuel and George Trotter, or order, four hundred and fifty-four dollars eleven cents, without defalcation, for value received, negotiable and payable at the Lexington branch bank. Witness our hands. David Wood & Co." To the petition Rochester appeared and filed a demurrer, and it being joined by the Trotters, was overruled by the Court. Rochester then obtained leave of the Court and withdrew his demurrer and filed three several pleas in bar, and at a subsequent term, having withdrawn his third plea, the Trotters, without taking any notice of the other pleas, took judgment by default against Rochester, and after causing an inquiry of damages, obtained final judgment for the amount of the note, together with interest and costs. The first point made by the assignment of errors questions the propriety of maintaining a petition and summons upon the writing mentioned. Assuming Rochester to be one of the firm of Wood & Co. we should be of opinion the action was properly conceived. In that case the writing held by the Trotters would be upon him and Wood, trading as is described in the petition under the firm of Wood & Co.; and from analogy to other cases heretofore decided by this Court, a petition and summons would be a proper remedy to recover the debt from them. The assignment of errors in the second place questions the propriety of taking judgment without previously disposing of the first and second pleas. If either of these pleas furnish a good defense for Rochester, in that case, as they remain unanswered, it was clearly irregular to enter judgment against him. Without entering into a minute discussion of the second plea, it will be admitted not to contain those averments essential to a good plea. But with respect to the first plea, we are of opinion it is substantially sufficient. That plea expressly avers that Rochester was not at the date of the writing upon which the suit is founded, nor at any time previous thereto, the partner of David Wood. *2 Admitting this plea to be true, Rochester most clearly cannot be liable to the Trotters; for as the writing purports to be an obligation upon the partners trading under the firm of Wood & Co. unless Rochester was one of the company, he is not bound; and the plea, by denying he was a partner of Wood, either when the writing was given or before, substantially traverses a material fact, which, if not true, he cannot be accountable. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the Court below for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1816. Rochester v. Trotters 4 Bibb 444, 7 Ky. 444, 1816 WL 815 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
