(Cite as: 4 Litt. 129,  14 Ky. 129 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1234 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Baltzell v. Hackley, &c. Oct. 13, 1823. *1 FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. H. DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 369 150 Equity 150VIII Hearing, Submission of Issues to Jury, and Rehearing 150k369 k. Condition of Cause. Most Cited Cases Under 1 Litt. & S.Dig. p. 285, providing that, "if the issue be made up by bill, answer and replication, or the like, whereby depositions are to be taken, the cause shall stand for hearing at the next term after the issue is made up", a decree dismissing a bill at the next term after the subpoena was returned, and at the same term defendant's answer was filed, without consent of parties, is erroneous. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was a bill in chancery, with injunction against a judgment at law recovered by Hackley, exhibited in the court below by Batzell. A chancery cause can not be tried at the same term in which the issue is made up, it being the second term after the return of the subpoena executed, except by consent of parties, tacitly or expressly given. The bill was lodged with the clerk of the Franklin circuit court, on the 16th of March, 1822, and a subpoena issued thereon against the defendants, Hackley, &c. returnable to the March term. On the 19th of June, 1822, the joint answer of the defendants was lodged with the clerk; and at the July term, (being the first term after that to which the subpoena was made returnable), was noted on the order book as filed. At a subsequent day of the same July term, a motion was made to dissolve the injunction obtained by Baltzell, and the injunction was thereafter, at the same term, dissolved, together with damages and the costs of the motion. And on a subsequent day of the same term the following order and decree was made by the court, to-wit: "The court being now sufficiently advised of and concerning the premises herein, do order and decree that the complainant's bill be, and the same is hereby dismissed; and it is further ordered, that the defendants recover of the complainant their costs by them about their defense herein expended." To reverse that decree, Baltzel has prosecuted this writ of error. It is objected by the assignment of errors, that the bill was prematurely dismissed. From the preceding statement, it will be perceived that the decree dismissing the bill was pronounced by the court at the next term after the subpoena was returned, and at the same term that the defendants' answers were filed; and the objection is taken upon the supposition, that the cause could not, at that term, be finally heard and decided on. It would, no doubt, be competent for the court, by the consent of the parties, to hear and finally decide a suit in chancery, at the same term that an issue is made up; but unless such consent be either tacitly or expressly given, the cause can not, in strict propriety, be heard and finally determined until the next term. *2 The twentieth section of the act of the legislature of this country, concerning suits at law and in chancery, 1 Dig. Stat. 285, is explicit upon this subject. After requiring an issue to be made up in suits in chancery the first term next after the subpoena is returned executed, the section provides, "if the issue be made up by bill, answer and replication, or the like, whereby depositions are to be taken, the cause shall stand for hearing at the next term after the issue is made up." According to the clear and unambiguous import of this provision, the cause did not legally stand for hearing at the term it was finally decided on by the court; and there is nothing contained in the record from which the consent of the complainant that the cause might then be decided, can be inferred. The record shows that the motion to dissolve the injunction, came on to be heard upon the argument of counsel, as it was regular for it to be; but there is no suggestion in the record, of the cause having ever come on to be finally heard on argument, and there is nothing to show in what way the court came possessed of the cause, when the final decree was pronounced. It is probable, that after dissolving the injunction, the court, without further suggestion from the parties, being satisfied the complainants were not entitled to relief, pronounced the final decree dismissing their bill. In doing so, however, the court acted prematurely; and for that cause, the decree dismissing the bill must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and further proceedings be had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Baltzell v. Hackley 4 Litt. 129, 14 Ky. 129, 1823 WL 1234 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
