(Cite as: 2 Bibb 582,  5 Ky. 582 (Ky.),  1812 WL 632 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mansfield v. Duvall. Spring Term, 1812. *1 Upon an inquisition of forcible entry and detainer, proof of an equitable title in the prosecutor, is irrelevant and improper. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 29(3) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k29 Evidence 179k29(3) k. Admissibility of Evidence of Title. Most Cited  Cases Upon an inquisition of forcible entry and detainer, proof of an equitable title in the prosecutor is irrelevant and improper. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. Judge WALLACE absent. MANSFIELD filed a traverse to an inquest taken in favor of Duvall against him, before William Dudley, a justice of the peace for Fayette county, under an act regulating the mode of proceedings in cases of forcible entries and detainers. The traverse was regularly placed on the docket of the Fayette Circuit Court, and issue joined thereon by Duvall. On the trial of the issue Duvall offered in evidence a writing signed by Elijah Craig, proving that Craig had sold to Duvall a certain parcel of land described in the writing, upon the terms therein stipulated and which was to be deeded by John Craig's trustees to Duvall. To the admission of the writing as evidence Mansfield objected, because it was irrelevant and improper in the cause; the objection was overruled, and the writing used in evidence; a verdict and judgment was had against Mansfield, to reverse which he has prosecuted this appeal. The writing vested no legal right in Duvall, it at most could give only an equity to have title. Had Mansfield committed a forcible entry without right of possession on the possession in fact of Duvall, proof of such possession would have been sufficient to authorize judgment of restitution in favor of Duvall. In such a case, no proof of an equity in Duvall would have been necessary, the production and admission of the writing would have been useless and nugatory. But had Mansfield the right of entry and possession, it was evidently erroneous to admit any evidence of an equity in Duvall to defeat that right. The admission of the writing as evidence was then most certainly improper. It could establish no legal right in Duvall, and it should not have been admitted to prove an equity, the establishment of which could not give a right to Duvall or divest Mansfield of any right which he might have. The judgment of the Fayette Circuit Court is therefore erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, etc., the cause remanded to that Court for a new trial to be had on the issue joined. Ky.App. 1812. Mansfield v. Duvall 2 Bibb 582, 5 Ky. 582, 1812 WL 632 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
