(Cite as: 3 Bibb 283,  6 Ky. 283 (Ky.),  1814 WL 759 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Smith's executor v. Mosby's executor, etc., Shelby, etc. v. Smith's executor; on cross appeals. Apr. 12, 1814. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 72(2) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k72 Persons Required or Entitled to Continue or Revive  Action 2k72(2) k. Persons by Whom Action Continued or Revived  in General. Most Cited Cases A. brought a suit in equity, but died while it was pending.  Held that, as the prayer of the bill was either to be relieved from a judgment at law or to obtain the conveyance of land, the suit ought to have been revived as well in the name of the heirs as of the executor of A. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 ON the 10th of October, 1781, William M'Bride gave his obligation to John Bunton for the conveyance of 200 acres of land, the tract whereon Bunton then lived, and being a part of a tract of 400 acres then held by M'Bride. By various intermediate assignments this bond came to David Mosby, who in 1798 obtained a deed of conveyance from the heirs of M'Bride. Mosby died, and by his will authorized Edward Worthington, his executor, to sell the land. The executor accordingly sold the land as a tract containing 200 acres, to Horace Smith. After this, Smith, discovering the boundary of the land as then shown contained but about 162 acres, and having paid a considerable part of the consideration, exhibited his bill in chancery and obtained an injunction against the residue. He charges in his bill that the boundary was not originally made as now shown, but if so made he claims his full quantity, to be made up out of the land claimed by Isaac Shelby, etc., who holds the residue of the 400 acre tract of M'Bride; and for that purpose and to establish the boundary, he makes Shelby, Roberts, and others defendants to his bill. Who ought to be parties to a bill in equity for specific execution--Vide vol. 1, Crittenden's adm'r v. Craig, 474--Barry v. Rogers?? 314--Cox's heirs v. Strode, 275-vol. 2, Johnson v. Rankin, 184-Craig v. Machir, 15--Thomas v. Bush, 506. During the pendency of this suit Smith died, and a revival was had in the name of Speed, his executor. On a final hearing the Court below decreed the boundary of Smith's purchase to be established including part of the land held by Shelby; decreed Mosby's executor to convey to Smith's heirs the boundary so established; dismissed the bill as to Smith's executor, and dissolved the injunction with ten per cent. damages. The state of preparation in which this cause was when finally heard in the Court below, renders it unnecessary for us to decide as to the rights of the parties to the land in contest. It is clear the suit should have been revived in the name of the heirs of Smith, for the purpose of investigating the right claimed by Smith to land held by Shelby and others. The executor, it is true, is a proper party to investigate the right to the relief sought against the judgment at law obtained by the executor of Mosby; but as the suit was brought by Smith with a double aspect, either to be relieved against the judgment at law, or to obtain his full quantity of land, to make the decree final as to all the matter in contest, the suit should have been revived as well in the name of the heirs as of the executor. We are of opinion, therefore, the Court below erred in proceeding to make a decree in this cause before all the proper parties were before them. The decree for that cause must be reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings. But as it was urged in argument that other defendants should have been made by the complainant in that Court, it may not be improper to remark, that so far as the complainant there relies for relief on a prior equity only, to authorize a specific execution of the agreement from which that equity is derived, all those through whom his right is deduced should be brought before the Court. But owing to the very imperfect state of the case as presented in the record here, it would be improper in us to designate specifically all those who should be brought before the Court. *2 We are also of opinion the appellants, Shelby, etc., recover their costs in this Court against Smith's executor, and that Smith's executor and Mosby's executor pay their own costs respectively. Ky.App. 1814. Smith's Ex'r v. Mosby's Ex'r 3 Bibb 283, 6 Ky. 283, 1814 WL 759 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
