(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 559,  22 Ky. 559 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1181 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thompson v. Bell. Apr. 8, 1828. *1 Writ. Declaration. Commencement of Suit. Arrest of Judgment. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; S. W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Action 13 k 64 13 Action 13IV Commencement, Prosecution, and Termination 13k64 k. Proceedings Constituting Commencement. Most Cited Cases The suing out of the writ is the commencement of the action. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Thompson brought an action of detinue against Bell, for a certain sorrel horse. Declaration in detinue for a horse. The declaration charges the horse to have been in the possession of Thompson, as of his own proper goods, &c., on ____day of____1824, and that on that day he was casually lost by him out of his possession; that afterwards, to-wit: on 24th day of November, 1824, the horse came to the possession of Bell by finding, and that Bell, although he well knew the horse to be the property of Thompson, hath not, though often requested so to do, delivered the said horse to Thompson, &c. On the declaration there is an endorsement in these words: "Filed 12th February, 1824," to which is subjoined the name of the clerk. The writ issued the 16th of December 1824, and was made returnable to the March term thereafter. At the June term, 1825, Bell appeared and pleaded the general issue. At a subsequent term the issue was tried and a verdict found for Thompson, and judgment thereon rendered in his favour. After this motion was made to arrest the judgment, and it was accordingly arrested. The motion was made upon two grounds: 1st. That Thompson declared and filed his declaration before the cause of action accrued. 2nd. That the declaration is insufficient. Plea, non detinet. Verdict for plaintiff, but judgment arrested. The latter ground is clearly untenable. The declaration is in the usual form, and contains every substantial allegation necessary to shew a good cause of action. The first ground rests for its support upon the endorsement on the declaration. The declaration alleges the cause of action to have accrued the 24th of November, 1824, and according to the endorsement the declaration was filed in February preceding, so that if the endorsement be considered conclusive as to the time the declaration was filed, the time of filing must have preceded the accrual of the cause of action. There are however other circumstances contained in the record, which renders it quite probable that in making the endorsement, a mistake was committed by the clerk, as to the time the declaration was, in truth, filed, and that instead of February, 1824, it was filed February, 1825. Whether or not such mistake was committed, we have not thought worth examining. For we understand the suing out of the writ and not the filing the declaration, to be the commencement of the action, and if filed before the cause of action accrued, yet as the declaration contains sufficient matter to sustain the action after it accrued, it is not perceived how the time of filing it can vitiate the verdict, had upon trial of the general issue, pleaded after the cause of action actually accrued. *2 Issuing the writ, not the filing the declaration, is the commencement of the action. The plea put in issue the cause of action, which, according to the statements in the declaration, must have accrued before the writ issued, and after a trial of that issue, any objection to the time of filing the declaration is nothing more than an objection as to form and not substance, and should not be regarded. If a declaration be filed in February, stating a cause of action in November following, and the writ be issued in December of the same year, and verdict be afterwards rendered for plaintiff on the general issue, all is well. The judgment in arresting the judgment first rendered upon the verdict must, therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and the judgment, in conformity with the verdict, permitted to stand. The defendant in error must pay costs in this case. Triplett, for plaintiff; French for defendant. Ky.App. 1828. Thompson v. Bell 6 T.B.Mon. 559, 22 Ky. 559, 1828 WL 1181 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
