(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 484,  20 Ky. 484 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1465 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thompson and his surety v. Commonwealth for Leroy Jackson. Apr. 26, 1827. *1 Bastardy. Motions. Bonds Statutory. ERROR TO THE HENRY COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76H k 70 76H Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76HV Paternity Proceedings 76Hk70 k. Bonds for Support. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 53k86  Bastards) A bastardy bond must run to the commonwealth. Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76H k 70 76H Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76HV Paternity Proceedings 76Hk70 k. Bonds for Support. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 53k86  Bastards) A bond to support a bastard child, though not taken conformably to statute, may be good at common law. Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76H k 70 76H Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76HV Paternity Proceedings 76Hk70 k. Bonds for Support. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 53k88  Bastards) Where a bond in a bastardy case is not according to statute, but is valid at common law, the remedy is by common-law action, and not by motion under the statute. Bonds 58 k 31 58 Bonds 58I Requisites and Validity 58k31 k. Statutory Bonds and Bonds Taken by Officers. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k35) A bond, whether or not it is required by a statute, is good at common law if entered into voluntarily and for a valuable consideration, and if not repugnant to the letter or policy of the law. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. At the January term of the Henry county court, William Thompson was adjudged to be the father of Leroy Jackson, a bastard child, and was ordered to pay, for the maintenance and support of the child, twenty-five dollars annually, for eight years; the first payment to be made the first of February, 1825, and the other payments to be made the first of January, in each successive year. Judgment against Thompson for him to execute bond with surety for the support of the bastard. Thompson was, at the same time, directed to give bond and security for the amount adjudged against him; but he appears to have departed from court without having done so. Thompson departs. An order was, however, made by the court, directing a writ to issue, commanding the sheriff to take Thompson, and him commit to jail until he should give bond and security to pay the several instalments, according to the order of the court. Order for a writ to issue to take and imprison Thompson till he execute bond. The writ issued, and Thompson was arrested by the sheriff; and he thereupon, together with Amasa Thompson, executed a bond acknowledging themselves indebted to Robert Buckhannan, who was appointed guardian for Leroy Jackson, in the penal sum of four hundred dollars, conditioned to pay the several instalments at the time mentioned in the order of court. *2 Thompson is arrested and gives bond. The first instalment became payable, and Buckhannan, in the name of the commonwealth, for Leroy Jackson, notified the Thompsons that he would, on a named day, move the county court for a judgment against them, for the first instalment. The motion was accordingly made, and judgment rendered against the Thompsons for twenty-five dollars, in favor of the commonwealth, by Robert Buckhannan, for the use of Lerov Jackson. Motion in the county court by the guardian of the bastard, for the first installment on the bond against Thompson and his surety, and judgment accordingly. The judgment can not be sustained. By adverting to the act of assembly upon the subject of bastards, it will be found that the bond which was executed by the Thompsons, is not such an one as is required to be taken in such cases. Instead of having been given to the guardian of the bastard, to have conformed to the requisitions of that act, the bond should have been executed to the Governor; and although, by subsequent acts, such bonds are allowed to be taken to the Commonwealth, we know of none that substitutes the guardian of the bastard, in the place of the Commonwealth or Governor. The bond not having been taken, therefore, in conformity to the requisitions of law, it follows that the judgment can not be sustained. For it is only to recover whatever may be due and payable upon bonds taken in conformity to the requisitions of law, that redress is given by the act, on motion. Bond in case of bastardy must be taken payable to the commonwealth. If taken payable to the guardian, the motion to recover the installments given by statute will not lie. Though not executed in conformity to the act, the bond may possibly be binding on the Thompsons; but if it be, the remedy must be by action at common law, and not by motion, as is provided by the act in case of bonds taken in pursuance to its directions. Bonds not according to the statute may be valid at common law. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and the notice and motion dismissed with cost. C. S. Bibb, for plaintiffs; Denny, attorney-general, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Thompson v. Commonwealth 4 T.B.Mon. 484, 20 Ky. 484, 1827 WL 1465 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
