(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 189,  8 Ky. 189 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1298 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Briscoe's Heirs, &c. v. Thomas M'Gee et al. Apr. 13, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 52 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(E) Duration and Continuity of Possession 20k52 k. Purchase of Outstanding Title or Claim. Most Cited  Cases An occupant's buying the improvements made on an interfering claim does not render his possession amicable to that interfering claim. Adverse Possession 20 k 98 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k98 k. Possession Under Claim of Right Without Color of  Title. Most Cited Cases Adverse possession for 20 years of land previously surveyed, with lines and corners marked, extends to such lines and corners, and not merely to the land actually inclosed. Adverse Possession 20 k 103 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k99 Possession Under Color of Title 20k103 k. Mixed Possession Under Hostile Titles,  or Conflicting Grants or Surveys. Most Cited Cases Adverse possession of a survey within an interference extends to the limits of the survey, though no patent has issued. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Assuming the fact to be, as the evidence introduced on the trial in the court below conduced to prove; and as upon the existence of which the instructions of that court were hypothecated, that the plaintiffs in error had been possessed of the land in contest adversely, for upwards of twenty years before the bringing of the present suit, there is no doubt but, that according to the repeated decisions of this court, the court below improperly, by their instructions to the juhy, confined the operation of the plaintiff's possession to their actual close; but that as the survey under which the possession was taken had been previously made. the lines and corners of that survey must be taken as forming the boundary and giving limits to the possession. Possession taken of a survey and within an interference, extends to the limits of the survey, though no patent had issued And as the plaintiff, Parmenias Briscoe, is proven to have entered upon and taken the possession of the land in contest, in company with and by the directions of his father, Gerard Briscoe; and as the possession appears also to have been taken under the claim of Gerard Biscoe, then actually surveyed, the possession so taken, we are of opinion, should be considered adverse to that of the defendant in error, although Parmenias, by a contract with a certain Inlow, to whom it is shewn the defendant had previously sold his claim to the land, purchased and paid him for the improvements made upon the land. *2 Such occupant buying the improvements made on an interfering claim, does not render his possession amicable to that interfering claim. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Bibb, for plaintiff; B. Hardin, for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1818. Briscoe v. McGee 1 A.K.Marsh. 189, 8 Ky. 189, 1818 WL 1298 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
