(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 220,  10 Ky. 220 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1037 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thomas Mummy et al. v. George Johnston et al. Apr. 4, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Acknowledgment 12 k 5 12 Acknowledgment 12I Nature and Necessity 12k5 k. Unacknowledged Instruments. Most Cited Cases Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 231(15) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(C) Bona Fide Purchasers 400k225 Notice 400k231 Records 400k231(14) Void and Defective  Instruments 400k231(15) k. Absence of or Defect  in Acknowledgment or Proof. Most Cited Cases A conveyance, neither proved nor acknowledged, and lodged with the clerk to be recorded, does not affect the right of a creditor or purchaser. Appeal and Error 30 k 170(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(A) Issues and Questions in Lower Court 30k170 Nature or Subject-Matter of Issues or  Questions 30k170(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The question as to the right of a party to a new trial cannot be raised in the appellate court when the question has never been decided by the court below upon exceptions to the court's refusal to award it. Equity 150 k 431 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k431 k. Construction and Operation. Most Cited Cases A decree in chancery does not alter the legal position of the parties claiming land adversely until the decree is consummated by a conveyance. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an ejectment brought by the present appellees to recover a tract of land lying in Montgomery county. They claim the land under a purchase from the sheriff, at a sale made in virtue of a writ of fieri facias, which issued on a decree pronounced in favor of the appellee, Johnston, against the devisees of Jacob Myers, dec'd.; and on the trial in the circuit court, he produced in evidence, the deed from the sheriff to Johnston, made in 1816, in pursuance of a sale in the same year, the fieri facias under which the sale was made, the decree on which the fieri facias issued, together with the patent to Jacob Myers deceased, and evidence conducing to shew the land was devised by Jacob Myers to the persons against whom the decree in favor of Johnston was pronounced. After this evidence was gone through, the present appellants, who were defendants in the circuit court, produced in evidence, the copy of a decree of the Bourbon circuit court, pronounced in 1814, in a suit between the appellants and the heir of Jacob Myers, deceased, &c., determining that the appellants had right to a conveyance of the land in contest from the heirs of Myers, but no conveyance appears to have been executed until after the appellee, Johnston, purchased and obtained a deed of conveyance from the sheriff. Whereupon the appellants moved the court to instruct the jury, that the right being determined between them and the heirs of Myers, under whom the appellees claim the decree, took away the appellees' right of entry, the right being thereby determined between the appellants and those under whom the appellees claim; but the court overruled the motion, and refused to give the instructions as asked for. *2 The right of entry is merely legal and can not be affected by the decree of the chancellor, unless that decree is consummated by a conveyance--the chancellor may compel obedience to his decree, but the mere decree does not alter the legal position of the party. This court entertains no doubt of the correctness of the decision of the circuit court in refusing to give the instructions to the jury. The right of entry, is a legal right, and can not be transformed by the chancellor's decree. The chancellor may decide on the equitable right, to have a transfer of the legal right of entry, and may enforce a compliance with this decree, by compelling a conveyance; but until the conveyance is actually made, the right of entry remains as it was before the decree, and can not be said to have been taken away or defeated by the decree. It was contended in argument, that the decree introduced by the appellants, was not final, and as such, the suit was depending, when the sale and conveyance were made by the sheriff; and hence, it was urged that the appellants can have gained no title under that sale and conveyance, in consequence of being purchasers pendente lite. It is obvious, however, that the argument assumes a position not taken in the motion to instruct, and involves a principle not decided by the circuit court. The court was asked, barely, to instruct the jury that the decree took away the appellee's right of entry; and that, in consequence of the pending of the suit, the appellants gained no title under the purchase from the sheriff, but that in consequence of the right having been determined by the decree, the right of entry was defeated. It was, therefore, as to the effect of the decree, and not what would be the effect of a conveyance made whilst the suit was depending, the court was asked for, and gave an opinion. A question arising collaterally in the appellate court, and never decided by the court below, can not be noticed by the appellate court. In the progress of the cause in the circuit court, and after the appellants had introduced a deed of conveyance, made by part of the devisees of Jacob Myers, for the land in contest, before the date of the execution under which the land was sold by the sheriff, the court instructed the jury, that the deed, in consequence of its not having been proven or acknowledged, and lodged with the clerk of the proper county, to be recorded in the time required by law, was void as to the execution of Johnston, under which the appellees claim. In so instructing the jury, the court, no doubt, decided correctly. The deed thus declared void, was held by this court, at the las term, in the case of More, &c. against Farran, and al. not to have been duly proved and "lodged to be recorded," and we still entertain no doubt of the correctness of the opinion there expressed. A conveyance neither proved or acknowledged and lodged in time with the clerk ""to be recorded," does not affect the right of a creditor or purchaser. *3 After the jury had found a verdict for the appellees, the counsel for the appellants, moved the court for a new trial, on the ground of surprise; and it was contended in argument, that the court erred, in refusing to award a new trial. But it should be remarked, that the assignment of errors, barely question the correctness of the opinions of the court contained in exceptions filed by the appellants, and there is no exceptions to the court's refusal to award a new trial. If, however, the assignment of errors had presented the question, as the record contains no exceptions to the decision of the court, in overruling the motion for a new trial, this court could not, consistent with the uniform course of adjudications, reverse that decision. The decision, in either granting or refusing a new trial, must always be presumed correct until the contrary is made to appear, and without an exception to the opinion of the court, it is impossible for this court to say, that the allegation of surprise was not sufficiently disproved on the hearing of the motion for a new trial. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Ky.App. 1821. Mummy v. Johnston 3 A.K.Marsh. 220, 10 Ky. 220, 1821 WL 1037 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
