(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 569,  8 Ky. 569 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1087 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Walter White, &c. v. Robinson. Jun. 10, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 344 150 Equity 150V Evidence 150k338 Answer as Evidence 150k344 k. For or Against Codefendant. Most Cited  Cases The answer of one defendant is not evidence against a co-defendant. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is brought to reverse a decree pro nounced in favor of Robinson, perpetuating an injunction to a judgment at law, recovered against him by White, as the assignee of an obligation given to Johnson and Chapman. The answer of one defendant can not form the basis of a decree against another, nor can the implied admission of one defendant on taking the bill for confessed, form such basis. The bill charges that the obligation was given by Robinson to secure usurious interest, agreed to be given by him for the loan of l150. White, by his answer, throws Robinson upon the proof of his equity. No depositions were taken--but upon the bill being taken for confessed against the assignors, Johnson and Chapman, the decree, perpetuating the injunction against the judgment recovered by White was pronounced. That decree, we are of opinion, can not be sustained.--The bill, as to Johnson and Chapman, having been regularly taken as confessed, must, as to them, be considered as true, and entitled to all the weight of an admission by them of the allegations of the bill against White. But no rule is better, has been more frequently acted upon and recognized by the decisions of this court, than that the answer of one defendant in chancery, can not from the basis of a decree against others. Those cases, in which this court has heretofore applied the rule, are not only in principle like the present, but some of them so perfectly analagous in all their circumstances, as to furnish conclusive authority against the decree of the court below. The decree, must therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the court below, and the bill, as to White dismissed with cost--but as to the assignors, a decree should be entered in favor of Robinson, according to the equity asserted in the bill. Hardin for plaintiff in error. Ky.App. 1819. White v. Robinson 1 A.K.Marsh. 569, 8 Ky. 569, 1819 WL 1087 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
