(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 351,  10 Ky. 351 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1088 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Benjamin K. Jenkins v. Jeremiah Bush. Apr. 17, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 44(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k43 Joint and Separate Claims and Liabilities 352k44 In General 352k44(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A bond given to one, but really for the benefit and use of another, is subject to any equity which may exist between the obligor and the person for whose benefit the bond is executed. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Under a power of attorney given by Hyronimus and wife authorizing Jenkins to sell a legacy which the wife was entitled to from the estate of Ambrose Bush, dec., Jenkins sold the legacy to the defendant in error, Jeremiah Bush, for four hundred dollars, and to secure the payment thereof, Bush gave his note to Jenkins, payable at a named day. The note not being paid according to its stipulations, Jenkins brought an action at law, and recovered judgment against Bush. To be released from the judgment, Bush exhibited his bill in equity with injunction, alleging among other things that in making the sale and taking the note, Jenkins acted as the agent and attorney in fact of Hyronimus and wife; that the note, though executed in the name of Jenkins, was given for the use and benefit of Hyronimus and wife; that he has paid Jenkins one hundred dollars in part of the note, and holds a note for three hundred dollars, given by the said Hyronimus to Ambrose Bush, dec. and which has been assigned by the administrator of said Ambrose to him; that he has demanded of Jenkins to receive the note on Hyronimus and release the judgment at law, but Jenkins refuses to do so; he moreover charges that Hyronimus is out of the state and insolvent; and after making Hyronimus and wife and Jenkins defendants, asks for an injunction against the judgment; and that on final hearing the injunction may be decreed perpetual, &c. Jenkins, by his answer admits the sale of the legacy under the power of attorney from Hyronimus and wife, but alleges that at the time the note was given, he was bound as endorser for Hyronimus on a note previously given by Hyronimus, and that Hyronimus being unable to pay the endorsed note, the note was executed by Bush in his name as an indemnity, and for the purpose of securing him against the endorsement; he also alleges that he has since had to pay the endorsed note, and insists upon his right to the benefit of the judgment at law, &c. A bond given to one man, but really for the use and benefit of another, is subject to any equity which may exist between the obligor and person for whose benefit the bond is taken. Hyronimus and wife also answered; and the cause having come on to a final bearing, the court decreed the injunction perpetual against the judgment at law and decreed the defendants in that court to pay costs. We entertain no dobt but the decree is correct. There is not only a total lack of evidence on the part of Jenkins conducing to prove the note to have been given on the consideration and for the purpose alleged in his answer; but to the contrary, it is satisfactorily proven that the note was given by Bush to Jenkins exclusively for the use and benefit of Hyronimus and wife. *2 Under these circumstances, it was clearly correct for the court to decree to Bush a discount for the note which he held on Hyronimus, and which he was unable to recover at law, in consequence of the absence of Hyronimus from the state. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Wickliffe and Hanson for plaintiff, Haggin for defendant. Ky.App. 1821. Jenkins v. Bush 3 A.K.Marsh. 351, 10 Ky. 351, 1821 WL 1088 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
