(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 194,  8 Ky. 194 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1304 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Green Clay v. Samuel Sweet. Apr. 15, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE GARRARD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes False Imprisonment 168 k 16 168 False Imprisonment 168I Civil Liability 168I(B) Actions 168k16 k. Nature and Form of Remedy. Most Cited  Cases Trespass is the proper remedy for the recovery of damages for false imprisonment. Action 13 k 30 13 Action 13II Nature and Form 13k29 Forms of Action at Common Law 13k30 k. Distinctions as to Form. Most Cited  Cases The action for improperly holding a defendant to bail is trespass, and not case. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This action was brought by Sweet in the court below, for the purpose of recovering damages against Clay, for an injury occasioned by his being improperly held to bail in an action previously brought against him by Clay. The bail was required by order of an assistant judge; but as it was made in a penal action, without the authority of law, Clay, at whose instance it was obtained, is clearly liable for an injury necessarily resulting from it; and as the act of the judge (giving it the most favorable construction) can be viewed in no better light than the exercise of an excess of jurisdiction, trespass, and not case, is the proper remedy for an imprisonment occasioned by it. 4 Chitty, plead. 183, and the authorities there cited. The action for improperly holding a defendant to bail, is trespass, not case. As, therefore, we are of opinion the several writs, and the several counts of the declaration, are properly and substantially in trespass, the action of the defendant in error was properly conceived, and the demurrer of the plaintiff in error correctly overruled by the court below. But we are also of opinion the court erred in permitting to go to the jury the evidence, introduced by the defendant in error, in relation to his surrender by the special bail; for as his action can not be maintained but upon the ground of the action brought against him not demanding bail, it is clear that the bail was correctly discharged by the court below; and as the bail's power over the principal must have ceased by the order discharging him, it follows, that for any subsequent surrender, the bail alone, and not Clay, must be responsible. After the bail is discharged by order of the court, if he surrenders the principal, the bail and not the plaintiff is liable, unless the plaintiff procured the surrender. As, therefore, it appears from the record introduced by the defendant in error, that the bail was discharged before he surrendered the principal, in the absence of all evidence conducing to shew that Clay was instrumental in causing the surrender, the court ought to have rejected the evidence introduced by the defendant in error, in relation to the surrender. Because, therefore, the court improperly admitted the evidence, the judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Bibb, for plaintiff; Wickliffe. for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1818. Clay v. Sweet 1 A.K.Marsh. 194, 8 Ky. 194, 1818 WL 1304 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
