(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 336,  10 Ky. 336 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1083 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Hurt v. Alexander Miller. Apr. 16, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE GREEN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Trial 388 k 143 388 Trial 388VI Taking Case or Question from Jury 388VI(A) Questions of Law or of Fact in General 388k143 k. Conflicting Evidence. Most Cited Cases Questions as to which there is a conflict of evidence must be submitted to the jury, and it is error to grant a nonsuit or direct a verdict. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of detinue, brought by Hurt to recover from Miller, a negro man named Wiatt. Miller held the possession of the negro under a purchase from the sheriff, at a sale made in virtue of a writ of fieri facias, which issued on a judgment obtained by Miller in the circuit court, against a certain John Hancock; and Hurt claims title to the negro under a purchase and bill of sale from said John Hancock, prior to the date of the fieri facias under which the sale was made by the sheriff to Miller. On the trial in the circuit court, it was contended by Miller, that the purchase of Hurt and the bill of sale from Hancock to him, were made with the intention of defrauding Hancock's creditors; whereas it was insisted by Hurt, that his purchase was made in good faith, and for a full and valuable consideration. To maintain their several positions, each party introduced evidence, in some respects consistent with, but in others, repugnant to, that of the other; and after the evidence of each party was brought, the counsel of Miller moved the court, and it accordingly, among other things instructed the jury, that if they believed all the evidence in the case to be true, and all the facts that could reasonably be inferred therefrom, the law arising thereon was for Miller, and they ought to find for him. Where contradictory evidence is given by the parties, it is irregular for the court to instruct the jury, that if they believed all the evidence, they should find for either one of the parties.--Weighing the evidence should be left to the jury, without any intimation of the court's opinion. The jury accordingly found for Miller, and judgment having been rendered in conformity to the verdict, Hurt appealed to this court. This court is of opinion, that the circuit court erred in its instructions. It erred, because it was irregular, after the introduction of contradictory evidence by each party, for the court to hypothecate its instruction, for the jury to find for Miller, upon their belief of all the evidence, and the facts which the evidence conduced to prove; and it was irregular, because, instead of leaving the jury to weigh the credibility of the witnesses and determine the facts without any intimation of opinion from the court on the evidence, the instructions imply an opinion and decision by the court, that both the facts and law were in favor of Miller's right to recover. It is true, that instructions are hypothecated upon the jury's belief of the evidence, but before the court could know as matter of law, that the jury ought to find for Miller, it was important to know what facts were established by the evidence, and consequently by instructing the jury to find for Miller, if they believed the evidence, the court not only gave the conclusions of law, but as the evidence conduced to prove contradictory facts, the court must, also, have decided, as well on the weight of the evidence in relation to those facts, as on the facts which the evidence conduced to prove. *2 Where there is contradictory evidence, any instruction given by the court should be hypothecated on the existence of certain facts to be ascertained by the jury. Instead, therefore, of the instructions which were given to the jury, the court should have hypothecated them on the existence of specific facts to be ascertained by the jury. It is not intended to say that it would be irregular in any possible case for the court to instruct the jury to find for a plaintiff, if they believed the evidence. Though not according to the most approved practice, such instructions might be sustained, whenever a decision of the cause might be withdrawn from the jury to the court, by a demurrer to evidence; but that can never be done after the introduction of contradictory evidence by both parties. After the introduction of the contradictory evidence, the cause can not be withdrawn from the jury by demurrer to evidence. The judgment must consequently be reversed with costs the cause remanded and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin for appellant, Thornton & Caldwell for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Hunt v. Miller 3 A.K.Marsh. 336, 10 Ky. 336, 1821 WL 1083 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
