(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 402,  8 Ky. 402 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1438 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Sebre et al. v. Eve's Adm'r. Dec. 3, 1818. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 128 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k128 k. Representatives of Deceased Executors or  Administrators. Most Cited Cases An administrator of an administrator cannot, in that capacity, recover demands due the first intestate, but, as administrator of the second intestate, he may arrest debts due the administrator of the first intestate, where he is an absentee, and apply them to the discharge of the demand. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Logan. *1 William Sebre, William Eve, and John Eve, by an agreement, bearing date in June, 1803, became co-partners in trade, for the purposes stipulated in the articles of copartnership. In February, 1804, William Eve, together with John his security, gave their obligation to Craig for l256; and William Eve having thereafter departed this life, John, by a separate obligation, given by himself, discharged the one executed by him and William. John having also obtained from the county court of Pendleton, letters of administration upon the estate of William in his character of administrator, and in his personal right exhibited his bill in equity against Sebre and Watts for the purpose, as he charges of obtaining from them indemnity for the debt contracted with Craig, and moreover, for the purpose of obtaining, as administrator, a decree against them for the balance which he charges to be due the estate of William Eve, as well for the profits of the copartnership, as for the amount of eight hundred pounds, which is alleged to have been advanced by William, and for the payment of which it is contended Watts is equally bound. After various amendments to his bill John Eve also died, and George Eve having administered upon his estate, as the administrator of John, who he states to have been the administrator of William Eve, he obtained a revival of the suit, and by a supplemental, or as it is termed in the record an amended bill, asks for the appropriate relief to which the various charges in the bills may entitle him. Upon a final hearing, the court below supposing that he was entitled to relief, decreed that Sebre and Watts should pay him the amount for which the obligation was given by William and John Eve to Craig; and from that decree they have appealed to this court. An administrator of an administrator can not, in that capacity recover a demand due the first intestate. As the administrator of an administrator, it is perfectly clear that George Eve can not be entitled to recover in any form of action; but as the administrator of John it was certainly incumbent upon him to resort to all legal means for the purpose of recovering any demands which might be due the intestate. John Eve having discharged the obligation given by him as the security for William, was no doubt entitled to remuneration from the estate of William, but as that remuneration was not obtained in his lifetime, it became necessary after his decease, for George Eve, his administrator, to endeavor, by the appropriate remedy, to obtain it; and as a suit had been brought by John for that purpose, although it may have combined a demand, in his right of administrator to William, which George as his administrator has no power to investigate, yet upon his decease it was certainly proper for George, in order to obtain compensation for the debt his intestate, to obtain a revival, and by a supplement to the bill, present his claim for the determination of the court. *2 Whether it was proper for John Eve to combine in the same bill, a claim in his fiduciary character, with one in his own right, need not now be decided; for as by the revival, his administrator can have no right to investigate the claim asserted in his character of administrator to William, the consideration of the claim of John in his personal right, and that only, forms the subject of consideration in the present case. There is no question, according to the evidence exhibited in the record, but that the estate of William Eve should be subjected to this claim; and as Sebre and Watts are both proven to be indebted to William Eve's estate, a sum equal at least to the amount claimed, upon the hypothesis of William's representative residing without this country, the chancellor here might, most unquestionably, under the statute authorizing proceedings against absent debtors, compel them to pay over to the administrator of John the amount proven to be owing from the estate of William. The first decedent being indebted to the second decedent, the administrator of the second decedent may arrest debts due the administrator of the first decedent (he being a non-resident) and apply them to the discharge of the demand. The pendency of a suit in a sister State by a non-resident against his debtors resident here, should not prevent the chancellor from attaching the debts due to such absentee in the hands of his debtors here, and apply them to the payment of debts due by the absentee but such absentee should be a party. Nor can the circumstance of a suit having been brought against Sebre and Watts in the state of Virginia, by the administrator of William Eve, appointed by the courts there, preclude the chancellor here, from extending to the administrator of John, the appropriate relief. As that suit appears to have been brought there for the purpose of compelling an account of the copartnership transactions, and as the process appears to have been served upon Sebre, that court may no doubt determine upon the amount due from Sebre to the estate of William; but as the administrator of John is no party to that suit, and the claim now asserted by him is in no respect brought in question there, the pendency of that suit should not, in anywise, control the decision in this. In deciding upon the case here, it is true, as the object of the suit is to obtain satisfaction for a debt due from the estate of William out of a demand alleged to be owing by Sebre and Watts to that estate, it becomes essentially necessary to inquire into the justice of the alleged demand, but that circumstance, although involved in the contest in the suit in Virginia, we apprehend ought not to preclude the courts here from exercising the jurisdiction conferred upon them by the statute relating to absent debtors. But as the defendants, Sabre and Watts, can only be subjected to the demand of the administrator of John, in a proceeding against the administrator of William, as an absent debtor, it follows, that the administrator should have been made a party to the suit. *3 Because, therefore, the administrator is no party, the decree must be reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below, and the complainant there allowed, if he should apply for leave to do so, to amend his bill by making the proper parties. And in making the amendment, it may be moreover proper, for the complainant there, as he can obtain no decree against Watts and Sebre, but upon the ground of the administrator being an absentee, to suggest more distinctly whether the administrator is, or is not, a resident of Virginia. But should the complainant not apply for leave to amend his bill, it must be dismissed without prejudice to another suit; but upon the event of an amendment being made, the cause should then proceed to a final hearing, and such decree and orders made as may comport with the equity of the case. Ky.App. 1818. Sebre v. Eve's Adm'r 1 A.K.Marsh. 402, 8 Ky. 402, 1818 WL 1438 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
