(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 84,  8 Ky. 84 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1168 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gashweller's Heirs v. Daniel M'Ilvoy. Dec. 2, 1817. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE AN ORDER OF THE MERCER COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Eminent Domain 148 k 75 148 Eminent Domain 148II Compensation 148II(A) Necessity and Sufficiency in General 148k73 Necessity of Payment Before Taking 148k75 k. Taking by United States, state, or  municipality. Most Cited Cases Where a statute authorizing the condemnation of real property for a public road does not require the damages to be paid before the property is taken, the road may be established on the property without a previous payment of the damages to the owner. Highways 200 k 72(2) 200 Highways 200II Alteration 200k69 Alteration of Course, Width, or Grade 200k72 Proceedings 200k72(2) k. Petition, notice, and appearance. Most  Cited Cases In proceedings to alter a road so as to make it pass through the lands of heirs, infant heirs, having previously appeared, need not be summoned before a guardian ad litem is appointed. Highways 200 k 72(5) 200 Highways 200II Alteration 200k69 Alteration of Course, Width, or Grade 200k72 Proceedings 200k72(5) k. Commissioners or viewers. Most Cited  Cases The report of viewers for altering a road to pass through the land of heirs need not respectively name the heirs. It is sufficient to give a general description to enable the court to summon the parties. Infants 211 k 1241 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1241 k. Eligibility and qualifications in general;   bond. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 211k80(1)) In proceedings to alter a road to pass through the land of heirs, it is not improper to appoint one of the viewers a guardian ad litem to defend on behalf of the heirs. Infants 211 k 1243 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1243 k. Resignation, removal, and successorship.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 211k80(1)) The county court has power to displace one guardian ad litem appointed for the purpose of defending infant heirs, in a proceeding to alter a road to pass through their lands, and appoint another to defend. Infants 211 k 1240(2) 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1240 Proceedings for  Appointment 211k1240(2) k. Process as prerequisite to  appointment. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 211k80(2)) Failure to serve process on infants who were in court, before the appointment of a guardian ad litem to defend for them, will not render the appointment invalid. Infants 211 k 1286 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(B) Course of Proceedings 211k1286 k. Notice and process. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k89) Where infants are in court before the appointment of a guardian ad litem to defend for them, the failure to serve them with process will not affect the validity of an order against them. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 This writ of error was brought to reverse an order of the Mercer county court, altering a public road. By the assignment of error, various objections are taken to the proceedings in that court; and such of them as are deemed material we shall examine in the order they occur. It is first objected, that the report of the viewers, upon which the alteration was made, is irregular and void, in consequence of the heirs of Gashweller, through whose land the road is reported to run, not being respectively named. But upon adverting to the law regulating the establishment and alteration of roads, no provision is perceived upon which this objection can be sustained. The viewers are certainly nowhere expressly required to name in their report the persons through whose land the road may be proposed to run; but as it is made their duty to report the conveniences and inconveniences which may result as well to individuals as the public, if the road should be established, it is proper, for the purpose of having them brought before the court, that those individuals should, either by the report of the viewers, or in some other way, be made known to the court, but as that may, as it has in the present case, be done by the viewers representing in general terms that the heirs of Joseph Gashweller would sustain an individual injury, we can not suppose the failure to name the heirs is a material defect. The report of viewers for altering a road to pass through the lands of heirs need not respectively name the heirs; it is sufficient to give a general descriptio personis, to enable the court to summon the parties. It is secondly objected, that the court proceeded irregularly in appointing a guardian for the infant heirs of Gashweller, and trying the cause, without causing them to be previously served with process to appear in court. This objection we are also of opinion can not be sustained. If, in any case, infants should be served with process before the appointment of a guardian to defend for them, it must be for the purpose of causing them to appear in court, and consequently, as by the record in this case, the heirs of Gashweller are shown to have been in court before the guardian, who defended for them, was appointed, the failure to serve them with process, if otherwise necessary, ought not to affect the validity of the order changing the road. Infant heirs having previously appeared, need not be summoned before a guardian ad litem is appointed. It is again objected, that the court improperly appointed Joshua Barbee guardian to defend for the heirs, because he appears to have been one of the viewers who made report in the present case, and because there appears to have been another guardian previously appointed. As the court possessed the power of appointing a guardian, it was certainly competent for them, whenever the circumstances in their estimation required it, by the appointment of another guardian, to remove any which might have been previously appointed, and although Barbee was one of the viewers, that can not, upon any principle of law or propriety, have disqualified him from acting as guardian or furnishing any just objection to his appointment. *3 It is not improper to appoint one of the viewers a guardian to defend. It is not improper to displace one guardian and appoint another to defend. But it is moreover objected, that the road should not have been established on the land of such of the plaintiffs in error, in whose favor damages were assessed, without those damages having been previously paid to them. The act of assembly under which these proceedings were had, nowhere requires such payment, but the objection is taken upon the hypothesis of its being indispensable, under the constitution of this country. Construction given to the 12 sect. of the 10th article of the constitution. It will be recollected that upon the establishment of a road, the owners of the land through which it runs, becomes by operation of law invested with a legal right to the damages which may have been assessed in their favor and that the court is imperatively required to levy the same in the next county levy. Those persons, therefore, in whose favor damages were assessed in this case, although not actually paid, they are, by the provisions of law, secured in the payment of those damages; and as such we suppose, that in the sense intended by the makers of the constitution, a just compensation is made to them for the land over which the road has been established. Such has not only been the contemporaneous exposition of the constitution, by the legislature of this country in their various enactments upon the subject, but that exposition has also been recognized by the invariable practice ever since the adoption of the constitution to the present time and after such a uniformity of construction for such a length of time we have no disposition, whatever doubts might exist, was it a case of the first impression, to depart from it. We do not therefore think, that from anything contained in the constitution, the damages assessed should have been paid to the owners of the land before the road was established. It is also objected, that the court erred in relation to the interest of the heirs of Abraham Gashweller in not levying the amount of damages assessed in their favor. To this objection it need however be only replied, that the law nowhere requires the levy to be made at the time of establishing the road, but directs it to be done at the laying the next levy. Upon the whole we are of opinion, that the record presents no error apparent upon its face, which can warrant this court in setting aside the order establishing the road: and as we are of opinion, the assignment of error does not question the propriety of the decision of the county court upon the facts of the case, the judgment must be affirmed with cost. Wickliffe for plaintiff in error, Hardin for defendant. Ky.App. 1817. Gashweller's Heirs v. McIlvoy 1 A.K.Marsh. 84, 8 Ky. 84, 1817 WL 1168 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
