(Cite as: 4 Bibb 468,  7 Ky. 468 (Ky.),  1816 WL 836 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Vaughn v. Halstead. Dec. 3, 1816. *1 An action by petition and summons may be brought against a surviving obligor--an averment of the death of the other unnecessary. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 448 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k448 k. Nature and Form of Remedy. Most Cited Cases It is only where some averment is necessary to show the plaintiff's right of suit that a petition and summons will not lie to recover a sum of money due by note or other obligation. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. HALSTEAD and Maglone, on the 25th day of July, 1810 executed a joint obligation to Vaughn for the payment of $245; and after the decease of Maglone, Vaughn brought this petition and summons against Halstead; and the question now presented for the decision of this Court, is, can the action be sustained? As the obligation is joint, according to the settled doctrine of the common law, no other than a joint action could, during the life of both the obligors, be maintained upon it. But even should a separate action be brought against only one, while both are alive, the objection could only be taken by a plea in abatement; and in such a plea barely to aver the obligation was given by two jointly, would not be sufficient; but the obligor not sued should be moreover alleged to be still living. If then the circumstance of there being another obligor living is pleadable in abatement only, it incontestably follows that in declaring in an action against a survivor, barely to charge the giving the obligation by him, without making any averment as to the other, would be sufficient; and if so, it inevitably results that a petition and summons will lie against the survivor: for it is only where some averment is necessary to show the plaintiff's right of suit that a petition and summons will not lie to recover a sum of money due by note or other obligation. The judgment of the Court below must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to that Court, and judgment there entered in favor of the appellant. Ky.App. 1816. Vaughn v. Halstead 4 Bibb 468, 7 Ky. 468, 1816 WL 836 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
