(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 240,  20 Ky. 240 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1411 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Milnes v. Turner's Heirs. Apr. 3, 1827. *1 Insanity. Powers of Attorney. Fines and Recoveries. Estoppel. Registration of Deeds. Recognizances and Statutes. Equity. Husband and Wife. Arbitration. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEO. SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Mental Health 257A k 382.1 257A Mental Health 257AIV Disabilities and Privileges of Mentally Disordered Persons 257AIV(C) Contracts and Transfers of Property 257Ak382 Conveyances 257Ak382.1 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 257Ak382) The representatives of a lunatic are not precluded from availing themselves of the insanity of their ancestor to set aside a deed made by him because he acknowledged it in open court. Alternative Dispute Resolution 25T k 314 25T Alternative Dispute Resolution 25TII Arbitration 25TII(G) Award 25Tk313 Conformity to Submission 25Tk314 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 33k57.1, 33k57  Arbitration) The submission must appear, that it may be seen that the award is within it. Alternative Dispute Resolution 25T k 385 25T Alternative Dispute Resolution 25TII Arbitration 25TII(H) Review, Conclusiveness, and Enforcement of Award 25Tk381 Conclusiveness of Adjudication 25Tk385 k. Persons concluded. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 33k82(4)  Arbitration) An award on the submission of one tenant in common of land will not conclude the others. Alternative Dispute Resolution 25T k 406 25T Alternative Dispute Resolution 25TII Arbitration 25TII(H) Review, Conclusiveness, and Enforcement of Award 25Tk406 k. Pleading and evidence of award as estoppel or  defense. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 33k86  Arbitration) Where an award is pleaded in bar of an action, the submission must be shown to enable the court to judge whether the award was within the submission. Husband and Wife 205 k 9 205 Husband and Wife 205I Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities 205k7 Property of Wife 205k9 k. Real property. Most Cited Cases A submission by a husband of a contest concerning the title of land, held in right of his wife, is conclusive on him so far as the arbitrators have acted within the sphere of the submission, but cannot defeat her right after his death. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Under a letter of attorney, bearing date the 19th of November, 1793, John Fowler, in the name, and on behalf of William Mayo, conveyed by deed of bargain and sale, bearing date the 4th of July, 1794, a tract of land in the county of Madison, to Vincent Turner. Conveyance of Mayo by Fowler, his attorney, to Turner. The letter of attorney under which Fowler acted in making this deed, was never regularly proved and recorded, and on the thirteenth of December one thousand eight hundred and four, Mayo by a deed of bargain and sale, conveyed to Fowler "all the remaining right, title and interest he then had to any and every tract or tracts of land of any description whatever, lying within the bounds of Madison county." *2 Mayo's conveyance to Fowler. After this Vincent Turner, by letter of attorney, bearing date the 17th of November, 1803, authorized and empowered his brother, John Turner, to sell and convey all the real and personal estate that he then owned in the county of Madison. At this time Vincent and John Turner both resided in the State of Tennessee, and the letter of attorney, upon the acknowledgment of Vincent in open court, was ordered by the court of White county, to be recorded; but before any thing was done by John Turner, to whom the letter of attorney was given, Vincent Turner returned to this state, and caused to be published, by pasting on the doors of several of the most public houses in Richmond, Madison county, a written revocation of the power which he had given to John Turner. Turner's letter of attorney to his brother and its revocation. Not regarding this notification, John Turner afterwards sold to Miller, the land described in the deed to Vincent Turner, by Fowler as attorney in fact of Mayo, and on the twentieth day of June, one thousand eight hundred and ten, the land was conveyed to Milner, by John Turner, as the attorney in fact of Vincent Turner. Conveyance to Milner by Turner's brother, under the revoked power of attorney. Subsequent to this, Fowler, by a deed bearing date the 13th of April, 1813, conveyed the same land to Milner; but upon this deed there is a memorandum reciting that it was made in consequence of a deed theretofore made by Fowler, as attorney in fact for Wm. Mayo, dated the 4th of July, 1794, to Vincent Turner, and for the purpose of passing to Milner, who claimed to be a purchaser of the land, whatever right or title might be in Fowler, in consequence of the loss of the letter of attorney under which he acted, in previously conveying to Vincent Turner. Fowler conveys to Milner. In this state of the title, Milner brought an ejectment, for the purpose of recovering the possession of the land, and Vincent Turner having in the mean time departed this life childless, Jesse Noland, who married one of his sisters, appeared to the action, caused himself to be made a defendant, and by an agreement with Milner, had an order of court made, submitting the matters in contest to the arbitration and award of Edm'd. Bullock, R. Hickman and H. Taylor. The arbitrators were of opinion, and accordingly awarded, that the legal title to the land was in Milner, and that he had right to the possession; and the award was afterwards made the judgment of the court. Ejectment by Milner____Arbitration and award, and judgment accordingly for Milner. The present defendants in error, composing all the heirs and representatives of Vincent Turner deceased, except his brother John. then exhibited their bill in equity, with injunction against Milner and John Turner, for the purpose of being relieved against the judgment at law, and to compel Milner to surrender to them whatever title or semblance of title he may have derived either under the deed from John Turner, as the agent or attorney in fact of Vincent Turner, or under the deed afterwards made to him by Fowler. *3 Bill by Turner's heirs against his brother and Milner, for injunction against the judgment and release of claim. The bill sets out the various deeds of conveyance together with the different letters of attorney, and charges that at the date of the letter of attorney from Vincent Turner to his brother John, the former was, and had been, for a considerable time before, and continued until his death to be of unsound mind and memory, and totally incompetent to contract, or in any manner to dispose of his property; and that knowing the condition of his brother, the said John improperly and fraudulently procured the power of attorney to be executed and acknowledged in the State of Tennessee, and after having been informed of its actual revocation by Vincent Turner, the said John combining and confederating with Milner, who also knew of the revocation, in furtherance of his fraudulent purpose, contracted to convey, and in fact did convey the land to Milner. Allegations of the bill--of Turner's insanity. Milner answered the bill, denying the insanity of Vincent Turner, alleging his competency to contract; charging that he was an innocent purchaser for a valuable consideration, without fraud, and insisting upon the award of the arbitrators being conclusive upon the right set up by the defendants in error, and contending that as the heirs of Vincent Turner, they are concluded by his acknowledgment of the letter of attorney in the court of Tennessee, from questioning the competency of Vincent Turner to dispose of his estate. Milner's answer. During the pendency of the suit, John Turner departed this life, and the suit was discontinued as to his heirs, and by agreement of the parties, no exceptions were to be taken on account of John's heirs not being before the court. Turner's brother dies, and agreement to waive the revivor against his representatives. The court below was of opinion that the defendants in error were entitled to relief, and decreed that Milner should convey to them five-sixth of the land in contest, the other sixth being the part to which John Turner, as one of the heirs of Vincent Turner, would have been entitled, had he not disposed of it to Milner. Decree of the circuit court for injunction and release. To reverse that decree, Milner has prosecuted this writ of error. Unless there be some thing in the award of the arbitrators that forbids the interposition of a court of equity, we apprehend, there can be no reasonable doubt as to the correctness of the decree pronounced by the court below. As might be expected, there is not an entire concurrence of opinion between all the witnesses whose testimony have been taken, as to the insanity of Vincent Turner at the date of the letter of attorney which he gave to John Turner and under which John executed the deed of conveyance to Milner; but we have rarely, if ever, witnessed a case in which there was a more decided and preponderating weight of evidence to prove the fact of insanity, than is contained in the present record. So satisfactory and conclusive is the testimony upon the subject, that to us it appears impossible for an unprejudiced mind, after having examined and maturely weighed the evidence, to hesitate a moment in coming to the conclusion that Vincent Turner was not only insane when the letter of attorney was executed by him to his brother, but that he was known by John Turner to have been of unsound and not of disposing mind for some time before, and was then, and continued to be so until the time of his death. *4 Evidence of Turner's insanity examined. But against this conclusion we are met by an objection taken in argument to the propriety of questioning the competency of Vincent Turner to make the letter of attorney. We were referred to the doctrine of the English law, to prove that neither the lunatic humself, or his representatives are permitted to avoid a fine and recovery or even a recognizance, entered into by the lunatic, and we were told that the acknowledgment of the letter of attorney by Vincent Turner in the court of Tennessee, by parity of reason, should conclude the heirs and representatives of Vincent, from inquiring into the sanity of his mind, for the purpose of avoiding the letter of attorney. Acknowledgment of a letter of attorney in court here by a lunatic, likened to the acknowledgment of a fine in England. But were the doctrine upon the subject of fines, alluded to, admitted to apply to the acknowledgment of the power, the conclusion would not follow, that the representatives of Vincent Turner should not be allowed, in the present case, to go into the question of his capacity to dispose of his estate. For although a fine can not, at common law, be avoided on the ground of lunacy or idiocy, authorities are not wanting to show that even fines have been relieved against, in equity. One who acknowledges a fine in a state of insanity may be relieved in equity. Thus in 1 Fon. Eq. 1 V. 52, note k. it is said, that the remainderman was relieved against a fine levied by an idiot, even against a purchaser; and in support of the assertion Tothell's transactions 42 is cited.--So in the case of Addison, by his committee, against Dawson, Mascall, &c., 2 Vern. 678, the court decreed relief against a purchase, by deeds, fines and recoveries, procured from the lunatic at great under value. And in the case of Wilkerson against Brayfield, 2 Vernon, 307, a decree was made compelling the defendant who held under a conveyance by deed and fine, which was gained without consideration, and indirectly to re-convey. Authorities. These citations are not made to prove that in every case of lunacy it would be correct or proper for a court of equity to relieve against a fine, but they have been made for the purpose of shewing that although fines can not be avoided at law, on the ground of lunacy, yet in equity, when fraudulently obtained, relief may be had against them. The relief which ought, however, to be given in such a case, does not absolutely set aside or vacate the fine; but considering those who have taken it, under such circumstances as trustees, the court of chancery decrees a reconveyance of the estate to the person prejudiced by the fraud. 1 Fon. Eq. 53, note k. and the authorities there cited. Fines can not be avoided at common law, for the cognizor's insanity, but where there is fraud equity will give relief. Were we, therefore, to concede to the acknowledgment of the letter of attorney by Vincent Turner, the same force and effect of a fine, as was contended for in argument, instead of proving any thing prejudical to the right of the plaintiffs to go into the question of the sanity of Vincent Turner, it would demonstrate more clearly the propriety of their application to a court of equity, for the purpose of compelling Milner to convey the estate, which he obtained under the authority of the power conferred by the letter of attorney. For it is not upon the fact of insanity in Vincent Turner only, that the defendants in error rely for relief, but it is upon that fact, in connection with the fraud of John Turner, in procuring the letter of attorney, and in conveying the land that they have rested their case; and whatever effect may be given to the acknowledgment of the letter of attorney by Vincent Turner, it is unquestionably proper for the defendants in error to introduce evidence of the imbecility of his mind, for the purpose of establishing, in connection with other circumstances, the artifice and fraud charged upon John Turner. *5 Evidence of the party's insanity, is competent in connection with other facts to prove the fraudulent imposition upon him. But we are not prepared to admit the propriety of applying the doctrine which seems to have been followed in cases of fines, &c., not so much because it has any very satisfactory reason for its support, as because it has been so settled, to the acknowledgment of deeds before county courts. The analogy between the acknowledgment of deeds in court, and fines and recoveries, is not such as to require the application of the principles, which incidentally grow out of the one, to the other. Both are matters which transpire in court, but the deed in the former case does not, as the fine in the latter, derive its efficacy from the act of the court. The acknowledgment of the deed in court, by a party, is but evidence of that which was previously done, and from the doing of which, and not from the acknowledgment of having done it, all its force and effect upon the party is produced. But not so in the case of a fine. It is the judgment of the court that gives, as it were, life and effect to the fine; until the court acts, there is no right transferred; after it has acted the right is vested, and by the judgment of the court, the parties are estopped to question the right. Diversity between the acknowledgment of deeds with us, and the case of fines in England__________Here the execution of the deed which is but acknowledged in court, is the efficacious act____there it is the judgment of the fine which passes the title and estops the party. The same remarks might be made in relation to recognizances, statutes, &c., where the representatives of the person entering into the recognizance or acknowledging the statute, are not permitted to avoid them, on the ground of lunacy. They all derive their force and effect as records from the manner in which they are entered into, or acknowledged, and not as in the case of common deeds from the act of the parties. The like of recognizances and statutes. Hence we infer, that notwithstanding the letter of attorney to John Turner was acknowledged by Vincent Turner in open court, the defendants in error, as the representatives of Vincent, are not precluded from availing themselves of Vincent's insanity, to avoid the deed. Considered as without the influence of the principle which governs fines and recoveries, they might unquestionably have availed themselves of the insanity of their ancestor, in avoidance of the letter of attorney and the deed made thereunder to Milner at law, and we apprehend unless concluded by the award of the arbitrators, they are not precluded from doing so in a court of equity. Indeed the circumstance of there being outstanding in the hands of Milner, deeds of conveyance for the land, is in itself calculated so to embarrass the title, as to demand, in a peculiar and imposing manner, the aid of a court of equity to clear away those obstructions, and quiet the possession. Numberless cases are to be found in the reports of chancery cases where relief has been decreed against common deeds, upon the ground of lunacy, in favor of the representatives of the lunatic. *6 Representatives of one who acknowledges a deed of conveyance or letter of attorney, in open court, or otherwise, may have it cancelled in equity. But we have seen that whilst the action at law was pending, the matter in contest was submitted to arbitration, and that the arbitrators awarded the title to be in Milner, and in argument it was contended, that whatever right the defendants in error might have had to apply to chancery, if there had been no decision by the arbitrators, after the award made by them the question of title must be at rest, and that relief ought not to have been decreed. But as respects all the plaintiffs in error, except Noland, it is sufficient in answer to this argument to remark that they were no parties to the action at law, had no participation in making the submission to arbitrators, and of course their interest can not have been in any manner prejudiced by the award. As respects four-sixths of the land, therefore, the decree is most clearly correct. Arbitration on the submission of one parcener of land will not conclude the others. But the submission to arbitration was made by Noland, and is the award as to him to have the effect to preclude a decree in his favor, for the other fourth? The interest claimed by Noland in that fourth is in right of his wife, and no act of his can have the effect of defeating her right after his death; but during her life Noland is entitled to the use of her land, and of course may either dispose of his interest, or by any other act which would have the effect, were the right of the inheritance in him, defeat a recovery by him. Having, therefore, submitted the matter in contest to arbitration, Noland must be concluded by the award of the arbitrators so far as the arbitrators have acted within the sphere of the submission. Submission by the husband, of a controversy concerning the title of land held in right of his wife, can not effect more than his estate--hers will not be effected. But as it is the submission of the parties that confers authority on the arbitrators to act, to be conclusive to any purpose the submission should be shown to enable the court to judge whether or not, in making up their award, the arbitrators have acted within the pale of their authority. In the present case, however, we have been unable to find any submission, and of course can not say that the award is binding upon Noland. The award it is true, purports upon its face to have been made in pursuance to an order of court, and imports a decision by the arbitrators, that the legal title is in Milner; but the order of court containing the submission is not contained in the record, and Noland alleges that the arbitrators did not decide upon the question of the sanity of Vincent Turner. The submission must appear, to give effect to an award, that it may be seen the award is within the submission. Upon the whole, we are of opinion, the decree of the court is correct, and must be affirmed, with cost. Crittenden and Caperton, for the plaintiff; Turner, for the defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Milner v. Turner's Heirs 4 T.B.Mon. 240, 20 Ky. 240, 1827 WL 1411 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
