(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 35,  9 Ky. 35 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1142 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robert Ewing v. Wm. Bowling. Oct. 16, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BATH CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Landlord and Tenant 233 k 1786 233 Landlord and Tenant 233VIII Reentry and Recovery of Possession by Landlord 233VIII(D) Actions for Unlawful Detainer 233k1783 Right of Action and Defenses 233k1786 k. Grounds of action. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k290(2)) To constitute forcible detainer, there must be a refusal to restore possession after the termination of the lease. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent, Judge Rowan. This is an appeal from a judgment rendered by the circuit court on the trial of a traverse, taken by Ewing to an inquisition, finding him guilty of a forcible detainer upon a warrant issued in favor of Bowling. There were two trials in the circuit court. On the first, a verdict was found for Ewing; but on the application of Bowling it was set aside, on the ground of its being against evidence--and on the second trial a verdict being found for Bowling, judgment of restitution was rendered in his favor. Exceptions having been taken to the opinion of the court in awarding a new trial, and the evidence spread upon the record, it becomes material barely to examine, whether the verdict should have been set aside. At common law, actual force was necessary to constitute a forcible detainer, and now a refusal to restore possession after the expiration of the lease, is essential to the maintenance of the warrant. We are of opinion it should not. Whether the case can be considered either as at common law, or under the statute regulating proceedings in writs of forcible detainer, it is equally clear that, from the evidence exhibited in the record, the jury might very rationally infer Ewing not to have been guilty of a forcible detainer of the premises in contest. There is not a solitary circumstance conducing to prove actual force in the detention by Ewing, and the weight of evidence is opposed to to the conclusion of his having refused after the expiration of his lease, to restore the possession either in Bowling, or any other by him authorized to receive it; and it is plain, that to constitute a forcible detainer, before the passage of the statute, actual force was essential; and to create a forcible detainer under the statute, there must be a refusal to restore the possession after the termination of the tenants lease. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the circuit court, and judgment entered in favor of Ewing upon the first verdict. Bibb, for appellant. Ky.App. 1819. Ewing v. Bowling 2 A.K.Marsh. 35, 9 Ky. 35, 1819 WL 1142 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
