(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 354,  10 Ky. 354 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1091 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Samuel Lowe v. Alex. M'Donald et al. Apr. 19, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE WASHINGTON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 341(5) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(A) Recovery of Purchase Money Paid 400k341 Proceedings 400k341(5) k. Amount and Items of Recovery. Most Cited  Cases In an action for breach of a covenant to convey land by special warranty under a specified penalty, stated to be given for value received, the price paid for the land is the measure of damages;  but where the price is not proven, but evidence is given by defendant as to the value, the jury may presume it as the consideration. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 351(2) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(B) Actions for Breach of Contract 400k351 Damages 400k351(2) k. Value of Land in General. Most Cited  Cases On a breach of covenant to convey lands, with special warranty, the price given is the criterion of damages. If that is not shown, but the value of the land at the sale is shown, the jury may infer that the value was given, and so find. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This action was brought by Lowe in the circuit court, on the following deed of covenant, namely:-- "Under the penalty of eighty dollars, we, Alexander M'Donald and Richard M'Donald, bind ourselves, our heirs, &c., unto Samuel Lowe, his heirs, &c., to make or cause to be made a good special warranty deed to thirty acres of land, be the same more or less, it being that part of land lying between William Noels and the said Samuel Lowe's line and Lick creek, it being for value received; as witness our hands this 13th day of July, 1804. RICH'D M'DONALD, (Seal.) ALEX. M'DONALD, (Seal.)" The declaration, after reciting the covenant, alleges, for breach, the failure of the M'Donalds to make a deed according to the covenant, although specially demanded by Lowe to do so, on the    day of     1818. The defendant, Alexander M'Donald, who was sued as surviving obligor, pleaded three pleas; but the first and third are in substance the same, and oblige a performance of the covenant: The second plea denies that Lowe ever demanded a deed, as in his declaration he has alleged. To each plea issues were joined to the country; and on the trial no evidence was introduced conducing to prove a performance of the covenant by either of the M'Donalds; but evidence tending in some measure to prove a demand of a deed by Lowe, was introduced by him; and after he also proved the value of the land at the date of the covenant to be forty dollars, the counsel for the defendant moved the court; and it accordingly instructed the jury, that if they believed from the evidence that Lowe had made no special demand of a deed they ought to find for the defendant; and if the jury believed a special demand had been made, they ought to find nominal damages only. *2 Under these instructions the jury found for the defendant, M'Donald, and judgment was thereon rendered in bar of Lowe's action. This court are unable to perceive the principle on which the court instructed the jury to find but nominal damages if they believed a deed had been demanded by Lowe. On such a demand being made, there can be no question, but the covenant was broken, and for a breach of a covenant to make a deed of special warranty, it was held in the case of Logan against Langford, spring term, 1812, that the actual consideration paid for the land formed the criterion of damages. In this case, it is true, the consideration paid by Lowe for the land, is not proved, but the deed of covenant purports to have been given for a valuable consideration; and from the value which the land is proven to have been of at the date of the covenant, the jury might rationally have presumed the amount of the consideration. On a breach of covenant to convey lands with special warranty, the price given is the criterion of damages; if that is not shewn, but the value of the land at the sale is shewn the jury may infer the value was given and find so. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. B. Hardin for appellant, Haggin for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Lowe v. McDonald 3 A.K.Marsh. 354, 10 Ky. 354, 1821 WL 1091 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 181 END OF DOCUMENT
