(Cite as: 3 Bibb 102,  6 Ky. 102 (Ky.),  1813 WL 617 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lawrence v. Ralston. Jul. 1, 1813. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 398 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k393 Necessity of Demand for Payment and Notice of Nonpayment 56k398 k. Effect of Failure to Make Demand or Give Notice.  Most Cited Cases Damages and interest cannot be recovered when an inland bill is dishonored, unless it is protested, or written notice be given of the dishonor. Bills and Notes 56 k 417 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k411 Sufficiency of Notice of Nonpayment and of Protest 56k417 k. Excuses for Delay. Most Cited  Cases It is no excuse for not transmitting notice of the dishonor of a bill to an indorser that he is absent from home;  personal notice not being necessary. Bills and Notes 56 k 423 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k423 k. New Promise or Waiver After Discharge. Most Cited Cases Where notice of dishonor of a note is not given, a promise by the indorser to pay the note, after he is discharged, and without any consideration, will not sustain an action. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 AARON BURR, the 19th day of December 1806, at Frank fort, Kentucky, drew a bill of exchange on George M Ogden, Esq., merchant at New York, requesting him, at one hundred and twenty days sight, to pay Charles Lynch, Esq., or order, seven hundred dollars, value received, etc. The bill was indorsed by Lynch to Ralston, by Ralston to Sebastian, by Sebastian to Lawrence, the plaintiff. It was protested for non acceptance the 26th of January, 1807, and for non payment on the 29th of May, 1807. Payment being withheld, Lawrence brought an action of assumpsit against Ralston, to recover the amount against him as indorser. The declaration is in the usual form; non assumpsit was pleaded, and issue joined thereupon. On the trial Lawrence produced in evidence the bill of exchange with the several indorsements thereon, together with the protest regularly authenticated. He also proved by a witness that Ralston, after the drawing of the bill, and before it could have been sent to New York and returned, descended the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, and before he returned the bill was protested and put into the hands of the witness in Jefferson county, who in convenient time after Ralston's return to his place of residence in Louisville, Kentucky, informed him he held the bill; that it was protested, and requested to know of him whether he would make payment; that Ralston replied it was a hard case, that he had never received any consideration for indorsing it, but that when he became able he would make payment and take up the bill, and requested the witness to indulge him, which the witness accordingly did. It was also proven the bill, was not indorsed to Lawrence when the conversation aforesaid was had with Ralston. To charge the indorser of a domestic bill of exchange under the statute of Kentucky, with interest and damages, notice in writing must be given him, that the bill has been dishonored. But the want of written notice, does not discharge the indorser, if the holder has proceeded according to the law merchant. If notice of protest is not given in reasonable time, in cases where such notice is required by the law merchant, the indorser is discharged. Personal notice not necessary, and therefore the absence of the indorser from his residence does not excuse a failure to transmit the notice in reasonable time. A promise to pay the bill by an indorser may be an implied admission that he had received due notice of protest, but where it is evident such notice was not given?? a promise by the indorser to pay the bill, after he was discharged, and without any consideration for the assumpsit, will not maintain an action. The Court, on the motion of Ralston, instructed the jury to find a verdict for the defendant: a verdict was accordingly found for him. Lawrence then moved the Court for a new trial, but his motion was overruled, and a judgment awarded on the verdict of the jury; from which judgment this writ of error has been prosecuted. The first question that demands consideration is, whether the Circuit Court decided correctly in instructing the jury to find for the defendant? The decision of the question involves an inquiry into the liability of Ralston as indorser. His liability must be deduced either under the act of 1708 concerning bills of exchange, or under the law before the passage of that act. That Lawrence has not brought his case within the provisions of the act, there can exist no doubt. Notice in writing is an indispensable requisite to be proven, wherever the proceedings are against an indorser under the act: no such notice having been given in this case, the provisions of the act cannot govern it. If, however, Lawrence has done everything necessary to make Ralston liable, according to the rules of law before the passage of the act, he must succeed in his action: for although he has not complied with the provisions of the act, that can only affect his right to recover interest and damages, etc.; but it does not operate as an entire discharge to the assignor. *2 In considering Ralston's liability, independent of the act of 1798, it will be proper to inquire--1. Whether due diligence is proven to have been used by the holder of the bill? And 2. What effect the subsequent promise of Ralston has on the case? Every indorser of a bill impliedly undertakes that it will be accepted upon presentment to the persons upon whom it is drawn, and paid when it becomes due, if presented in proper time for that purpose; and in default of acceptance or payment, he is liable to the indorsee or holder, on due diligence being exercised on his part. But whether the bill be inland or foreign, to make the indorser liable he should have notice of its non-acceptance if it is payable after date or at a certain time after sight, in reasonable time, unless under particular circumstances such notice is made unnecessary: and if notice is not given in such cases where it is necessary, in reasonable and convenient time, the indorser is discharged from his liability. As the giving notice in those cases where it is required is essential to the right against an indorser, it necessarily results proof should be made of its having been given in convenient time. What is reasonable and convenient time, although a question hitherto much controverted, must in a great measure depend on the circumstances attendant on each particular case. If, however, no notice was given Ralston, until the time mentioned by the witness in this case, it is believed no cause can be found where a notice given after such a length of time, and under such circumstances has been adjudged sufficient. Nor can the circumstance of Ralston's absence from his residence afford an apology for the negligence. Personal notice to Ralston was not indispensable; had it been transmitted by post from New York, where acceptance was refused, nothing more could have been required. To have done this, it was not necessary that Ralston should have been at home; and if notice might have been given in the absence of Ralston, it evidently results his absence affords no excuse for the failure. We think, therefore, the failure to give notice to Ralston until the time mentioned in the evidence, discharged him from his liability as indorser, and consequently the plaintiff's action cannot be maintained against him, unless his subsequent promise to pay the bill forms a sufficient cause of action. We think a promise made under such circumstances, not being founded on any valid consideration, induces no legal obligation, and cannot therefore form a sufficient cause of action. It is not, however, denied but that a promise to pay a bill by an indorser, unless accompanied by circumstances repelling the presumption, is an implied admission of due notice having been given. Such an implication, however, cannot arise in the present instance; but from the evidence of the plaintiff, as detailed in his bill of exceptions, the contrary presumption manifestly arises. Admitting, therefore, the existence of every fact which the evidence given in this cause conduced to prove, Ralston is clearly not liable to the plaintiff's action. If we are correct in this position, it becomes unnecessary to inquire whether the Court decided correctly in admitting an inquiry into the consideration of the indorsements: for if the plaintiff showed no cause of action, he has no reason to complain even should the Court have committed an error against him. Besides, it is evident from the record that no prejudice could result to the plaintiff from the inquiry being permitted. *3 Upon the whole, we think the judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1813. Lawrence v. Ralston 3 Bibb 102, 6 Ky. 102, 1813 WL 617 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
