(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 375,  8 Ky. 375 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1419 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Kendal v. James Slaughter. Nov. 27, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERS7 A JUDGMENT OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 76(3) 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(C) Personal Disabilities and Privileges 241k76 Disability Intervening After Accrual of Cause of  Action 241k76(3) k. Coverture. Most Cited  Cases The statute of 1813 does not give three years after the disability is removed to a feme covert, unless she was covert when her right accrued. Adverse Possession 20 k 100(1) 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k99 Possession Under Color of Title 20k100 Constructive Possession in  General 20k100(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Defendant purchased a part of a larger tract of land, which had been surveyed, but not patented. His purchase was not meted at the time, but he entered under the survey.  Held, that patent being issued and his purchase meted, he thereby became possessed, to the extent of his purchase, as of the time of his first entry. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This ejectment was brought against Slaughter, the tenant in possesion, for the purpose of recovering a tract of land, the title whereof is asserted by the appellants under a patent which issued to John May from the state of Virginia in 1785. The action was commenced in March, 1816, by the service of a declaration containing a demise from Kendal only, but at the October term therafter he applied to the court for leave to amend his declaration, by inserting among others, a demise from William May, George May, and Harry Innis, the surviving executors of the last will of John May, dec., but the court, so far as respected William May, refused to permit the amendment, and exceptions having been taken to that refusal, it now becomes necessary for this court to decide, whether the amendment should have been allowed? A declaration in ejectment may be amended by adding demises in favor of new lessors of the plaintiff. But if a patentee vests his lands in his executors for the payment of his de?? ts, no such amendment will be permitted in favor of one named as executor but who has failed to qualify. A man purchasing a part of a larger tract which has been surveyed but not patented (his purchase not being meted) and entering under the survey, is possessed of the whole survey so entered on, unless such possession is restricted by some legal impediment. It might be a question whether, under any circumstances, the name of William May should have been introduced by an amendment to the declaration; but if it should there can be no question, as he is shown to have not only failed but refused, to act as an executor, but that the court decided correctly in not allowing the demise to be laid in his name. *2 The declaration was however amended by adding several additional demises; one from John L. May, and another from Daniel Eppes and Polly his wife, late Polly May, the children and heirs of John May, dec., and the general issue being pleaded by Slaughter, a trial was thereupon had. In the course of the trial, but after the evidence was gone through, that court was asked to instruct the jury that if they believed the evidence, the plaintiff were entitled to a verdict for all the land not actually inclosed by Slaughter twenty years before the commencement of this action, but the court being of opinion that Slaughter's possession was co-extensive with his purchase from Brady, instructed the jury accordingly: And moreover informed the jury, that although Brady had not been conveyed to Slaughter, yet Slaughter's possession should be construed to extend to the whole of his purchase when Brady's patent issued. Assuming as true every fact which the evidence conduced to prove, (and as it was upon that hypothesis instructions were asked by the plaintiffs, surely it should be so considered,) it is impossible to perceive any solid objection to the decision of the court. Without having entered under any specific claim, or claiming title to any precise boundary, Slaughter, most clearly, could not have gained a possession beyond his actual close; but as he is proven to have taken possession under Brady's claim, which before then was abutted by actual survey, unless prevented by something else in the cause, his possession should be circumscribed by the boundaries of that survey. He is proven, it is true, to have purchased 250 acres from Brady, and although he is said to have entered under Brady's claim, the fair inference ought probably to be, that in consequence of that purchase he entered under Brady's claim, but as the 250 acres were not bounded when he entered: In deciding upon the evidence which states that he entered under the claim of Brady, we apprehend he should be construed to have, by that entry, gained the possession to the extent of Brady's survey; and if so, as the 250 acres as now claimed and abutted by the boundary of Brady's deed forms but a part of the survey of Brady, the court can not have erred either in refusing to instruct the jury that Slaughter's possession was twenty years before the commencement of this action, limited by his actual close, or in instructing them that he was, at the date of Brady's patent, which appears to be several years after his entry under him, possessed to the full extent of his purchase from Brady. When the patent issues and his purchase is meted, he is possessed to the extent of his purchase, from the time of the first entry. The evidence having shown a title in John May, and it being proven that he died in 1794, about seven years after Slaughter obtained the possession, leaving John L. May and Polly Eppes infants, and residents of Virginia; and Polly Eppes being moreover shown to be, at the time of trial, a feme covert, the court were applied to for the purpose of obtaininginstructions to the jury, that if they believed the evidence that the statute of limitations did not commence running against the lessors John L. May and Polly Eppes until ten years after their disabilities were removed or their coming to full age; but the court refused to give the instructions as asked. *3 Whether, therefore, the court ought to have given the instructions, is the next question presented for decision. As the lessors, May and Eppes, were infants at the decease of their father, it is perfectly clear, according to the act of the Virginia legislature in force at the separation of that state from this, that they are allowed ten years, after coming at full age, to make their entry upon the land, or to bring their action for its recovery; but, by act of the legislature of this country, passed the 22d January, 1814, (session acts, 1813, page 162,) instead of the ten years allowed by the act of Virginia, infants are required to make their entry or bring their action within three years after coming of age; and as this action was brought after the act of this country went into operation, and both May and Eppes are proven to have arrived at full age more than three years before the action was commenced, the statute of limitations can not in consequence of their infancy have been prevented from running, unless, as is contended by some, the legislature were interdicted, by the compact with Virginia from passing the act of 1814. The act of 1813 (session acts, pa. 162), expounded. Nor can the circumstances of Polly Eppes being a feme covert, prevent the operation of the statute; for, although she was proven to be covert at the trial, there is no evidence of her being so when her father died, and it is, in the latter case, and in the latter case only, that by the act of 1814, three years after becoming discovert is allowed for bringing her action. The act of 1813, pa. 162, does not give three years, after disability removed, to a feme covert, unless she was covert when her right accrued. According to the act of this country, then, a term of seven years less is allowed to infants after coming to full age, to make their entry upon lands, than was permitted under the act of Virginia; so that, in deciding upon the authority of the legislature to pass the act of 1814, the question fairly arises, whether or not, by the compact with Virginia the legislature of this country is inhibited from altering the law of limitations, as to actions for land derived from the laws of that state. The seventh section of the compact provides, that all private rights and interests of lands, within the then district, derived from the laws of Virginia prior to the separation, shall remain valid and secure by the laws of the proposed state, and shall be determined by the laws then existing in the state of Virginia. According to the clear import of this section, in order to ascertain whether those claiming under the laws of Virginia, had at the time of the separation, an interest or right to lands lying within this state, there is no question but that the laws of that state, regardless of any declaratory or explanatory laws, which may be enacted by this country, and those only, should form the rule of decision. The compact with Virginia, 1st Littell, page 18, section 7th, expounded. *4 But whilst the legislative enactments of this country, are by the compact, not permitted to affect the validity of those rights, we are of opinion, that instrument should not be construed so as to preclude the legislature from either regulating the mode of action, or limiting the time, it should be prosecuted, for the purpose of asserting those rights. That the section alluded to, was not understood by the parties to that compact, as inhibiting the legislature from passing laws by which those rights might become forfeited, is, we apprehend, apparent from other parts of that instrument. For it is furthermore, in the latter clause of the eighth section provided, that no neglect of cultivation or improvement of any land, within either the proposed state or that of Virginia, belonging to the non-resident citizens of the other, shall subject such non-resident to forfeiture or other penalty, within the term of six years, &c. Now, as by the then laws of Virginia, lands were not, either for a failure to improve, or cultivate, subject to forfeiture, it is obvious, that the members of the compact must have understood the seventh section as not furnishing any restraint against the legislature imposing such a forfeiture, and that the clause cited from the eighth section was introduced for the purpose of supplying what was not contained in the seventh, and restraining, for the time therein mentioned, the exercise of such an authority. If, then, notwithstanding the compact, laws of forfeiture may be enacted, no reason is perceived why the legislature should not be allowed to regulate the limitation of actions. For although possession may, in process of time, ripen into a perfect right to the land, it does so, under the efficacy of the laws of limitations, operating in the nature of a forfeiture upon the failure of the claimant in not asserting the right in due time. That the legislature is not interdicted from regulating limitations, is moreover further evinced by the decisions of this court, in relation to the laws regulating the making of surveys of land derived from the laws of Virginia. It will be recollected, that at the time of the separation, according to the laws of Virginia, for a failure to appoint agents and attend the making of surveys, the owners of lands were subjected to a forfeiture of their claims. The time thus prescribed, by those laws, for the appointment of agents, &c., it will also be observed was at the first and second sessions of the legislature of this country, after the separation, successively prolonged; and although many entries, which, by the laws of Virginia, for a failure to appoint the agents &c., as required, have become forfeited, yet in consequence of the prolongation of the time by the statutes of this country, surveys have, in many instances been made, and in the various cases, presented for the adjudication of this court, and growing out of surveys thus made under the authority of the laws of this country not the slightest suggestion against the right of the legislature to pass such laws, is to be found. *5 In those cases involving the right to survey, which have heretofore occurred, there is not, it is true, any thing said as to the competency of the legislature of this country to prolong the time of surveying, but as in deciding upon those cases, the right of the legislature to pass the laws, must have been necessarily involved, the silence of the court upon the subject must be considered as a recognition of the authority of the legislature. And if, in extending the time of surveying, the legislature has not exceeded its authority, the principle is not perceived whereby its inability to pass the law of 1814, can be inferred. By the latter act, it is true, the time for bringing action is reduced to a shorter time than was allowed by the laws of Virginia, whereas by the former a longer time is given the owner to make his survey, but as the law has undergone a change in relation to each case, if in a contest with an adverse claim, derived from the laws of Virginia, the laws enacted by the legislature of this country should be regarded as the rule of decision in the former case: so in such a contest, the determination ought, most unquestionably, in the latter case, to be, according to the laws enacted by this country likewise. An additional argument, illustrative of the power of the Legislature, may be moreover drawn from the decision of the supreme court of the United States, in the case of  Walden against Gratz's heirs, 1 Wheaton 292. As Gratz, who was the plaintiff in the court of original jurisdiction in that case, derived title under a deed executed whilst there was an adverse possession of the land, there is no doubt but according to the laws of Virginia, at the separation, he could not have recovered; but as, according to the opinion of that court, the statute of this country, passed in 1798, concerning champerty and maintenance, authorized the bargainee of such a deed to bring suit in his own name, the action of Gratz was sustained. Thus, in the case cited from Wheaton, a striking instance is perceived, of a recovery under the laws of this country, in a case which, if it had been determined by the laws of Virginia at the making of the compact, the action would not have been sustained. In the opinion of the supreme court, therefore, the legislature of this country can not have been restrained by the compact from passing the act of 1798, under which contrary to the laws of Virginia, the title passed to Gratz. And if the legislature were not so restrained, we apprehend, it follows pretty conclusively, that although by the act of 1814, a different determination to what would otherwise have been had, may, in many cases result, the legislature notwithstanding, possessed the power to pass it. For if that act, in its operation, is admitted to affect the right, it can not upon the most extended construction be more effectual than that of 1798, in passing the title to another. Let no distinction be attempted to be drawn between those statutes in consequence of the title passing by the act of the owner in the one case, and not in the other; for although under the act of limitations, no positive act may be necessary to be done by the rightful owner to enable the possessor to gain title, yet by his failure to assert his claim within the time prescribed, he demonstrates an abandonment of his interest, and thereby evinces a willingness for the possessor to obtain, through the efficacy of the law, a title to the land. *6 Upon the whole, we are of the opinion the judgment ment must be affirmed with costs. Wickliffe for appellant. Ky.App. 1818. Kendal v. Slaughter 1 A.K.Marsh. 375, 8 Ky. 375, 1818 WL 1419 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
