(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 623,  10 Ky. 623 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1192 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Benj'n P. Campbell v. Greenberry Roberts et al. Oct. 5, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 16 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k16 k. Prior Possession of Plaintiff. Most Cited Cases Where one in peaceable possession of land is ousted by a bare trespasser, who enters without claim of title, he may recover in ejectment on proof of prior possession, though such possession was not held for the time and in the manner required for a prescriptive title. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment recovered by Roberts, in an action of ejectment, brought by him in the circuit court against Campbell and Porter. On the trial in that court, for the purpose of shewing his title to the land, Roberts introduced, as evidence, the copy of a judgment recovered by him against Porter, in the Christian circuit court, a writ of fieri facias which issued thereon, together with the return of the sheriff, and a deed of conveyance purporting to have been executed by the sheriff to Roberts for the land in contest, in pursuance to a sale of the land made by the sheriff under the writ of fieri facias; and after proving that the defendant, Porter, and William C. Porter, were living on the land at the time of the sale by the sheriff, and the execution of the deed to Roberts, and had continued to live thereon ever since, the appellants, who were defendants in the circuit court, moved the court to instruct the jury to find as in case of a nonsuit; but the court overruled the motion and refused to give the instructions. Whether or not the court decided correctly in refusing the instructions, is the only inquiry to which the attention of this court need be directed in deciding the present contest. In responding to this inquiry it can not be necessary to decide whether or not the evidence, introduced by Roberts, was sufficient to authorize a recovery for the whole of the tract in contest. The court were asked to instruct the jury to find as in case of a non-suit, and if the evidence was of a character from which the jury might presume title to any part of the land, it evidently can not have been incorrect in the court to refuse to give the instructions. And that the jury might, from the evidence, rationally infer title, we apprehend, can admit of no serious doubt. Possession is always evidence of title. It may be explained away by extraneous evidence, but in the absence of all other evidence the fact of a plaintiff in ejectment having been once possessed of the land will be sufficient, prima facie, to authorize a recovery against an intrudor on that possession. Possession is evidence of title against an intruder without title. The possession of Porter would, therefore, be sufficient evidence of title in an action by him against an invader of that possession; and as it would be evidence for him, it must necessarily be evidence for Roberts, who claims under a purchase from the sheriff, at a sale made in virtue of a writ of fieri facias against the estate of Porter. *2 Whether a defendant in execution would be allowed, after a sale, under execution, of lands possessed by him, to question the title in an action brought to recover the possession, by the purchaser, need not now be decided. The present case presents the simply inquiry, whether in an action by the purchaser, under an execution, the fact of the defendant, in the execution, being possessed of the land sold, is evidence from which the jury may presume title: And in such a case, we have no hesitation in affirming that it is. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Hardin, for appellant; Crittenden & Sharp, for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Campbell v. Roberts 3 A.K.Marsh. 623, 10 Ky. 623, 1821 WL 1192 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
