(Cite as: 4 Bibb 83,  7 Ky. 83 (Ky.),  1815 WL 670 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. King v. Beeler. Jun. 1, 1815. *1 In suit for devastavit, it is not necessary to name the defendant as administrator, but declaring against him as administrator is but description of the person, and does not vitiate. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 444(2) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k444 Allegation and Denial of Representative Capacity 162k444(2) k. Requisites and Sufficiency in General.  Most Cited Cases In a suit for a devastavit, it is not necessary to style the defendant as administrator, but declaring against him as administrator is but description personae, and does not vitiate. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. KING having obtained a judgment against John C. Beeler, the defendant, as administrator of Charles Beeler, deceased, and having been unable to collect the same under a writ of fieri facias regularly issued thereon, brought this suit in the Jefferson Circuit Court, suggesting a devastavit, for the pupose of subjecting the defendant to the payment of the former judgment in his individual right. The defendant, although regularly served with the writ failed to plead to the action; and a writ of inquiry having been awarded and executed, judgment was accordingly entered in favor of the plaintiff. Errors were then filed in arrest of judgment, and the Court being of opinion the proceedings were irregular, arrested the judgment. To reverse this judgment the plaintiff has prosecuted this writ of error; and has assigned for error, that the judgment upon the verdict of the jury should not have been arrested. The ground upon which it is supposed the Court below arrested the judgment, is because the defendant in the original writ is named (and so described in the commencement of the declaration) John C. Beeler, administrator of Charles Beeler, deceased; and when too the cause of action is laid to subject him in his individual right. It was certainly not necessary that Beeler, the defendant, should have been described as the plaintiff has thought proper to name him, but it is evident his having been so described can furnish no grounds for arresting the judgment: for as the cause of action is laid to subject the defendant in his individual right, according to the doctrine of the common law, and recognized by this CourtFN(a), the naming of the defendant administrator, when he is not alleged to be sued as such, is but a description of the person; and whether that description be true or false, it cannot form the grounds of arresting the judgment. FN(a). See  Spurgen v. Robinet, 7 Ky. 75 -- Davis v. Mead, vol. 2, 397 The judgment of the Court below must, therefore, be reversed with costs; the cause remanded to the Court below, and judgment there entered in favor of the plaintiff, according to the inquest of the jury. Ky.App. 1815. King v. Beeler 4 Bibb 83, 7 Ky. 83, 1815 WL 670 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
