(Cite as: 4 Litt. 242,  14 Ky. 242 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1266 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Nave v. Fletcher. Oct. 22, 1823. *1 FROM THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. WILLIAM L. KELLY SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Accord and Satisfaction 8 k 13 8 Accord and Satisfaction 8k13 k. Conveyance or Surrender of Property, Rights, or Claims. Most Cited Cases A plea of accord and satisfaction that defendant delivered to plaintiff in payment of his demand, certain bonds and accounts against third parties, is insufficient if it fails to show that the bonds were duly assigned, so as to permit plaintiff to sue on them in his own name, or that the bonds and accounts were accepted in satisfaction. SHARP for plaintiff; BARRY for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action of debt, brought in the circuit court by Nave, upon a promissory note for the payment of $314.37 1/2, executed by Fletcher the 14th January, 1819. Judgment overruling a motion for a new trial, reversed. A plea of accord and satisfaction adjudged insufficient. A plea of accord and satisfaction, alleging that the defendant gave to the plaintiff bonds, accounts and orders on different individuals, etc., which were received by the plaintiff in satisfaction of the debt, is insufficient. 1. Because it does not allege that the bonds were assigned, and if they were not, the plaintiff could not maintain an action in his own name on them: 2. Because part of it was composed of accounts, etc., on these, if they were assigned, the plaintiff could not maintain an action in his own name. In such plea, it is not sufficient that the satisfaction be in part good; it must be completely and entirely so. Issue joined on a plea as above, held immaterial. It seems, that where such matter is alleged as a satisfaction, the plea ought to show that the plaintiff had acquired a cause of action in his own name, against other persons or person, for the whole demand. To the action Fletcher pleaded, that in pursuance of an accord made between him and Nave, he gave Nave bonds, accounts and orders, on different individuals of the county of Jessamine, to a greater amount than the debt in the declaration mentioned, which were, by Nave, received in satisfaction of the debt mentioned, &c. To this plea, Nave replied generally, and issue was thereupon joined. A jury was empannelled, a verdict found for Fletcher, and after Nave's motion for a new trial was overruled, judgment was rendered by the court, in conformity with the verdict. We are of opinion, that a new trial ought to have been awarded. The motion was made on the ground of the verdict being contrary to evidence; and after the most careful examination of the evidence contained in the record, we are utterly incapable of perceiving any, which, according to any rational and fair inference, can have warranted the jury in finding a verdict against Nave. There is testimony going to prove, that accounts, &c., were put into the hands of an officer by Fletcher, to be collected for the benefit of Nave; but there is not a tittle of proof, conducing to prove that those demands were accepted by Nave, in satisfaction of his demand. *2 But, as the cause must be remanded, it is proper to remark, that the plea of Fletcher, is, in our conception, totally insufficient to bar the action of Nave, and that the issue made up by the parties is immaterial. The satisfaction alleged by the plea to have been received by Nave, we apprehend, is insufficient to constitute a valid plea. As the note upon which this issue is founded was executed since the act of 1811 (1 Dig. 264), it possesses all the force and effect of a writing under seal; and it has been held, that to an action of debt on a bond, the receipt of another bond can not be pleaded in bar, unless the security or circumstances are bettered, as by shortening the time of payment. And again, it is said that the bettering the security alone, is not sufficient; for though a bond with sureties is better than a single bond, yet the former can not be pleaded in bar to the latter. Cr. Eli. 727; 1 Esp. N. Am. Ed. 2d part 67. But were it admitted, that any thing may be a sufficient satisfaction which in itself is the foundation of an action, as in more recent times seems to have been thought by some, still the plea of Fletcher could not be sustained; for although, considered in the light of bills of exchange, the orders might form the basis of an action, it is perfectly clear that the accounts alluded to in the plea do not; nor could an action be maintained in the name of Nave, upon the bonds, without an assignment, and no assignment of them is alleged in the plea; and to be a valid bar, it is not enough that the satisfaction be in part good, but it must be entirely and completely so. Thus it has been held, that payment of part before the bond became due, and a promise to pay the residue at a day to come, though agreed to by the obligee, was no sufficient satisfaction, and constituted no bar to an action on the bond. Cr. Eli. 304. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and the plea and subsequent proceedings set aside, and judgment entered in favor of Nave for his debt, &c., unless Fletcher should file a valid plea in bar, after being allowed reasonable time by the court to do so. Ky.App. 1823. Nave v. Fletcher 4 Litt. 242, 14 Ky. 242, 1823 WL 1266 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
