(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 368,  8 Ky. 368 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1415 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Halbert v. Skyles. Nov. 26, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BULLITT CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 30 157 Evidence 157I Judicial Notice 157k27 Laws of the State 157k30 k. Private Statutes. Most Cited Cases Courts take judicial notice of a private act of the legislature. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an appeal from a judgment rendered in favor of Skyles, upon a demurrer to evidence in an action of ejectment, brought by her to recover a lot of ground in the town of Shepherdsville. In deducing title, she introduced a deed, purporting to have been given by commissioners appointed by a decree of a court of chancery; but as the commissioners appear to have been appointed at the time of pronouncing the decree, it is contended their deed can not have passed the title. Although the defendant in chancery appears to have made defense to the suit, it would certainly have been irregular, without having given him an opportunity to perform the decree, to direct the commissioners at the time of making it, to convey the land, but as by the order appointing the commissioners, a day is given the defendant to comply with the decree, before they are authorized to act, no reason is perceived against the propriety of making the appointment when the decree was pronounced. Although a defendant in chancery may have defended the suit, it is not irregular to appoint commissioners to convey at the time of rendering the decree, provided a day is given to the defendant to perform the decree. The plaintiff in the court below having shown a regular chain of title up to Michael Troutman, Frederick Pennebaker, Benjamin Stansbury and John Essery, but without introducing any evidence of the title being in them at the time of their conveyance, it is contended, that although their deed purports to have been signed by them as trustees of the town, judgment should have been rendered in favor of the defendant in that court, upon the demurrer to the evidence. To have authorized the judgment in favor of Skyles, the title should, no doubt, have appeared to be in those persons signing their names as trustees when the deed was executed, but as a majority of those persons appear, from the act establishing Shepherdsville, to have been appointed trustees of that town, it follows, that if the act should have been noticed by the court without being specially introduced in evidence, the judgment was regularly entered in favor of the title being in Skyles. Considering the act establishing the town as of a private and not of a public character, there is no doubt, according to the English law, where private statutes are not promulgated with the same notoriety as those of a public character, but that it should have been specially pleaded. Private acts of assembly are to be noticed by the court without pleading them. But in this country where the same ceremony is observed in promulgating both species of laws, and especially as by an act of the legislature of this state, private acts are not now required to be specially pleaded, we apprehend the court was bound to take notice of the act establishing Shepherdsville. *2 The judgment must therefore be affirmed with cost. Ky.App. 1818. Halbert v. Skyles 1 A.K.Marsh. 368, 8 Ky. 368, 1818 WL 1415 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
