(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 172,  21 Ky. 172 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1526 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Snelling v. Boyd. Jun. 15, 1827. *1 Assignments. Bills of Exchange. Conveyance Bonds. Parties. ERROR TO THE BATH CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Assignments 38 k 129 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k129 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases In a suit for specific performance of a contract, by an assignee claiming through an assignment which passes the legal right, the assignor need not be made a party;  but where assignments were made to different persons, and at different times, by two joint assignees of a bond, their legal interest does not pass, and they must be made parties to a suit against the obligor. Assignments 38 k 129 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k129 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases Where securities are assigned which are made assignable by statute the assignor need not be made a party to an action by the assignee. Bills and Notes 56 k 196 56 Bills and Notes 56VII Transfer 56VII(A) By Indorsement 56k194 Operation and Effect as to Title 56k196 k. Joint or Several Parties. Most Cited  Cases One of several joint holders of a bill may transfer the whole interest therein by his indorsement. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Case stated. The writ of error is brought to reverse a decree pronounced by the circuit court, causing a conveyance to be made to the Boyds for a tract of land which Snelling covenanted to convey Elijah Perry. The covenant bears date the nineteenth day of December, 1807; and was assigned by E. Perry to William Snelling, on the 17th of August, 1813; by William Snelling was assigned to Holeman Rice, senior and William P. Snelling, on the sixth of February, 1823, and on the 8th of March, 1822; was assigned by Holeman Rice to Spencer Boyd; and on the 9th of January, 1823, was assigned by William Snelling to William Boyd. Covenant and assignments. The suit was brought in the circuit court, in the name of the latter assignees, Spencer and William Boyd, without making any of the assignors of the covenant parties; and one objection, which was taken in argument, is, that the assignors should have been made parties and brought before the court, before a decree was pronounced on the merits of the contest. Objection for want of parties. With respect to the assignor, Perry, by whom the covenant was assigned to William Snelling, and the assignor, William Snelling, by whom it was assigned to Holeman Rice, and William P. Snelling, there was evidently no necessity for making them parties. By each of those assignments, the legal right was transferred to the respective assignees, and it has been repeatedly decided that in a suit for the specific execution of a contract by an assignee claiming through an assignment which passes the legal right, the assignor need not be a party. *2 Assignors of a covenant for land, are not necessary parties to a bill by assignee against obligor for a conveyance. But with respect to William P. Snelling and Holeman Rice, by whom the covenant was assigned to the Boyds, a different rule applies. The legal right to which they became entitled by the assignment to them, has not, we apprehend, passed from them by their after assignment. Their interest in the land, and right to sue upon the covenant was joint, and neither, by his assignment, could pass away the right and interest of the other. It is not designed to say that there are no writings which may not be assigned by one of several persons, holding a joint interest so as to pass the legal right of action to the assignee. By the law merchant, bills of exchange may, we know, be transferred by the endorsement of one of several joint payees, and the endorsee will be entitled to sue in his own name. One of several joint holders of a bill of exchange may transfer the whole interest by his endorsement. But writings stipulating for the conveyance of land, are not by any law, placed upon the footing of bills of exchange, and are not, as respects assignments governed by the law merchant. The assignment of such writings must be governed by the act of assembly upon that subject, and it is intended to say that according to the act, no legal right of action can pass to the assignee, unless the assign ment be made by all having a joint interest in the land covenanted to be conveyed. Not so of covenants for the conveyance of lands made assignable by the statute. If, therefore, the assignment of all having right is necessary to pass the legal right of action, it follows that the assignments by Rice and Snelling can not be sufficient for that purpose. Those assignments were made to different persons, and at different times. The assignment of each was no doubt sufficient to pass the equitable interest of the assignor to his assignee, but as the concurrence of both was necessary to transfer the legal right of action, the assignment of neither was sufficient for that purpose. Nor can the legal right have been transferred by both assignments. The assignment which was first made by Rice to Spencer Boyd, did not pass the legal right, because it was not concurred in by Snelling; and the assignment afterwards made by Snelling to William Boyd, passed no legal right, because it was made by him only. After the assignment by Rice, the legal right of action still remained with him and Snelling, and must have continued with them after the assignment, subsequently made by Snelling. Assignments of two joint assignees of a conveyance bond, by one to one assignee, and by the other to another, does not pass to their assignees the legal interest in the bond, and therefore, these assignors must be parties to a bill against the obligor for the title. The assignments to the Boyds, having therefore passed nothing but an equity, Rice and Snelling, by whom the assignments were made, ought, according to repeated decisions, to have been made parties to the suit. *3 The decree must consequently be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and unless the complainants after being allowed sufficient time to do so, make their assignors, Rice and Snelling, parties, and bring them before the court, the bill must be dismissed; but if they are brought before the court, then such further proceedings, orders and decrees be made, as may comport with the usages of chancery and the equity of the case. Mandate for leave to complainants to make the proper parties. Triplett, for plaintiff; Mayes and Monroe, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Snelling v. Boyd 5 T.B.Mon. 172, 21 Ky. 172, 1827 WL 1526 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
