(Cite as: 4 Litt. 240,  14 Ky. 240 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1265 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Martin v. M'Fadin. Oct. 22, 1823. *1 FROM THE WARREN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 116(7) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185VIII Requisites and Sufficiency of Writing 185k114 Signature of Memorandum 185k116 By Agent 185k116(7) k. Memorandum by Auctioneer. Most Cited  Cases No memorandum of sale, made by an auctioneer, will authorize a recovery, unless signed by the purchaser or some one authorized to do it for him. Appeal and Error 30 k 680(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(M) Questions Presented for Review 30k678 Pleading 30k680 Demurrers 30k680(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a judgment purported to have been rendered after deciding on a demurrer to a replication to a special plea, but the clerk certified that neither plea, replication, nor demurrer, had been filed, the court of appeals must decide the case on the sufficiency of the declaration. MONROE and BARRY for plaintiff; SHARP for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This is a writ of error brought to a judgment rendered in bar of an action of assumpsit, brought in the court below by Martin against M'Fadin. From the record, it appears that the judgment was rendered by the court after deciding on a demurrer which was put in by M'Fadin to the replication of Martin to his special plea; but the clerk certifies, that neither the demurrer, replication or plea was filed, and neither of them are contained in the record. The judgment purported to have been rendered after deciding on a demurrer to a replication to a special plea; but the clerk certified that neither plea, replication nor demurrer had been filed: Held, that the court of appeals must decide the case on the sufficiency of the declaration. Whatever may, therefore, have been the question made by the pleadings and decided by the court below, it is obvious that in revising the judgment, this court must be confined to the question, whether or not the matter set out in the declaration, imports a sufficient cause of action; for as the record contains no plea in defence of the matter alleged, the judgment in bar of the action, can not be sustained, if the declaration contains a good cause of action. It was suggested at the bar, that the judgment was given by the court below, upon the ground that the assumpsit alleged in the declaration, comes within the statute against frauds and perjuries, and from the suggestions contained in the record, it is probable that the pleadings involved a question of that sort. But judging from the declaration itself, that question is not presented in a form to be now decided. Although the promise contained in the declaration, appears to have grown out of a contract for the sale of land, there is no suggestion in the declaration, of the promise not having been reduced to writing, and without such a suggestion, no question as to the application of the statute can arise, in deciding on the sufficiency of the declaration; for it has long since been decided, and is now the settled doctrine of the law, that the statute against frauds and perjuries, has produced no change in the manner of declaring in actions at law. The only alteration produced by the statute, consists in the description of evidence necessary to be produced by the plaintiff in support of the assumpsit charged in the declaration. If the declaration would have been good at common law, it will be sustained, notwithstanding the statute. *2 The statute of frauds has made no alteration as to the mode of declaring in suits at law. A sale by an auctioneer, of a town lot, is within the statute against frauds and perjuries, and no memorandum made by the auctioneer, will authorize a recovery, unless it was signed by the purchaser or some one authorized to do it for him. It follows, therefore, that the statute against frauds and perjuries, presents no bar to the cause of action, as exhibited in the declaration; and as no other objection to the declaration was taken in argument, and none other is perceived, the judgment of the court below must be reversed. But as the cause must be remanded for further proceedings, it may be proper to observe, that should it turn out in evidence, or be made appear by an appropriate plea, that neither the promise alleged in the declaration, nor any memorandum or note thereof, shall have been given in writing signed by M'Fadin, or some other person by him thereunto lawfully authorized, though made for the sale at auction of a town lot, under the statute against frauds and perjuries, Martin can not be entitled to recover. Nor will the case be altered, even should it appear that at the time of sale, the auctioneer set down in a book kept for that purpose, the price for which the lot sold and the time of payment, unless the memorandum be signed by M'Fadin, or some person possessing competent authority from him, as was held by this court in the case of Thomas' executrix v. the Trustees of Harrodsburg, 3 Marsh. 298. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Martin v. McFadin 4 Litt. 240, 14 Ky. 240, 1823 WL 1265 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
