(Cite as: 4 Bibb 450,  7 Ky. 450 (Ky.),  1816 WL 820 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Owings v. Ulery. 1816. *1 An authenticated copy of a will proved and admitted to record in Maryland, agreeably to the laws of that State, and admitted to record in this State--a copy from such record is admissible evidence. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 347 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k346 Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of Other  States 157k347 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases It was held that a copy of a grant, taken from the records in Virginia, and deposited in the register's office, in Kentucky, according to the statute respecting Kentucky records, was admissible in evidence. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. A REGULARLY authenticated copy of the last will and testament of John C. Owings, deceased, having been produced from the records of the Orphan's Court in Baltimore, State of Maryland, and having been proven according to the requisitions of the act of the legislature of this country upon that subject, and admitted to record in the County Court of Bourbon; Owings, the present plaintiff, for the purpose of proving a fact deemed material on the trial of this cause in the Court below, offered as evidence a copy of these proceedings from the records of the County Court of Bourbon; but because the copy offered as evidence appeared to be a copy of the copy of the will of John C. Owings, recorded in the County Court of Bourbon, that Court refused to permit it to go in evidence to the jury; and the only question for this Court to determine is, should the copy have been used? We are of opinion it should. The will of John C. Owings having been proven according to the law of Maryland, and admitted to record in the Orphans' Court in Baltimore, it was strictly proper in the County Court of Bourbon, after taking, as they appear to have done in this case, the necessary proof, to admit to record the authenticated copy; FN(a) and when that was done it became a record of the County Court, and as in all other cases of records a copy is legitimate evidence. FN(a).  1 Littell. 614. The evidence offered, therefore, as it is properly the copy of a record, should have been admitted by the Court; but as that was not done, the judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and a new trial had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1816. Owings v. Ulery 4 Bibb 450, 7 Ky. 450, 1816 WL 820 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
