(Cite as: Litt.Sel.Cas. 213,  16 Ky. 213 (Ky.),  1816 WL 848 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Barbour and Wife v. Craig, &c. Apr. 8, 1816. *1 FROM THE GENERAL COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 438(6) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k438 Parties 162k438(6) k. Recovery and Protection of Property of Estate  in General. Most Cited Cases The administrator of a deceased vendor of land ought to be a party to the suit for the recovery of the purchase money;  but where the suit was brought by one of the heirs it was held that a decree for his share of the purchase money should not be reversed because the amount decreed was not so great as it should have been in a suit brought for specific execution of the contract. Principal and Agent 308 k 175(2) 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(D) Ratification 308k175 Operation and Effect 308k175(2) k. Agent's Contracts. Most Cited  Cases A subsequent confirmation of a sale of land, made by an agent, binds the principal, although he is no party to the contract. Appeal and Error 30 k 1171(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVII Determination and Disposition of Cause 30XVII(D) Reversal 30k1171 Amount or Extent of Recovery 30k1171(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where the heir of a deceased vendor sues to recover the purchase price, a decree for his share thereof will not be reversed because the amount decreed was not as great as it would have been in a suit for specific execution of the contract. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was a suit in chancery, brought by the appellants, in the court below, for the purpose of compelling a partition of a ten thousand acre tract of land, entered in the name of Benjamin Johnson, deceased, and to obtain a conveyance for the one-sixth part thereof, which is claimed by them in right of Mrs. Barbour, as one of the heirs of the said deceased Benjamin. Upon a hearing, that court, being of opinion Benjamin Johnson, by his agent, Robert Johnson, had, in his lifetime, disposed of the land to the appellee, Lewis Craig, refused to compel a partition of the land, but gave a decree ordering Craig to pay the appellants what was supposed to be Mrs. Barbour's proportion of the purchase money; and from that decree they have appealed to this court. A sale of land by an agent will bind the principal, although no party to the contract, if it shall appear that he afterwards acquiesced in the sale. , A decree for the payment of money can not be reversed in in the court of appeals, at the instance of the complainant, on account of a less sum having been decreed than he was entitled to, if it shall appear that for want of proper parties a decree of that kind ought not to have been made. We think it perfectly clear the appellants have not shown themselves entitled to a decree for the land. There can be no question, but that Robert Johnson sold to Craig the entire interest in the ten thousand acre entry; and although Benjamin Johnson was no party to the contract, the proof incontestably shows a subsequent acquiscence and confirmation by him. *2 That this sale should repel the appellants' right to a decree for the land, is equally clear; for although Craig appears not to have paid all the purchase money, yet as by the contract with Johnson, he was only to pay by the acre for so much as the ten thousand acre entry ought to hold against adverse claims; and as the validity of the entry also appears to have been contested by a suit of considerable duration, and which in fact was not ultimately determined, but a short time before the commencement of the present suit; the failure to pay the full price, under these circumstances, ought not, in a court of equity, to preclude Craig from resisting the appellant's claim, derived through the intestate, Benjamin Johnson. With respect to the amount Craig should pay, we do not suppose it necessary or proper, in the present case, to enquire; for as the bill is not framed with an aspect to a specific execution of the contract of sale, it might be a question, whether, under any circumstances, a decree to that effect ought to be made; but as, by the death of Johnson, the right to recover the purchase money accrued, strictly speaking, to his administrator, and not to his heir, in a suit for the money, it is plain the administrator ought to be a party. As, therefore, the administrator of Benjamin Johnson is not a party in this cause, and the bill does not appear to have been framed for the purpose of enforcing an execution of the contract of sale to Craig, the court, upon no principle, can so consider it; and consequently, the appellants have no cause to complain of the decree, on account of the amount not being so great as it ought to have been in a suit brought for the specific execution of the contract. The decree can not, at the instance of the appellants, therefore, be set aside. It must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Barbour v. Craig Litt.Sel.Cas. 213, 16 Ky. 213, 1816 WL 848 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
