(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 43,  9 Ky. 43 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1148 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Patrick v. Matthew Conrad et al. Oct. 18, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 194(1) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k194 Grounds for Demurrer to Plea or Answer, or to Defense Therein 302k194(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where no affidavit of the verity of a plea denying the consideration of a bond is annexed to the plea, advantage must be taken by objecting to filing it, and not by demurrer. Pleading 302 k 291(2) 302 Pleading 302VIII Verification 302k289 Necessity for Verification and Effect of Omission 302k291 Actions or Pleadings Based on Written  Instruments 302k291(2) k. Genuineness, Execution, or Signature. Most  Cited Cases A plea denying the consideration of a bond must be verified. Bonds 58 k 123 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k123 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k125) Advantage should be taken of the want of an affidvit to a plea impeaching the consideration of a bond, by objecting to the filing of it, and not by demurrer. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent, Judge Rowan. To an action brought by the defendants in error, against Patrick, upon an obligation given by him to them, Patrick presented and filed the following plea:-- The defendant comes and defends the wrong, &c., and craves oyer of the writing obligatory, &c, and says, that the said writing was executed by him, the defendant, to the plaintiffs, to secure the amount which, upon a settlement of accounts between them, was ascertained to be due the said plaintiffs, but the balance was produced against the defendant by mistake, and avers, that in fact, as he has since discovered, upon accurate settlement of their accounts, nothing is due and owing by the defendant to the plaintiff, &c. To this plea, the plaintiffs in the circuit court, (the defendants here) filed a demurrer, which, having been joined, judgment was rendered sustaining the demurrer. Patrick then presented two other plea, which were not permitted to be filed, and final judgment rendered against him for the debt in the obligation mentioned, with interest and cost. With respect to the two last plea offered by Patrick, we are of opinion the court decided correctly in not allowing them to be filed. The one which denies the obligation to have been given on any consideration, should, most clearly, have been verified by affidavit--and the other, if not necessary to be verified by oath, as we suppose it substantially defective, was properly rejected by the court. But with respect to the plea to which the plaintiffs in that court demurred, the principle is not perceived, upon which it could have been held invalid. A plea denying or impeaching the consideration of a bond, should be verified by oath; but if no affidavit of its verity is annexed to the plea, advantage should be taken by objecting to the filing it; not by demurrer. *2 Assuming its allegations true, (and upon a demurrer they must be so considered), the consideration upon which the obligation was given, is shewn, beyond all questions, to have totally failed, and under the law authorizing a defendant, by special plea, to go into and impeach the consideration of sealed writings, such a failure, unquestionably, must be considered as furnishing a valid bar. To authorize the filing of such a plea, its truth should, no doubt, be verified by the defendant's oath; but for a failure in that respect, objections should be made to the filing of the plea, and not by a demurrer. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin, for plaintiff; Bibb, for defendants in error. Ky.App. 1819. Patrick v. Conrad 2 A.K.Marsh. 43, 9 Ky. 43, 1819 WL 1148 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
