(Cite as: 3 Bibb 484,  6 Ky. 484 (Ky.),  1814 WL 838 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Read v. the Commonwealth. Oct. 24, 1814. West Headnotes Highways 200 k 96(1) 200 Highways 200VI Highway Districts and Officers 200k96 Duties and Liabilities 200k96(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases In a presentment against a surveyor of a road for not keeping it in repair, it is sufficient to charge that the road had been "out of repair for three months then last past." Highways 200 k 96(1) 200 Highways 200VI Highway Districts and Officers 200k96 Duties and Liabilities 200k96(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases On the trial of a presentment against a road surveyor for delinquency, the right of the court to appoint him cannot be questioned. Highways 200 k 96(2) 200 Highways 200VI Highway Districts and Officers 200k96 Duties and Liabilities 200k96(2) k. Liabilities for Penalties. Most Cited  Cases A road surveyor cannot be fined for delinquency unless he has been furnished with the boundary, including the hands whom he has a right to call on. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment of the Nelson Circuit Court awarded against the plaintiff in error on a presentment for not keeping a road in repair of which he was surveyor. Crimes of commission, time must be alleged, but not for omission. In a presentment against a surveyor of a road for not keeping it in repair, to charge that the road had been "out of repair for 3 months then last past," is sufficient. The right of the Court to appoint a particular description of persons surveyors, cannot be questioned on the trial against the surveyor for delinquency. He cannot be fined without being furnished with the boundary including the hands he has a right to call on. It is objected that the presentment is defective in not stating with sufficient precision an offense either of omission or commission. This objection must have been taken on the supposition that in presentment of this description it is necessary to charge specially what day the road was permitted to be out of repair. It will not be denied but that according to the settled rules of the common law the day should be specially alleged in presentments of crimes of commission; but a distinction seems to exist in the presentment of crimes of commission and those of omission; and although a precise specification as to time is necessary in the former case, it has been held not to be required in the latter--2 Haw. P. C. ch. 25, s 79--3 Gwil. Bac. Abr. 562. If it be said the rule of the common law in this respect is changed by the statute requiring the jury in making presentments to specify the time when the crime was committed, it is answered that statute in its literal acceptation applies to crimes committed; but if it should be considered to apply to cases like the present, the presentment in question by alleging the road to have been out of repair for three months then last past, forms a literal correspondence with the statute. It is likewise objected the Circuit Court erred in imposing a fine on the plaintiff in error, because it is urged the County Court had no right to appoint the plaintiff surveyor of the road, when it appears he had at the time he was appointed, two male laboring slaves over the age of 16 years. Waiving the inquiry whether a person having two slaves over the age of 16 years, can regularly be appointed a surveyor of a road, the objection cannot be admitted to prevail: for as the County Courts have the exclusive jurisdiction in relation to roads, their orders in appointing surveyors cannot be thus collaterally brought in question on the trial of a presentment for a delinquency in the surveyor. It is finally objected the Court erred on the merits of the case in adjudging upon the whole evidence that a fine should be imposed on the plaintiff. This objection is entitled to more weight. It appears the surveyor had never been furnished with a description of the boundary including the hands, or anything by which he could ascertain upon whom to call to cause the road to be put in repair. Without some information of this kind being given to the surveyor, it would not only be a violation of the rules of law, but repugnant to the plainest dictates of natural justice, that he should be subjected to a fine.-- Judgment reversed. Ky.App. 1814. Read v. Commonwealth 3 Bibb 484, 6 Ky. 484, 1814 WL 838 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
