(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 68,  10 Ky. 68 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1160 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Joseph Woolfolk v. John Overton. Dec. 1, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE HARDIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 278 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k277 Possession 161k278 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The assent of the execution debtor that the purchaser at the sheriff's sale should take immediate possession of the land sold may be inferred from his presence at the sale and acquiescence. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment of restitution, rendered in favor of Overton, in a proceeding had by him under the law regulating forcible entries and detainers. The only question presented for the decision of this court, grows out of instructions given by the circuit court, on the trial of the issue taken on the traverse to the inquest of the jury. It appears, that whilst Overton and a certain Fishback jointly occupied the mill and land in contest, the sheriff, in virtue of an execution against the estate of Overton, exposed to public sale his interest in the mill land, and Woolfolk became the purchaser; that before ?? Woolfolk made the purchase, he was requested by Overton, who was then present on the land, to bid; that after the sale was made, the sheriff as informed by Fishback, that he ought to deliver possession to Woolfolk, and the sheriff, in the presence of Overton, replied he would do so, and accordingly, in company with Overton, Fishback and Woolfolk, proceeded towards the mill for that purpose; but before they arrived at the mill, Overton stopped, and the rest of the company continued on to the mill; that the sheriff then delivered the possession of Overton's interest to Woolfolk, and since then the mill has continued in the joint possession of Fishback and Woolfolk, or that of Woolfolk's son holding under him. It does not appear that Overton gave any express assent for the possession to be delivered by the sheriff to Woolfolk, nor does it appear that he expressed any objection or unwillingness thereto. After these facts were proven, and the executions under which the sale was made, together with the sheriff's return thereon, accompanied with the records of the judgments upon which they issued, were produced and read to the jury, the court, on the motion of Overton's counsel, instructed the jury, that upon the whole evidence the law was for Overton, and if they believed the evidence, they ought to find for him. Assuming the existence of every fact which the evidence in anywise conduces to prove, we can not accord with that court in its instructions to the jury. It is not supposed that the sheriff, in virtue of the executions, derived any authority to deliver the possession to Woolfolk. Those executions no doubt, conferred upon him ample power to sell and convey any legal interest which Overton held in the land, but when the sale and conveyance was accomplished, the authority of the sheriff terminated; and to obtain the possession, Woolfolk, the purchaser, should resort to those means and those means only, which are furnished by law to others having the right of possession to land, which may be in the occupancy of another. *2 A sheriff selling lands under execution, possesses no power to give the possession--to sell and convey are all he can do. Thus considering the right acquired by Woolfolk under the sale, it would certainly have been inadmissible for either him or the sheriff, to have entered and taken the possession of the mill, without the assent or against the will of Overton, whilst he was thereof possessed in fact; and if the evidence could be construed to prove such an entry, and taking of possession, under the law regulating proceedings in cases of forcible entries, the instructions of the court might upon the supposition of its having been hypothecated upon the existence of those facts which the evidence conduce to prove, be sustained. But we apprehend the jury might have fairly inferred from the evidence the assent of Overton to the possession which was delieverd by the sheriff to Woolfolk. It is true, no express assent was proven; but from the circumstance of Overton's being present, encouraging Woolfolk to bid for the land, and making no objections to the possession which he knew was about to be delivered, taken in connection with the circumstance of his having set out with the sheriff, and proceeded part of the way to the mill, when possession was about to be delivered, demonstrate, as satisfactorily as it is possible for conduct to do, that Overton not only assented to, but was perfectly willing for Woolfolk to take and enjoy the possession of the mill. After thus manifesting his assent and willingness to Woolfolk's entry and possession, Overton can not, we apprehend, be entitled to restitution under the law regulating forcible entries; for an entry can not be denominated forcible, when it is taken by the assent of the person in possession; and it can not be important whether the assent be expressly given, or implied from the conduct of the person on whose possession the entry is made. But if the defendant in execution assents to the purchaser taking the possession of the land, and the purchaser does so, it is a waiver of ulterior measures on the part of the purchaser, and this assent may be inferred from the actions as well as the words of the defendant in execution. It results, therefore, that the court erred in its instructions to the jury, and consequently the judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin, for appellant; Wickliffe, for appellee. See Same case,  3 Litt. 21. Ky.App. 1820. Woodfolk v. Overton 3 A.K.Marsh. 68, 10 Ky. 68, 1820 WL 1160 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 134 END OF DOCUMENT
