(Cite as: 3 Bibb 374,  6 Ky. 374 (Ky.),  1814 WL 797 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Watts v. Horsley. Jul. 8, 1814. West Headnotes Ferries 172 k 14 172 Ferries 172I Establishment and Maintenance 172k9 Franchises and Privileges 172k14 k. Proceedings to Acquire. Most Cited  Cases The deed of a person objecting to the establishment of a ferry within one mile of his ferry is not admissible to prove the distance between the two ferries, the applicant not being a party to the deed. Ferries 172 k 14 172 Ferries 172I Establishment and Maintenance 172k9 Franchises and Privileges 172k14 k. Proceedings to Acquire. Most Cited  Cases Where a person objects to the establishment of a ferry across the Ohio, on the ground that there is a ferry within less than a mile, the burden of proof is on the person objecting, to prove the fact. Evidence 157 k 353(3) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(C) Private Writings and Publications 157k353 Conveyances, Contracts, and Other Instruments 157k353(3) k. Recitals of Fact in General. Most Cited  Cases Where a person objects to a ferry, the deed of the person objecting is not admissible evidence in his favor to show the distance between the ferry in question and a former ferry. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 HORSLEY having obtained permission by an order of the Boone County Court to keep a ferry across the Ohio river, Watts at the same term of the Court appeared and moved the Court to reconsider the order establishing the ferry; his motion was overruled and exceptions taken to the opinion of the Court, and the evidence made a part of the record. To reverse the order establishing the ferry, Watts has prosecuted this writ of error. There is nothing apparent on the face of the order, from which any irregularity can be inferred; but it is contended the Court should have reconsidered the order on Watts' motion, because it urged Watts had previously, in the year 1800, obtained an order from the County Court of Boone, establishing a ferry across the Ohio, opposite his land, and within one mile of the ferry established on the application of Horsley. Ferry cannot be established across the Ohio within less than one mile above or below any other ferry, unless in particular cases. It devolves on the person objecting to show that there is a ferry within less than a mile. The deed of the person objecting ing cannot be introduced as evidence to prove the distance between the two ferries. Deed bearing date subsequent to the order establishing the ferry not conclusive that the land referred to in the order is included in it. Were the fact admitted, that Watts had theretofore obtained an establishment of a ferry within less than a mile of Horsley's, the conclusion from thence deduced, that no other ferry could be established within that distance would not be denied: for by the act of 1806,  (3 Litt. 361), concerning the establishment of ferries, it is provided that no ferry shall thereafter be established on the Ohio river within less than one mile above or below any other ferry that may have been theretofore established, or might be thereafter established on said river, except in particular cases described by the act. But before this provision of the act can be brought to operate upon the motion of Watts, it evidently devolved on him to prove his ferry was within less than a mile of Horsley's. To do this, the order of the Boone County Court establishing his ferry across the Ohio from his land, in 1800, was produced; and the deeds of both Horsley and Watts, for land owned by them on the Ohio, were offered in evidence to prove the distance. Owing to the ambiguity of the wording of the bill of exceptions, it is difficult to perceive whether these deeds were deemed by the Court below inadmissible evidence to prove the distance from one ferry to the other, or if admissible insufficient to establish the fact. We are, however, of opinion, that considering the evidence in either light, the decision of that Court is correct. As to its admissibility, it is clear the deed of Watts, to which Horsley is neither party nor privy, cannot be regularly used as evidence against him; but should in this case all objections to the competency of the deeds as evidence be considered as waived, it is clear they contain nothing, when taken in connection with the order establishing Watts' ferry in 1800, from which the inference of the two ferries being within less than one mile's distance can be deduced. *2 It is true the two deeds call to adjoin, and it is apparent they do not extend up and down the river one mile; but the deed of Watts contains nothing by which it can be inferred, his ferry crosses the river adjoining the land described in the deed; nor can the order establishing Watts' ferry from his land across the river in 1800, tend to prove the fact; for as the deed bears date subsequent to the order, it cannot be a fair and necessary conclusion that the land referred to in the order is included in the deed. As therefore Watts failed to prove, and did not offer competent evidence to prove his ferry was within less than one mile of Horsley's, he failed to show any just grounds for setting aside the order of the Court, and consequently the judgment of that Court in overruling the motion was correct. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Watts v. Horsley 3 Bibb 374, 6 Ky. 374, 1814 WL 797 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
