(Cite as: 4 Bibb 511,  7 Ky. 511 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1076 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Cracken, etc. v. Sanders. Apr. 16, 1817. *1 Where a contract for the sale of land is within the statute against frauds and perjuries, the improvements made on the land by the purchaser must be paid for before possession is given, deducting rent, etc. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 138(5) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k138 Contracts Implied by Law on Part Performance 185k138(5) k. Recovery for Improvements. Most Cited  Cases Where a sale of land was void by the statute of frauds, it was held that the purchaser must be paid for his improvements, deducting rent. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. M'CRACKEN having obtained a judgment in ejectment against Sanders for a mill, etc., Sanders exhibited his bill in equity, with injunction, alleging the purchase and conveyance of 157 acres of land from M'Cracken; but which, according to the description in the deed, does not include the mill etc., though, he furthermore charges, it was expressly agreed between him and M'Cracken that he should have the privilege of building a mill upon the north fork of Elkhorn, adjoining the land described in the deed; and that in pursuance of that agreement he has erected the mill and dam now in contest. On a final hearing, the Court below made Sanders' injunction perpetual against the judgment at law, from which M'Cracken has appealed to this Court. That decree, we are of opinion, cannot be sustained. The agreement alleged in the bill is expressly denied by the answer of M'Cracken: and however strong the parol evidence in the cause may be in support of the allegations of Sanders, yet as there is no proof of the agreement having been reduced to writing, the statute of frauds and perjuries, relied on by M'Cracken, presents an insuperable bar to a specific execution. Notwithstanding, however, a specific execution of the agreement cannot consistently with the rules of law be enforced, yet as we are satisfied from the evidence that Sanders built the mill, etc., under the faith of assurances from M'Cracken that he should be unmolested in the use and possession of them, M'Cracken, before he is allowed to gain the possession, ought to be compelled to compensate Sanders for the improvements remaining upon the premises. In estimating the amount of compensation, it will however be proper to deduct from the value of the improvements a reasonable sum for the use of the mill. The decree must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the Court below, and such orders and decrees there made as may conform to the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1817. McCracken v. Sanders 4 Bibb 511, 7 Ky. 511, 1817 WL 1076 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
