(Cite as: 3 J.J.Marsh. 333,  26 Ky. 333 (Ky.),  1830 WL 2132 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Trabue's Heirs v. Smeltzer &c. and vice versa. Oct. 21, 1826. *1 Entry. Notoriety. Survey. ERROR TO THE BOURBON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases Call for "Stoner's Fork of L. at Martin's cabin," known by the generality of those most conversant in that section of the country, is sufficient notoriety. JUDGE OWSLEY delivered the opinion of the Court. These are cross writs of error, brought to reverse a decree pronounced in a contest between adverse interfering claims to land. The heirs of Trabue were complainants in the court below, asserting the superior equity to the land in contest, under an entry made in the name of James Trabue, which depends upon Samuel M'Millan's settlement, and pre-emption, which depends upon Reuben Searcy. These claims are as follows: 27th December, 1799, Reuben Searcy, this day claimed a settlement, and pre-emption, &c., lying on Stoner's fork of Licking, at Martin's cabin, by settling in the year, 1777, and residing ever since. Satisfactory proof being made to the court, they are of opinion, that the said Searcy has a right to a settlement of four hundred acres, including the above location, and the pre-emption of one thousand acres adjoining, &c. 18th January, 1780, Reuben Searcy enters four hundred acres, in Kentucky, by certificate, &c., lying on Stoner's fork of Licking, at Martin's cabin. 4th January, 1780, Samuel M'Millan this day claimed a settlement and pre-emption, to a tract of land, in the district of Kentucky, lying on the south fork of Licking creek, below Stoner's settlement, adjoining Reuben Searcy's land above, and running up to the mouth of Cooper's run, for quantity, to include his improvement, by raising a crop of corn, in the year 1776. Satisfactory proof being made to the court, they are of opinion, that the said M'Millan has a right to a settlement of four hundred acres, to include said improvement, and the pre-emption of one thousand acres adjoining. 18th January, 1780, Samuel M'Millan enters four hundred acres in Kentucky, by virtue of a certificate, &c., lying on the south fork of Licking creek, below Stoner's settlement, adjoining Reuben Searcy's land above, and running up to the mouth of Cooper's run, for quantity, including his improvement. 29th April, 1780, Samuel M'Millan enters one thousand acres, upon a pre-emption warrant, on Hinkston's fork of Licking, adjoining the settlement on the east, including a cabin on a small branch, running south, for quantity. May, 25th, 1780, James Trabue enters six hundred acres of land, upon a treasury warrant, on the north side of the south fork of Licking, beginning at Samuel M'Millan's north line, extending along the same, and north, for quantity. The court below sustained the entry of Trabue and decreed the defendants in that court, to survey so much of the land held by them, as was found to be common to the survey of Trabue, as actually made, and a survey executed, as that court thought the entry ought to be surveyed. *2 That the court was correct in sustaining the entry of Trabue, we apprehend is abundantly evident, from the testimony and exhibits, contained in the cause. The main point upon which the validity of that entry depends, is the claim of Reuben Searcy, which calls to lie on Stoner's fork of Licking, at Martin's cabin, and it is impossible for a dispassionate mind to explore the evidence, and not unhesitatingly pronounce the claim of Searcy a valid one. Martin's cabin is not only represented on the connected plat to have stood near the bank of Stoner's fork of Licking, but both Stoner's fork and the cabin, are incontrovertably proved to have been known by the generality of those, most conversant in that section of the country, by their respective names, of Stoner's fork of Licking, and Martin's cabin, as well when the certificate was granted to Searcy, as when the settlement entry was made, with the surveyor. "Stoner's fork of Licking," and Martin's cabin," in entry, if known by generality of those most conversant in that section of county by those names, sufficient notoriety. But, admitting the validity of Searcy's location, it was contended in argument, that in directing the mode of surveying the entries, which depend upon Searcy, the court below erred, and for that cause, the decree should be reversed. Entry, to lie on Stoner's fork of Licking, at Martin's cabin, should be surveyed in square, with lines to cardinal points, including Martin's cabin in centre. With respect to the location of Searcy there is no difficulty in directing the survey. It should be constructed, as was directed by the court below, in a square, with lines to the cardinal points, including Martin's cabin in the centre. When thus surveyed, the southern limit of Searcy must form the northern limit of M'Millan's settlement entry, and the mouth of Cooper's run, its extreme southern extent. Between those two extremes, and extending to each, the settlement entry of M'Millan should be surveyed, with lines at right angles, and to the cardinal points, so that a line passing through the improvement at E, on the connected plat, north and south, will bisect the survey. A survey so made, will not only adjoin Reuben Searcy's land above, but will lie on the south fork of Stoner, extending up to the mouth of Cooper's run, and include M'Millan's improvement. The south side of Searcy's land will not be adjoined the whole extent of his line, as would be necessary, if there were no call in the entry of M'Millan, to control the import of the call, to adjoin the land of Searcy. The necessity of so adjoining the line of Searcy, would, however, in that case, not result from any express call in the entry, to adjoin the full extent of Searcy's line, but from what would be the supposed intention of the maker of the entry; and when, as in the entry of M'Millan, there are other express calls, which can not be complied with, and make the entry adjoin the whole extent of the line, it can not be fairly inferred, that the maker of the entry so intended to adjoin the line. *3 Entry to lie on south fork of Licking creek, below Stoner's settlement, adjoining R Searcy's land above, and running up to the mouth of Cooper's run, for quantity, to include his improvement, how to be surveyed. In such a case, therefore, it would be more consistent with the probable intention of the locator, to make the general call to adjoin Searcy, so far yield to the other express calls, as to comply with each, and shape the survey in such a form, as will comport with the general principle of squaring the survey, and including the improvement in the centre. But there is proved to have existed, at the date of M'Millan's entry, another improvement of M'Millan's on Flat run; and it was contended in argument, that the improvement so proved to have existed, equally well fits the calls of M'Millan; so that in consequence of the uncertainty, as to the improvement, which was intended by the maker of the entry, it was insisted that the entry can not be sustained. That the improvement on Flat run, is sufficiently proved to have existed at the date of the entry of M'Millan, will not be controverted, and if it equally fitted the calls of the entry, the consequence might, perhaps be fatal to the entry. But we deny that the improvement on Flat run, does equally well fit the calls of the entry. Were there no other call but that of the improvement contained in the entry there might exist great difficulty in saying which of the two improvements were intended; but there are other calls in the entry, which must be complied with, and which could not, upon any rational rule of construction, be complied with in constructing a survey, so as to include the improvement upon Flat run. Hence, we infer that the improvement on Flat run was not intended by the maker of the entry, and that it should be surveyed, as we have already described to include the other improvement. The pre-emption of M'Millan should be surveyed in a square, with lines at right angles, and adjoining his settlement on the east. A survey so made, will, on its northern limit, adjoin Searcy's settlement in part, and will adjoin M'Millan's settlement on the east, and extend south thereof, and include a cabin M'Millan's improvement on Flat run. Entry, to lie on north side of south fork of Licking, beginning at S. M'Millan's north line, extending along same, and north for quantity, how to be surveyed. Trabue's entry should be surveyed on the north and adjoining M'Millan's pre-emption, and on the east and adjoining Searcy's settlement, with lines at right angles, so as to form a square. The entry of Trabue contains no express call for the pre-emption of M'Millan, but it calls to begin at the north line of M'Millan, and to make him adjoin the north line of M'Millan's settlement, would produce the absurd consequence of making the entry of Trabue conflict with the entry of Searcy, when the entry of M'Millan, upon which Trabue depends, calls for and depends upon Searcy's entry. *4 For so much of the land in contest, as will be common to the survey of Trabue, as made, and a survey as herein directed to be made, the heirs of Trabue have established a sufficient right to overreach any claim of the defendants in the court below, decreed exclusively from an older adverse grant; and, consequently, that court ought to have decreed a surrender of the legal title, to the same, unless the defendants have succeeded, in establishing a superior equity through some other adverse entry. For the purpose of proving a superior equity, the defendants set up and rely upon various entries. Some of them claim under the following pre-emption entry. 13th January, 1783, Reuben Searcy enters one thousand acres of land, upon a pre-emption warrant, No. &c., adjoining the said Searcy's settlement, on the west end, north west side, and north end. There can be no doubt as to the goodness of this entry. It depends upon the settlement entry of Searcy, which we have already seen, is a good one; and although junior in date to the entry of Trabue, it is entitled to priority, in consequence of its pre-emptive dignity, and so far as it has been correctly surveyed, must protect the defendants against the claim of the complainants. When the settlement entry of Searcy is surveyed, as we have directed it, the pre-emption entry should be surveyed upon its west and north sides, and binding on both sides, the whole length of each line, and extending west from the south west corner of the settlement, and north from the north east corner thereof, so far, that a line extended north from the west line, and west from the north line, will include the quantity. Part of the defendants also set up and rely upon the pre-emption entry of M'Millan. That entry, we have also seen to be a valid one; and of course, to so much of the land in contest, as may be common to a survey of that entry, when made as we have directed it to be made, and the survey which has been made, the complainants can have no right to relief. Part of the defendants also set up and rely upon the following entry. May, 29th, 1780, George Riddle enters a pre-emption warrant of one thousand acres, on the forks of Licking creek, about three miles above Riddle's station, adjoining his settlement, on the east side, to begin two hundred yards above the mouth of a small creek, that runs in on the south side of the north fork, and to run down the creek to the fork, and up the south fork, and back for quantity. This entry is, also, junior in date to the entry of Trabue, under which the complainant's claim; but it is relied upon by the defendants, to be superior, in consequence of its pre-emptive dignity. But before we attach to this entry, any pre-emptive merit, its validity must be established, and this we apprehend from the evidence in the cause, has not been done. There is enough in the cause, to satisfy our minds, that the locator intended to appropriate land in the forks of Licking, above the junction of the streams now called Hinkston and Stoner; but before we can give figure to the entry, and fix upon its actual position, it is important to ascertain its beginning. For this purpose we have looked into, and searched the record, but our search has been altogether vain. We have been unable to find in the deposition of any one witness, a solitary expression, conducing to prove the existence of a small creek, running into the south side of the north fork, two hundred yards above which, the entry calls to begin. *5 In his report, it is true, the surveyor has delineated upon the connected plat, what he denominates a small branch, running into the north fork, on the south, and above the junction of the forks; but in common parlance, the expression small branch and small creek, are not understood to import precisely the same thing, and in the absence of all testimony, as to the branch, to presume from the solitary fact of its reported existence, about forty years after the entry was made, that it is the creek alluded to in the entry, we must not only confound all distinction between branches, however small, and creeks, but we must also assume what may not,, according to the course of nature, be the fact, that this small branch, had an existence prior to the date of the entry, in 1780. Expressions, "small branch and small creek," do not import precisely same idea. The entry of George Riddle can not, therefore, afford any protection to the defendants against the claim of the complainants. Part of the defendants also set up, and rely upon other entries, but as there appears to have been no effort in the preparation of the cause, to support them, it is not necessary to bestow any remarks upon them. On the part of the defendants, in the court below, exceptions to the regularity of the proceedings there?? have been taken in this court, and as the cause must be remanded to that court, it is proper to remark, that there should have been no decree against Thomas Garrard. He appears not to have been made a defendant, and was for the first time introduced into the cause, by pronouncing a decree against him. But, as respects the other persons, against whom the decree was made, no solid objection to the court proceeding to hear and decide the cause, is perceived. Various other persons were made defendants by the complainants, and as to whom, the cause was not in a state of preparation for trial; but there is nothing in the cause to show such anunity of interest between those persons and the defendants, against whom the decree was entered, as to forbid the hearing of the cause, as to any, before the cause was prepared for trial as to all. The decree must be reversed, the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered, in conformity to the principles of this opinion. Each party must pay his own costs in this court. Talbot and Triplett, for Trabue's heirs; Crittenden and Haggin, for Smeltzer, &c. J. J. Crittenden, as counsel for Smelzer, &c., presented the following petition for a re-hearing: Petition for a rehearing. The counsel for Ruddle, Ship, &c., respectfully request of the court, a re-consideration and re-hearing of this case. And without troubling the court with a discussion, they will submit only such remarks and suggestions, as may be necessary to call the attention of the court to those points upon which they rely; and which, possibly, may have heretofore escaped the scrutiny and consideration of the judges. *6 Trabue's heirs are complainants, claiming under an entry in the name of their ancestor, for 600 acres, and seeking to recover the land in contest, from those in the adverse possession thereof, under other claims. The entry of the complainants calls for, and depends upon the claim of Samuel McMillan (or McMullin) and McMillin's, calls for and depends upon the claim of Reuben Searcy. The complainants in their own bill, expressly allege, that the entry of Searcy "is not valid in law," and that the entry of McMillan is "destitute of the precision and notoriety required by law." They have thus destroyed the foundation of their own claim. Can they be permitted to introduce proof that those claims are valid, and to recover, on the strength of that proof, against their own allegations? If they can not, the court has erred in sustaining their entry and decreeing in their favor. The court has directed Searcy's settlement to be surveyed in a square, with lines to the cardinal points, including Martin's cabin in the centre; and McMillan to adjoin him, binding on Searcy's southern limit, and extending southwardly to Cooper's run, &c. Placing the improvement in the center, as nearly as practicable, and then McMillan's pre-emption to lie on the east thereof. These claims, when so surveyed, will present the following figure: TABULAR OR GRAPHIC MATERIAL SET AT THIS POINT IS NOT DISPLAYABLE TABLE The court has then directed the complainant's claim to be laid down in a square, in the angle at A. adjoining Searcy's settlement and McMillan's pre-emption. But why not lay it down in the angle B? Either angle equally well fits the entry of the complainants. If an entry by its calls fits two places equally well, it is void for uncertainty. Or at least it must assume that position most advantageous to the opposing claimants. It is evident, Trabue can not be placed on the centre of McMillan's northern limit, for Searcy's settlement occupies that ground; and it is absurd to suppose that he, (Trabue) intended to cover an entry, adopted as the basis and foundation of his own. This is the reasoning of the court. He must then be placed either on the one side or the other. Both suit equally well the calls of his entry. Can he have his choice? Certainly not. On what reason is it then, that the court has located Trabue in the angle A, in preference to the angle B? Perhaps the court meant thereby, that he ought to keep clear of Searcy's pre-emption, which they had fixed in the angle at B. But it must be remembered that Searcy's pre-emption entry was not made until near three years after Trabue's; and when Searcy did enter his pre-emption, he had a pre-emptive, or at least, an equal right to choose either angle, and appropriate it by his entry; and his subsequent location can not be permitted to determine the locality of Trabue's, that had been floating for about two years, and could derive no certainty or precision from the after made entry of Searcy. Again the complainants claim and seek to recover as the heirs of James Trabue. Their heirship is not admitted. On the contrary, they are called upon in the answer of the Smeltzers page 21, "for full proof of the goodness of their title, both in law and equity." And there is no proof in the record that they are the heirs of Trabue. *7 But if, after all, the complainants are entitled to recover, the cause ought not to be closed, but to be thrown open for new proceedings, for the following reasons: The persons made defendants in the original bill are Laban Shipp, Isaac Ruddle, (Hoy's heirs without naming them) James Coons, John Mulherrin, Daniel Garrard, Cornelius Ruddle, Peter Smith, ________ Smeltzer, Barbara Smeltzer, and Samuel M'Millan; against M'Millan and Hoy's heirs. No proceedings appear to have been had. An amended bill brings in John Smeltzer, sen'r., John Smeltzer, jr., and Warren Bates, and alleges that they have got in, and hold possession, and also James Coons, with them, under Isaac Ruddle; but does not charge them with having title. The decree below was rendered against Laban Shipp, John Smeltzer, without saying either senior or junior, and it can not be told which, James Coons, Warren Bates, and John Smeltzer again. Now, it will be seen that the claim as directed to be laid down by the appellate court, will be taken off in part, from these defendants and be placed on others, and no absolute decree ought to be rendered against them at once, because, as to some of them, it does not appear that they have title, and others evidently have not. The title of part of the land is charged to be in Isaac Ruddle, and on his death, there is an order of revivor; but no revival is had against his heirs. Coons is charged with getting into possession of their lands; but not with having title. He admits his possession, but not his title; and yet a decree has gone against him for land, the title to which appears to be in the heirs of Isaac Ruddle, who are no parties to the suit. John Smeltzer, senior and junior, both answer and admit title as to part; but expressly deny any title, except by bond, as to the residue; and yet a decree is directed at once against them, without bringing the holder of the legal title before the court. Peter Smith, Barbara Smeltzer, and ______ Smeltzer, must now be affected by the decree as directed; and their lands are now covered. They expressly deny having any thing more than an equitable title; and of course, the legal title holders, must be brought before the court. For it is a settled and unquestionable doctrine in chancery, that no decree for lands ought to be rendered unless the holders of the legal title are parties. The counsel for Trabue's heirs, influenced by the most anxious desire to bring to a termination, a case which has been protracted by repeated decisions, for some four or five years; and at length, as the undersigned had forcibly known, finally determined by a decision, solemnly pronounced, after mature deliberation, in favor of his client, respectfully submits, a few remarks in reference to the petition for a re-hearing, filed by the counsel for his opponents. These remarks will be confined to the two points, made in the petition, which allege a defect of the evidence, on the part of the complainant, to manifest that they are the heirs at law, of their father, James Trabue, deceased, under whom they derive their right to sue in the present case; and that which imputes to the complainants the destruction of their own claim, on the pretence, that they have in their bill, alleged that the settlement and pre-emption claims, which the entry of their ancestor calls to adjoin, are invalid for want of certainty in their locations. *8 In all that concerns the real and true merits of the present contest, the validity and relative merits of the opposing claims, the counsel has not the slightest apprehension that your honors will feel the slightest inclination to disturb the very able and correct opinion of your predecessors, by whom it was matured and pronounced. And in answer to the suggestions in the petition, on the first point, it is worthy of remark, and entitled to the most serious consideration, that this objection is now suggested and urged, for the first time, on the part of the defendants. Neither in any stage of the progress of the cause in the circuit court; the final trial in that court, in pleading or argument; in the assignment of errors in this court; in the brief presented by them, in which, by the rules of the court, all the points intended to be relied on in the argument of the cause, or in the argument, successively urged at the hearings before this court, by the able and enlightened counsel, first general Hardin and then by Mr. Crittenden, has this point ever been urged or insinuated, as one that ought to affect the decision in the cause. That it ought not, at this period, and on the present application, which is for a re-hearing of the cause, an alleged error in the opinion of this court, the undersigned feels the most entire conviction. The objection is urged at this time, with no pretence of even a doubt or insinuation, that the complainants are not the children, and truly, the heirs at law of their father, James Trabue. It is a fact which they might, at the proper time, and in legal form, have fairly contended, by a simple denial, or the expression of even a doubt of the heirship of the complainants, and a requisition of proof on their part, that they were really entitled to the character in which they sued. Had such denial or requisition have been made and urged by the defendant, in their answers, as in all justice and candor it should have been, the complainants would have been put upon their guard, and on their inability or failure to make the proof, they would have been dismissed, as impostors, from the court, and they, as well as the defendants, spared the enormous expense of preparing a suit of such complication, on its merits. Response to petition. Is it therefore, compatible with the wisdom of the chancellor, or the justice of the court, or the well understood principles of chancery proceedings, that complainants, suing in the characters of heirs at law, of a deceased father, their claim to which is of general notoriety in the county in which they reside and sue, fairly setting forth their claim to property, the title of which is prayed to be decreed them, are met, on the part of the defendants, by no denial or doubt of their right to the character thus assumed, But with a denial of the validity of their title to the land, the subject of the suit, and with an assertion of the better and paramount title of the defendant, held and decreed to them by adverse rights, that a full, fair and open investigation of these hostile rights, on their merits; that the complainants should, for the first time, on petition for a re-hearing, be met with the objection, that they have no title to the character in which they have asserted their superior right to the matter in contest? And does not every principle of justice revolt at such proceedings? It is the provision of all pleadings in equity as well as at law, to bring all the matters in contention to an issue, either at law or fact. On matters alleged and not denied, no issue can be joined; nor should evidence be required to support the affirmation. But when the matter thus affirmed, as in the present case the heirship of the complainants is mere matter of inducement, preliminary to the setting out the title to the thing in contest, nor the ordinary subject of litigation between the parties, shall the defendants be permitted, by an artful silence, acquiescing in the statement, by such silence, and thus lulling his adversary, into a security, which your honors are called on to pronounce a fatal one, be permitted, tacitly, to reserve to himself the right, after years of silence and acquiescence, to urge, for the first time, long after a final decision of the merits of the cause, by the appellate tribunal, to urge the want of evidence of a point preliminary to the merits of the case. *9 That the complainant is not entitled to sue in the character which he assumes, is matter in abatement, and should be urged in equity as well as at law; if not with technical rigour, and according to the most liberal application of the principle, it should be expressly stated and relied on, either by way of plea, or in the answer of the defendant, or can he controvert the right to prosecute the suit in the charaster assumed. And upon principles of public policy, general convenience and individual justice, when the defendant to each bill, instead of controverting the right to sue; passing over such allegation in perfert silence, and choosing to stake the issue of the contest on the merits of adverse claims, fairly put in opposition, ought, by such acquiescence, to be deemed to have waived this and all other preliminary questions, which affect not the determination of the rights respectively, put in opposition by the contending parties. If an action at common law, affecting a right in the character of executor, or heir at law, to the thing or matter which is the subject of the suit, there are appropriate pleas for putting in issue the right of the plaintiff to sue in the character he has assumed. If the defendant, by passing by such plea, and relying on some other matter in bar of the plaintiff's right, forever waives all future right to question the plaintiff's right thus to sue, in the character he assumes. Is there any substantial reason for the application of a different rule in equity, when the same person, in the same character of executor or heir at law, files his bill in equity, affecting the same or similar rights in those characters in a court of equity? No difference in principle seems to exist between the courts of law and equity. And if any difference can be found, it can not be in favor of the court of law, in which rules, purely technical and artificial, are often found subversive of justice, and the right of the case. How much more strongly will the chancellor show duty, and delight it is to attain the ends of justice, regardless of forms, and emancipated from technical restraints, lean against all attempts to subvert the justice of the case, by rejecting their application to suits in equity. But these arguments, applicable to common cases, are entitled to the highest consideration, and ought to have conclusive force, in a case circumstanced as the present is. In this case, not only have the parties who now urge this vein of proof, made no denial, expressed no doubts, demanded no proof of the heirship of the complainants, in their answer, or on any occasion, in any stage of the progress of the cause in the circuit court; but join issue on the merits of the claim, when in the assignment of errors; in the briefs of counsel; in the arguments of counsel, where the subject is not touched or alluded to, in the able and luminous opinion of the court. Is it competent for the party, who has, for so long a time, on so many occasions, omitted to urge this objection, on a petition for a re-hearing, assigning errors, in the opinion of the court, on points never made in argument, or touched by the court in their opinion? *10 Is it not as absurd as urgent, to impeach the opinion of the court as erroneous; and urgent on points not touched in the opinion, and in which the adjudication of the court has never been asked, either by the assignment of error, the brief, or the arguments of counsel? And if the party had once a right in this court, to insist on this objection, has he not, by waiving it on so many fit occasions (if such right existed), waived his right forever? Nor will your honors permit the justice of the court to be affected, the rights of the complainants to be forever lost, or sacrificed for an omission in the preparation of this cause, which the undersigned can never be induced for a moment to believe, in the existing state of the pleadings he was bound in duty to himself, to make? Forbid it justice! forbid it heaven! No decision, in the opinion of the undersigned, inadvertently or hastily given, without a view of the whole ground, the reasons and the consequences of such opinion, can make it reason, law or justice, all of which are outraged by such decision. Replication to response. The next objection taken to this opinion in the petition of the defendants, that the complainants in their bill have averred the invalidity of the entries of Searcy and of M'Millan, on the existence of which, the entry, of the complainant depends, in part, for its support, is entitled to but very little consideration in the mind of an enlightened and upright judge; and is founded on the preferment of the merest legal quibble. The complainants having set forth their entry in its words and letter, even in the most precise and appropriate language, that it possesses all the qualities of a valid entry. And although they subsequently by mere inadvertence, state that they are advised by counsel that the conflicting claims are founded on entries which are invalid, and which have been surveyed illegally, and variant from their locations, the latter part of which averment is strictly proper and appropriate. Will the mind of any liberal and enlightened judge, upon the ground of a mere inadvertence of language in the drafting of the bill, not averring the invalidity of the entry as a matter of law or fact, but merely as the advice or opinion of his counsel, operate the destruction of his claim? Although he has averred in emphatic terms, the validity and superiority of his own title, over that of the defendants, and demanded in appropriate terms, a conveyance of the defendant's title, alleged to be invalid on account of the error in surveying the claims under which they derived their title. Never. Wherefore, &c., &c. Benjamin Mills, as counsel for Smeltzer, filed the following replication to the petition of Mr. Talbot. The counsel for the petitioner, in this case, feels gratified in having, at last the opportunity of bringing a revision of the cause before a court of judges, competent to re-hear and decide it. It was at first heard and decided by two judges only, when one was about to retire from the bench, and both were hastening to conclude the causes exclusively confided to them. The petition for a re-hearing came in due time, under the most solemn conviction, that the judges had inadvertently overlooked some important defects in the proof of the complainants below. But still the petition came too late. One of the judges had reired and the third judge deemed himself incompetent to sit in the cause, having been of counsel for one of the parties, while the cause was in the court of original jurisdiction. *11 Of success now, the counsel for the petitioners could not entertain a doubt, if the cause remained before the judges who originally decided it. The readiness and magnanimity with which those ornaments of the bench would approach, and correct, their inadvertences, mistakes and unintentional errors, would be a safe guarantee of success, on the petition for a rehearing. And all this memorialist has to fear, is the high respect that your honors may justly pay to the decree of your predecessors, and the delicacy which must be felt in correcting even their errors But notwithstanding this opposing difficulty, it is with a degree of confidence, that the application for a speedy rehearing is pressed and seriously urged. It is observed, as an omen of success, that the counsel for the adverse party, in response to the petition, evinces some alarm at some of the exceptions taken to the decree. He seems to feel the weight of the allegation, that the complainants claim as heirs, and yet wholly fail to prove that they are the heirs of the man whose entry and patent they set up. He analogizes the case to a party sueing in a wrong character, when he has a right to sue in some char acter; in which case he alleges, that the variance must be placed in abatement. There is no resemblance. It is not a character here in which the parties have attempted to sue, when they support title in another character. But it is an essential allegation of a fact necessary to give them title. Without it. they have no claim to the entry which they set up, and for any thing that appears, the court is decreeing the land to strangers, and not privies to the estate of James Trabue. It is urged that the objection comes too late; that the cause was heard in the court below, without saying any thing about the absence of all proof of heirship, and that the briefs, assignment of errors and previous argument here, are and were all silent on this point. It does not appear that there was silence below, on this point, and it is wholly immaterial if there was. The complainants in that court, set out an entry, survey and patent of James Trabue; allege his death; that they are his heirs at law, and as such, his title descended to them. They are put upon the proof of their case, generally, and this is enough. The complainants failed to make a syllable of proof in support of these essential allegations, and still that court decreed in their favor. The general error is assigned here, that the decree is erroneous, and that is enough if the complainants have no title. If it be conceded that the total absence of this proof was overlooked by the counsel who argued, and the judges who decided the cause; this more clearly proves that the error ought to be corrected, while the cause is in the power of the court. One word more as to the answers below, not denying totidem verbis, that the complainants are the heirs of James Trabue. This omission would not authorize the court to take the bill as confessed, on this point. For the doctrine is well settled in this court, by numerous decisions, that the omission of the defendant, who has answered, to deny any allegation, will not warrant the taking that allegation as true, unless the truth or falsehood of the facts charged, are such as must necessarily be within the knowledge of the defendant, who has made the omission. The heirship of these complainants here, is a fact to which, from any thing which appears, the defendants were entire strangers. If, therefore, they were silent about it, the complainants must prove it. *12 It is urged in the response, that the rule ought to be the same in chancery as at law, on this point, and the proceedings in a court of law are referred to, to sustain this decree. The reference is unfortunate. Suppose these complainants had possessed the elder grant and had brought their ejectment, what would they have been compelled to prove on the trial of the general issue? Certainly that James Trabue, the patentee, was dead; that they and each of them were recognized by him, and known to his friends and relatives as his children, and that one of his daughters had married a certain William B. Scott, whereby her name was changed; and if they failed in this, they would be subject to a non-suit, or a verdict against them. With less than this, they can not get through in a court of equity, and not one syllable on this point, is proved. There have been many similar cases in this court, supposed to be cases of great hardship, when long and important chancery suits for land, have been prepared, in favor of persons claiming as heirs, and who perhaps, relying on the notoriety of the facts, dehors the record, have failed to prove that they were heirs, and for the first time, this defect has been taken advantage of in this court. The court has been appealed to on account of the supposed hardship, to open such causes, and remand them for further proceedings. This has been invariably refused, as against both principle and the settled law of the court, and it has become customary to reverse such decrees and dismiss the bill by silent entry on record, without any opinion. The same has happened to complainants who set up title to land by execution and failing to produce the judgment. Their cases have been decided on the ground that they had wholly failed to show title. The case is analogous to a party complainant, claiming title by grant or devise, and failing to produce his deed or the will. Like the man who claims as heir and fails to prove himself so, he loses his case, as most others do, because they want sufficient proof of right. The respondent need not complain of such violence to the justice and equity of the cause, by such procedure. Is it just or equitable in the court, to decree the land to him who has no title? The respondent seems to make light of the argument, that the complainants have charged expressly, in their bill, that the locations of Searcy and M'Millan are void, and yet are allowed to recover, by proving these locations to be good and valid, being part of their own entry. I do conceive that the risk that the allegation and proof must correspond, is too well settled, both in chancery, and at law, to need the support of authority. If a party plaintiff or complainant, proves facts merely different from what they are alleged, he must fail, on account of the variance. Certainly the reason is more strong, when he flatly contradicts and disproves his allegations. There is a famous case in Wheaton's Reports, which I can not now refer to, where the supreme court of the nation refused relief in a land case, in this country, because the complainant failed to allege that his own entry was a good one, or his adversary's a bad one. The book is not at hand, but the case can be found, if thought necessary on this point. *13 I trust that it will be distinctly understood that the remaining grounds taken in the petition, are not abandoned. They are relied on as valid against the complainant's right. It was not observed by the court, that in the mode the claims are to be surveyed, two north sides are presented of M'Millan's claim, one on each side of Searcy, and that laying the complainants on either side, will equally well comply with their calls, and therefore, their claim is valid. It will also be seen that it is wholly uncertain what John Smeltzer the decree is against. It is also evident that the position of the complainant's claim is changed, by the decree of the court, from that which it occupied, as directed by the decree of the court below. By the latter decree, one set of defendants lost, and others escaped. By the decree of this court, the losers below succeed, and the claim is laid on those who were successful in the first instance. The class, who now lose, have, by the pleadings and proof, no legal estate, and but bonds only, and those who hold the legal title are not before the court. It is an evident and clear principle, that the chancellor will not sustain a bill, on an adverse entry, against the holder of an equity only, and grant possession alone, or decree those to convey, who have no legal title. All such bills go for relief against the legal estate, and the chancellor will not try the cause till all claimants are before him, because the holder of the legal estate would not be bound by such decree, and suits would, thereby, be multiplied. On this ground, if all others fail, the cause ought to be sent back for new parties and new proceedings, in which event, it would be ultimately unsuccessful, by a defense never yet made. But it is hoped that the court, on finding that the complainants have no title, will not find it necessary to protract the cause further, but will dismiss the bill on the ground herein first discussed. Upon the whole case, therefore, a rehearing is urgently but respectfully again solicited, vide Oldham v. Rowan, III. Bibb, 534. NOTE. The opinion in this case, was suspended by the petition for re-hearing, until 20th January, '30, when the court decreed that the foregoing opinion stand unaltered and affirmed. Judge Mills did not sit in this case; and after resignation of his office of judge, appeared as counsel for Smeltzer, &c. Ky.App. 1826. Trabue's Heirs v. Smeltzer 3 J.J.Marsh. 333, 26 Ky. 333, 1830 WL 2132 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
