(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 522,  9 Ky. 522 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1111 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bird Smith v. Bartholomew Blunt. Oct. 10, 1820. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 450(10) 161 Execution 161XV Execution Against the Person 161k450 Discharge on Surrender of or Disclosure as to Property 161k450(10) k. Hearing, Determination, Discharge, and Review.  Most Cited Cases A certificate of a debtor's insolvency is evidence only against the plaintiff in the execution under which it was procured, and his privies. Assignments 38 k 96 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k95 Rights of Assignee as Against Assignor 38k96 k. Right of Recourse. Most Cited  Cases The holder of an assigned instrument cannot, upon failure to recover of the debtor, maintain an action against the assignor, when he did not take out a capias ad satisfaciendum against the debtor until five months after a return of "No property" upon a fieri facias. Bills and Notes 56 k 299 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(B) Indorsement for Transfer 56k299 k. Necessity, to Charge Indorser, of Proceeding  Against Maker. Most Cited Cases Under the statute, the assignee of a promissory note, by omitting to sue out a capias ad satisfaciendum for five months after the return of the fieri facias, discharges the assignor from his liability. Bonds 58 k 87 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k87 k. Rights and Liabilities on Assignment or Sale. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k90) The assignee's neglect for five months to sue out a ca. sa., after the return of the fieri facias, discharges the assignor. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: On the 10th of June, 1815, John D. Young executed to Bartholomew Blunt a note, by which he promised to pay two hundred dollars sixty days after date. This note was afterwards assigned by Blunt to Bird Smith, and payment thereof not being made, Smith brought suit upon the note against Young. Smith, however, having ultimately failed to make the amount out of Young, brought this suit against Blunt upon the assignment of the note. For the purpose of showing his right to recover, Smith, on the trial in the circuit court, produced in evidence a transcript of the record and proceedings had by him in the action on the note; from which it appears that the action was commenced on the 15th of August, 1815, the writ served on the 18th of August, 1815, judgment rendered therein against Young at the September term, 1815, a fieri facias issued thereon the 2d of October, 1815, upon which the sheriff returned no property found, and on the 24th day of April, 1816, a capias ad satisfaciendum issued against the body of Young, and was executed by the sheriff, but by agreement of the parties Young was not imprisoned, and Blunt waived all objections to the exercise of due diligence on account of Young's discharge from execution. Smith also offered in evidence two certificates given by two justices of the peace, one dated the 2d of September, 1815, and the other the 2d of October, 1815, purporting to be discharges of said Young as an insolvent debtor from imprisonment, where he had been committed under executions to which neither Smith or Blunt was party or privy. These certificates were objected to by Blunt and excluded by the court; and there being no other evidence offered, the court, on the motion of Blunt, instructed the jury to find as in case of a non suit. *2 Were the certificates properly rejected, we apprehend, there can be little doubt but the court decided correctly in giving the instructions to the jury. It is not only necessary for an assignee to use proper diligence in the commencement of suit upon the assigned obligation, but the suit, when commenced, should, moreover, by the vigilant application of all the means furnished by law to the assignee, be diligently pursued throughout. Suit upon the assigned note should not only be commenced in proper time, but after judgment final execution must also be sued out in proper time; and for neglect in either the assignor will be absolved from liability. And as the suing out a ca. sa. is indispensable to the assignee's right to recourse against the assignor, that negligence in failing to commence suit, which would discharge the assignor, will also discharge him if applied to the suing out the ca. sa. On an assigned obligation, plaintiff omitting to sue forth a ca. sa. for five months after the the return of the fi. fa., is an unreasonable delay, and as a ca. sa. is indispensable, the assignor is discharged from his liability. An application of these principles to the case under consideration will demonstrate the insufficiency of the evidence admitted to authorise the plaintiff to recover. The ca. sa. appears not to have issued for nearly five months after the return day of the fi. fa. A failure to sue for such a length of time after an assigned obligation becomes payable has been held inexcusable negligence; and a fortiori should the failure in not suing out the ca. sa. for that time discharge the assignor from liability. It is true the fi. fa. issued in apt and proper time, but the circumstance of the assignee having exercised proper diligence in one thing can not excuse him from the exercise of it in relation to other things. And with respect to the excluded evidence, we are of the opinion the court decided correctly. If by the discharge of an insolvent debtor he were not liable to be again imprisoned at the suit of other creditors, it would follow that the certificates of discharge ought to be evidence; for, as in that case, the insolvent debtor could not be again regularly arrested under a ca. sa., the certificate of discharge, from necessity, would, as to all the world, in cases involving the question, be competent evidence to prove the discharge. Certificates of debtor's insolvency is evidence only against the plaintiff in execution under which it was procured, and his privies. But under the statute of this country the insolvent debtor, notwithstanding such a discharge, may be imprisoned at the suit of other creditors, and if desirous of availing himself of the law concerning insolvent debtors, would have again to take the oath prescribed for debtors of that character, and before he would do so the person at whose suit he may be imprisoned should have due notice. The discharge of the justice, therefore, can not have been intended by the legislature in their enactments upon the subject to have any operation against those having no interest in the cause in which the debtor may have been released; and to make the certificate of discharge evidence against others would be a palpable violation of the rule which excludes the admission of records as evidence against persons not parties or privies thereto. *3 If the debtor be discharged from an execution which issues upon a judgment obtained on the assigned bond, there is no doubt but in an action against the assignor of the bond the certificate of discharge would be admissible evidence, but the propriety of its admission in such a case results from the necessity of pursuing the obligor in an action upon the bond to insolvency, and that necessity does not require the certificate to be used in evidence against any other than those who may have assigned the obligation upon which the judgment was obtained, and from which the insolvent debtor has, by the certificate, been discharged. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Wickliffe for appellant, Haggin for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Smith v. Blunt 2 A.K.Marsh. 522, 9 Ky. 522, 1820 WL 1111 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
