(Cite as: 4 Litt. 165,  14 Ky. 165 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1247 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Harris v. Simpson. Oct. 16, 1823. *1 FROM THE ESTILL CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bail 49 k 10 49 Bail 49I In Civil Actions 49k9 Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k10 k. Necessity and Authority to Take. Most Cited  Cases Special bail, taken by a sheriff out of the county, is extra official and void. Bail 49 k 28 49 Bail 49I In Civil Actions 49k25 Action or Scire Facias on Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k28 k. Defenses. Most Cited Cases Bail may defend against scire facias on the ground that the bond was taken by the sheriff out of his county, and is therefore void. CAPERTON for plaintiff; TURNER for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was a scire facias, brought by Harris upon the following acknowledgment by Simpson, on a capias ad respondendum, which issued from the clerk's office of the Estill circuit court, in favor of Harris, against Lewis Jones, and directed to the sheriff of Estill county: "I do hereby acknowlege myself special bail for the within named Lewis Jones, in the suit herein named, as witness my hand and seal, this 24th of January, 1820." A recognizance of special bail, taken by a sheriff out of the county of which he is sheriff, is extra official and void, and the bail is not estopped from pleading this matter in a scire facias on a recognizance. To the scire facias Simpson pleaded, that judgment ought not to be rendered, and execution issued against him in this case, because, he says, that the original writ of capias ad respondendum in favor of Harris, against Lewis Jones, in the scire facias mentioned, was directed to the sheriff of Estill county, and that the said sheriff, to-wit, William Beatty, had said Lewis Jones in custody, in the town of Richmond and county of Madison, on the day and date of said recognizance, and that he, the said Simpson, then and there, to-wit, at Richmond, in Madison county, and not in Estill county, entered into said recognizance, and this he is ready to verify, &c. To this plea Harris demurred, and the demurrer being joined, judgment was rendered by the court in favor of Simpson. To reverse that judgment, this writ of error has been prosecuted. Unless, upon some technical rule of pleading, the defendant is estopped to allege the matter contained in his plea, there can be no serious doubt, but that the court below was correct in the judgment which it rendered against the plaintiff upon his demurrer. Wherever bail is required of a defendant, the sheriff may, no doubt, whilst in the regular discharge of his official functions, upon executing the writ, receive from the bail such an acknowledgment as that upon which the scire facias in this case is founded; and the acknowledgment, when so received, will, under the act of the legislature, have the force of a recognizance of special bail. 1 Dig. L. K. 257. But, to have the force of a recognizance, the acknowledgment must, we apprehend, be received by the sheriff whilst acting within the legitimate limits of his official duty. Beyond the limits of his county, a sheriff derives no authority from any writ to him directed; and the act alluded to, has conferred upon him no power to receive acknowledgments from special bail, beyond those limits. Whatever may, therefore, be done by a sheriff in executing a writ, or receiving thereon the acknowledgment of special bail, out of the county of which he is sheriff, is extra official and inoperative. *2 But the plea in this case charges the fact, that the acknowledgment upon which the scire facias is founded, was received by the sheriff out of the county of Estill, of which he was sheriff; and the question occurs, is it competent for the defendant to avail himself of that matter by way of defense to the scire facias? We apprehend it is. Were it even conceded to be incompetent for the defendant to traverse the return of the sheriff upon the writ in the original action, it would not thence follow, that the plea in question should not be sustained; for, instead of traversing the return of the sheriff, the plea admits that the defendant made the acknowledgment contained on the original writ, and upon which the scire facias is founded; and by alleging matter foreign from the return, the plea attempts to avoid the operation of that acknowledgment as a recognizance of special bail. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Harris v. Simpson 4 Litt. 165, 14 Ky. 165, 1823 WL 1247 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 101 END OF DOCUMENT
