(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 144,  17 Ky. 144 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1512 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hawkins, &c. v. The Commonwealth, for the use of Smith. Oct. 18, 1824. *1 Attachments, Void and Voidable, Sheriffs. ERROR TO THE BATH CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Process 313 k 163 313 Process 313III Defects, Objections, and Amendment 313k161 Amendment of Defects 313k163 k. Writ or Other Process or Notice. Most Cited  Cases Since a writ returnable on a day out of term is void, it cannot be amended. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 157(3) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k157 Accrual or Release of Liability by Breach or Fulfillment of Conditions 353k157(3) k. Acts of Deputies. Most Cited  Cases A deputy sheriff's failure to levy and return a foreign attachment issued by a justice of the peace for a sum less than $50 is not a breach of the sheriff's bond;  such attachment being void. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 159 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k159 k. Summary Remedies. Most Cited Cases A motion against the sureties of the sheriff on his official bond for money collected by him and not paid over must be joint against all of them, and not against a part only. Courts 106 k 120 106 Courts 106III Courts of General Original Jurisdiction 106III(A) Grounds of Jurisdiction in General 106k119 Amount or Value in Controversy 106k120 k. Requisite Amount or Value. Most Cited  Cases An attachment for less than $50, returnable to the circuit court, is void after the act increasing the jurisdiction of justices of the peace went into effect. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This suit was brought in the name of the Commonwealth, for the use and benefit of Weathers Smith, against Hawkins and his sureties, upon his official bond as sheriff. The bond is in the usual form, with a condition, "that if Hawkins, as sheriff of the county of Bath, shall, by himself or deputies, well and truly collect all officers' fees and dues put into his or their hands to collect and account for, and pay the same at such time and in such manner as is directed by law; shall also well and truly execute, and due return make of all process and precepts to him directed, and to him or them delivered, and pay and satisfy all sums of money or tobacco by him or them received, or which ought to have been received upon any such process or receipts, to the person or persons entitled thereto, and in all other things shall truly and faithfully execute and perform the said office of sheriff, according to law, during the time of his continuance therein, then the above obligation to be void; otherwise to remain in full force and virtue." *2 The bond of the sheriff and its condition. After setting out the bond and condition, the declaration alleges for breach, first, "that on the 21st day of September, 1818, there issued from the office of Peter Davis, a justice of the peace for Bath county, a writ of attachment, in favor of Weathers Smith, against the ??estate of Charles Grimes, of the said county of Bath, ??for the sum of thirty-seven dollars and fifty cents, with lawful interest from the first day of August, 1818, and the costs of attachment, which attachment duly came to the hands of John M. Hawkins, deputy for the said John Hawkins, sheriff of Bath county, and was returnable to the next circuit court to be holden for said coun??y of Bath, on which writ of attachment the said John M. Hawkins, deputy as aforesaid, received the amount of principal, interest, costs and sheriff's commissions, ??s will appear from his return made thereon the 20th ??ay of October, 1818; but the same to pay to him, the ??aid Weathers Smith, the person entitled thereto has wholly failed and refused, although often requested." First assignment of breach. Three other assignments of breaches are contained ??n the declaration, neither of which, however, need be ??ow recited. It is sufficient for the present purpose, to ??emark that each of those assignments sets out attach??ents for like sums, which issued from a justice of the ??eace returnable to the circuit court, and each of which ??re alleged to have come to the hands of John M. Haw??ins, deputy for John Hawkins, sheriff, and in each as??ignment the deputy is either averred to have received ??he amounts of the attachments from the person ??gainst whose estate they issued, and failed to pay the ??ame to Smith, the plaintiff in the attachments, or to ??ave failed to levy the same, and make due and legal ??eturn thereof. The other assignments of breaches. The sheriff and his sureties demurred to the declar??tion and the demurrer being joined, it was overruled ??y the court. Demurrer to declaration. The first question to be noticed, involves the correct??ess of the decision upon the demurrer. The solution of this question turns upon the further ??uestion, whether or not either of the assignments of breaches is sufficient to show a liability in the sheriff?? and his sureties, upon his official bond. (1.) We should have no hesitation in answering this question in the affirmative, if the attachments mentioned in the assignment of breaches were admitted to be of any legal validity. The bond of the sheriff, in explicit terms, requires of him, either in person or by deputy, to well and truly execute and due return make of all process and precepts to him directed, and to him or his deputy delivered; and, of course, whenever there is a failure by the sheriff or his deputy, to execute o?? due return make of any valid process or precept to either of them delivered, and to the sheriff directed?? and which might have been executed, an action may be sustained upon the official bond, in behalf of the person in whose favor such process issued. But we de not admit that either of the attachments mention??ed in the assignment of breaches is of any legal valid??ity. Each of those attachments appears to have issue?? since the passage of the act increasing the jurisdiction of justices of the peace to fifty dollars; and a?? each is for a less sum of money than fifty dollars, an?? was made returnable to the circuit court, neither ca?? be admitted to be of any legal efficacy. In the case o??  Owens v. Starr, 2 Litt. Rep. 234, it was decided, tha?? attachments for sums of money less than fifty dollars are exclusively cognizable before justices of the peace and cannot legally be made returnable to the circui?? court; and if, in that opinion, we were correct, each o?? the attachments mentioned in the assignment o?? breaches in this case must necessarily be intrinsicall?? vitious, and void ab initio. We know that for an i?? regularity in the return day of an execution, it is sai?? the process will not be adjudged absolutely void; bu?? a distinction exists between final and original proces?? and though an error of that sort, in the former case, i?? amendable, it is said not to be so as to the latter. *3 (1) Attachments for less than 50 dollars (since the act increasing the jurisdiction of justices to that sum) returnable to the circuit court, are merely void. (2.) If, therefore, each of the attachments is void, ?? follows, that neither of the assignments of breache?? show any breach of the condition of the sheriff's offici?? bond. Though received by the deputy, if void, the a?? tachments conferred no authority upon the deput?? and of course the plaintiff in the attachments can hav?? no cause of complaint against the sheriff, for the fai??ure of the deputy to levy and return the attachments. (2) The failure of the deputy to levy and return a void attachment is no breach of the condition of the sheriff's bond. (3.) Nor is the sheriff liable, if, as alleged the deputy received from the person against whom the attachments issued, the amount thereof, and faild to pay the same to the plaintiff in the attachments; for, having received the money under void process, the deputy must be considered as holding it for the use of the plaintiff in whose favor the process issued, not in his official capacity, but as a private individual; and it is to him, and not to the principal sheriff, the plaintiff must have recourse for indemnity. (3) The failure of the deputy to pay over money collected on void process, is not a breach of the condition of his principal's official bond. The plaintiff in the process may recover it of the deputy, as money received, in his private, not official capacity, for his (plaintiff's) use--Arg. It results, therefore, that the declaration is insufficient, and consequently the demurrer ought to have been sustained. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded, and judgment entered in the court below in favor of the sheriff and his sureties, upon the demurrer, &c. Triplett, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1824. Hawkins v. Commonwealth 1 T.B.Mon. 144, 17 Ky. 144, 1824 WL 1512 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
