(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 45,  17 Ky. 45 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1477 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Poignard v. Vernon and Blake. Oct. 8, 1824. *1 Action, Assumpsit, Covenant, Assignor and Assignee. ERROR TO THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT; JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Principal and Surety 309 k 194(3) 309 Principal and Surety 309V Rights and Remedies of Surety 309V(C) As to Co-Surety 309k194 Right to Contribution in General 309k194(3) k. Release or Insolvency of Principal. Most  Cited Cases A surety who pays the debt is bound to prove the insolvency of the principal, in order to maintain an action against his co-surety for contribution. Bills and Notes 56 k 264 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(A) Before Delivery to or Transfer by Payee 56k257 Rights of Indorser 56k264 k. As Against Other Indorsers. Most Cited  Cases Where the first of several indorsers of a note paid it to the holder after it had been dishonored, he thereby acquired no right of action against a subsequent indorser, but only against the maker. Bills and Notes 56 k 266 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(A) Before Delivery to or Transfer by Payee 56k266 k. Contribution. Most Cited Cases Where one of several joint indorsers of a note paid it to the holder, and the amount so paid cannot be recovered by suit from the maker, the other indorsers may then be compelled to contribute. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a judgment recovered by Vernon and Blake, in an action of assumpsit which was brought by them in the court below, against Poignard. The judgment was rendered by that court in conformity to a verdict which was found by the jury, on the trial of the general issue. The question upon which the cause turns in this court, involves the correctness of a decision which was given by the court below, upon a motion for instructions to the jury, after the evidence was closed by each party. It was proved, that on the 3d of February, 1819, in the town of Louisville, T. R. West executed his promissory note, promising to pay to the order of Vernon and Blake, without defalcation, twenty-five hundred and sixty-five dollars, negotiable and payable at the office of discount and deposit of the Bank of the United States at Louisville, sixty days after date. This note was, also, proved to have been afterwards endorsed in blank, by the names of Vernon and Blake, Poignard (the plaintiff in error) and J. C. Johnston, and that the amount of the note was afterwards, on the 8th of April, 1819, paid by Vernon and Blake to Brook Hill, an officer in the United States' Bank at Louisville. There was, also, introduced and read as evidence to the jury, the following writing, to-wit: *2 "We agree to pay our equal proportions of the debt due by Thomas R. West, in the United States' Bank, due April 7th, 1819, for $2,565, whereon we are endorsers, said note being protested for non-payment." Dated, Louisville, April 7th, 1819, and signed by Vernon and Blake, J. C. Johnston and D. R. Poignard. The written agreement. No further evidence was introduced, and the question which now becomes necessary to consider, is, whether or not the court below was correct in refusing to instruct the jury, that the foregoing evidence was insufficient to support the action which was brought by Vernon and Blake. That a sufficiency was proved to show a cause of action in Vernon and Blake, can not, for a moment, be doubted. By the agreement of the 7th of April, 1819, signed by each of the endorsers, they respectively stipulated to pay their proportion of the debt which West had contracted by the note; and as neither Johnson nor Poignard appear to have done so, most indisputably, each of them became liable for his proportion of the debt, to Vernon and Blake, after the payment was made by them. (1.) The appropriate action to be brought by Vernon and Blake to recover for that liability, is, however, in the opinion of the court, covenant, and not assumpsit. By not paying his proportion of the debt, Poignard has failed to perform the stipulation of his written agreement, and, under the act of this country, placing all such writings upon the footing of sealed instruments, the action to be brought for a breach of the agreement, must be, as it should be for a breach of the stipulation of a sealed writing, covenant. (1) An agreement in writing by several endorsers of a note, to pay each their equal parts, will not support assumpsit by the first endorser, who afterwards paid the whole sum to the holder. Covenant is the remedy. (2.) We are aware, that it does not follow, universally in all cases, that no other action can be sustained, whenever covenant may be. Adjudged cases may be found, where the person sustaining the injury, has been held to have his election to bring covenant or case. The general rule is, however, to the contrary, and the present case does not, in the opinion of the court, come within the exception to that rule. It might have been otherwise, if the liability of Poignard existed independent of the writing which was executed by him and the other endorsers. In that case, the action might have been brought, either upon that original liability or upon the writing, as was decided by this court, in an analogous case, between Lucky and Rowzee, 1 Marsh. 295. (2) The exceptions to the rule, that where covenant will lie, no other action will, are cases where there is a liability, independent of the covenant--Arg. (3.) But without the aid of the writing, nothing is discovered in the record to show any liability on Poignard to make indemnity for the money advanced by Vernon and Blake. It is true, Poignard, as well as Vernon and Blake, endorsed the note of West, and that note being unpaid by West, was afterwards discharged by Vernon and Blake; but the payment so made, could not, within itself, confer upon Vernon and Blake, any action against Poignard. The only right of action which Vernon and Blake could possibly have gained by their payment, as endorsers, would be against West, the maker of the note. *3 (3) The first of several endorsers of a promissory note, who pays it, has no cause of action against a subsequent endorser--Arg. (4.) Considered in the light of joint endorsers with Poignard, they might, probably, be entitled to recover a proportion of the amount advanced, against him, if through the insolvency of West, the amount could not be collected from him; but as the money was advanced fore the payment of West's debt, the action which accrued upon that payment must be first against him, and there is nothing in the record to show that any action has been prosecuted against him, or that he is unable to pay. (4) Where one joint endorser of a promissory note, pays the whole amount to the holder, and the money can not be made by suit out of the obligor, the other endorsers may be compelled to contribute their portions--Argu. It results, therefore, that the evidence is insufficient to support the action of assumpsit, and that the court erred in not so instructing the jury. The judgment must, consequently, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Sharp. Haggin and Huston, for plaintiff; Marshall, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Poignard v. Vernon 1 T.B.Mon. 45, 17 Ky. 45, 1824 WL 1477 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
