(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 385,  10 Ky. 385 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1104 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Nicholas' Heirs and Ex'r v. Charles Jones. Apr. 26, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE BATH CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 148 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(B) Real Property and Interests Therein 162k136 Sale 162k148 k. Title and rights of purchasers. Most Cited  Cases Where a party purchases land of executors under a power given by will, he must rely on the covenants in his deed, and cannot have relief against the heirs. Executors and Administrators 162 k 148 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(B) Real Property and Interests Therein 162k136 Sale 162k148 k. Title and rights of purchasers. Most Cited  Cases Where executors conveyed land by deed of bargain and sale, and covenanted to the extent of assets to warrant and defend title, they rendered themselves personally liable to the extent of assets in their hands. Executors and Administrators 162 k 453(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k453 Judgment 162k453(1) k. Judgment by confession or default. Most Cited  Cases The failure of an executor to answer a bill for the discovery of assets is an implied admission of assets. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 24 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(A) Discovery in General 307Ak24 k. Discovery methods and procedure. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 127k22  Discovery) A complaint asking relief and a discovery is properly taken cognizance of by the chancellor, and the chancellor, having taken possession of the cause for the purpose of discovery, can properly grant the relief prayed, though the defendant, by failure to answer, fails to make the discovery sought. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: On the 18th of March, 1805, James Morrison and Joseph H. Daviess, executors of the last will and testament of George Nicholas, dec., in consideration of eighty-two pounds fifteen shillings, conveyed, by a deed of bargain and sale, to Jones, one hundred acres of land in the county of Montgomery, and thereby covenanted, to the extent of assets, to warrant and defend the title against the claim of all persons whatever. After this Jones was evicted from the land by the judgment of the Montgomery county circuit court, in a proceeding had under an adverse paramount claim. To obtain compensation Jones then exhibited his bill against James Morrison, the surviving executor of Nicholas and the heirs of Nicholas. The bill charges that Jones purchased the land from Nicholas in his lifetime, and having paid the purchase money, Nicholas' executors executed the deed warranting the title; that Jones has since been evicted from the land by a paramount claimant; that the executor has assets of the estate of Nicholas in his hands sufficient to compensate Jones for the loss of the land, but owing to the destruction of the clerk's office of the Fayette county court by fire, Jones is unable to prove the amount of assets in the hands of the executor, and asks from him a discovery thereof. The bill moreover charges that the heirs of Nicholas held, by descent from their father, estate more than sufficient to compensate Jones and calls on them to set forth the estate which they hold by descent; and after making the executor and heirs defendants the bill asks for relief, &c. *2 The process was served on Morrison, and, for his failure to answer the bill was taken for confessed against him. Some of the heirs also failed to answer and the bill was taken as confessed against them; but others of the heirs answered, denying that they held anything by descent from their ancestor and putting Jones upon the proof of every allegation of his bill. The circuit court on a final hearing pronounced a decree in favor of Jones for the amount of the consideration recited in the deed to have been given for the land, with interest thereon from the date of the deed; but to be made of the assets in the hands of the executor, or which might come to his hands, if so much there be, and if not, then of the assets in the hands of the heirs, or which might thereafter come to their hands, &c. From that decree the heirs and executor jointly appealed. The principle is not perceived on which the decree against the heirs can be sustained. The record exhibits no evidence of any contract between Jones and the ancestor, George Nicholas, dec. The only evidence of a contract, and it is that alone on which any relief can be given to Jones, is contained in the deed executed by the executors to him for the land; but that deed, so far from proving any contract between Jones and the decedent, conduces strongly to prove that the contract of sale was made with the executors, and in consideration of the sale money having been received by them, the conveyance was made to Jones It must therefore have been on the faith of the covenant of warranty contained in the deed given by the executors, that Jones purchased the land, and it is upon that covenant he must rely for compensation, and can be entitled to no relief against the heirs. On a covenant of warranty for lands sold and conveyed by executors under a power given in the will, the heirs can not be made liable. The decree must consequently be reversed; but as the cause must be remanded to the court below, it is material that we should direct what disposition should be made of the cause as to the executor in that court. Under the covenant contained in the warranty, it is perfectly clear the executor is personally liable to the extent of assets in his hands. He has made himself so liable by express stipulation, and it is not competent for the court to change the import of his covenant. Instead, therefore, of directing the amount decreed to Jones to be made out of the assets in the hands of the executor, or which may thereafter come to his hands, the court should have decreed the amount to be paid by Morrison in his individual right, unless, as is contended by his counsel, Jones should have pursued his remedy in a court of law, and not in equity. We think, however, that Jones has shown sufficient cause for resorting to a court of equity. As it was barely to the extent of assets, that the executors covenanted to warrant the title, it is obvious that, to enable Jones to recover at law, he would have to establish the amount of assets; but he alleges in his bill that the amount of asets is unknown to him and that he possesses no mean of ascertaining it, unless by a discovery from the executor. For the purpose of discovery, therefore, he properly applied to the chancellor; and having obtained possession of the cause for that purpose, it was proper for the chancellor, in a case like the present, to give relief. It is true, Morrison failed to make the discovery sought by answering the bill; but his failing to answer is an implied confession and on such a confession relief may be decreed. *3 A covenant made by an executor to warrant the extent of the assets, is obligatory on him personally to that extent; and on a prayer for a discovery, if the executor fails to answer, it is an implied admission of assets, and a decree pro confesso should pass. A complainant asking relief and a discovery, the prayer for discovery gives the chancellor jurisdiction, and in a case proper for chancery interference, the prayer for discovery brings with it the right of relief. The decree must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below and the bill there dismissed with costs as to the heirs of Nicholas; but as to the executor, a decree entered against him in his personal right for eighty-two pounds fifteen shillings, with interest at the rate of six per centum per annum from the 18th March, 1805, with costs. Bibb and Crittenden for plaintiff, Pope for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1821. Nicholas' Heirs v. Jones 3 A.K.Marsh. 385, 10 Ky. 385, 1821 WL 1104 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
