(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 257,  8 Ky. 257 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1349 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wagnon and Others v. Henry Clay. May 28, 1817. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 16 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185III Promises to Answer for Debt, Default or Miscarriage of Another 185k16 k. Pre-Existing Liability of Promisor. Most Cited Cases Where A., a partner of B., gives a note in the name of the partners, but not for a partnership transaction, a subsequent verbal promise by B. to pay the note is void under the statute of frauds. Partnership 289 k 146(2) 289 Partnership 289IV Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 289IV(A) Representation of Firm by Partner 289k146 Negotiable Instruments 289k146(2) k. For Firm Debt. Most Cited  Cases A partner has no right to bind his copartner by a note, except in a partnership transaction. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: To recover the amount of a note purporting to have been executed the 28th May, 1811, by John P. Wagnon, Montgomery and John Bell, this action was brought by Clay, in the court below, and on the trial of the general issue, he obtained a verdict and judgment for the amount of the note, interest and cost. Various questions were made in the progress of the trial, but as the whole of the evidence is spread upon the record by bill of exceptions, we shall confine ourselves to the enquiry whether the verdict is not contrary to evidence? If every fact is admitted, which the evidence in any respect conduces to prove, the principle is not perceived upon which Montgomery Bell can be subjected to this action. The note is proven to have been executed by Wagnon, the principal, and the name of both the Bells, in the absence of Montgomery, signed by John, as sureties, but as there is a total absence of proof in relation to an authority from Montgomery to John to sign his name, the note when given was clearly not binding upon Montgomery. It is true, at the time the note was executed, John and Montgomery are proven to have been partners in a rope walk and store, but as the note in question was signed by John as surety for Wagnon, and not on account of the partnership transaction, John did not in consequence of the partnership, derive any authority to bind Montgomery. A partner has no right to bind his co-partner in a note, except in a partnership transaction. But it is moreover proven that Montgomery, after the note was executed, and after being advised he was not bound by it, gave assurances to Clay he would pay it, and hence it is contended, that by that assurance he has subjected himself to the action upon the note. The doctrine contended for can not, however, be admitted to prevail; for if the note was void as to Montgomery in the first instance, any subsequent assurance by him as it would be undertaking to pay the debt of another, would, unless made in writing, be against the obvious provisions of the statute of frauds, and as such would impose no liability on Montgomery. But if the assurance was made in writing, the writing itself would then form the ground of liability, and although an action might be sustained upon it, Montgomery would not thereby be subjected to an action upon the original note. *2 A subsequent verbal promise to pay such note is void under the statute of frauds. If such subsequent promise was in writing, it should have been declared on, and not the original note. Whether, therefore, the assurance proven to have been made by Montgomery to the defendant in error, was either by parol or in writing, the jury erred in finding against him and consequently a new trial ought to have been awarded. The judgment must therefore be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and a new trial had, not inconsistent with this opinion. The defendant in error, on the rendition of the foregoing opinion, prayed for and procured a rehearing of the cause, and it came on to be reargued on the 15th of June, 1818, when Judge Owsley delivered the following opinion of the court:-- Upon a review of the opinion formerly delivered in this case, we are still satisfied, that John Bell, merely as partner, derived no authority to bind Montgomery as surety for Wagnon in the note to Clay; but upon further consideration, we are inclined to the opinion that the evidence conduces, in some measure, to prove that John was authorized by Montgomery to subscribe his name to the note; and as the jury was the proper judges of the weight of the evidence, the court below properly refused to instruct them to find as in case of a nonsuit, and moreover, as the verdict accords with the justice of the case, decided correctly in refusing to award a new trial. The former opinion and judgment of this court reversing the judgment of the court below, must therefore be set aside, and the judgment of that court affirmed with cost and damages. Ky.App. 1817. Wagnon v. Clay 1 A.K.Marsh. 257, 8 Ky. 257, 1818 WL 1349 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
