(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 226,  19 Ky. 226 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1279 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Buford, &c. v. Burdett. May 26, 1826. *1 Innterest. Amendments. Error. Release. Costs. ERROR TO THE GARRARD CIRCUIT; JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 166 30 Appeal and Error 30IV Right of Review 30IV(B) Estoppel, Waiver, or Agreements Affecting Right 30k166 k. Release of Errors. Most Cited  Cases An error in a judgment, prejudicial to a defendant, cannot be cured by a release of the plaintiff, entered on the record at a subsequent term. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. The judgment to which this writ of error is prosecuted, except as to the interest, is in strict conformity to the note upon which the original action in the circuit court was founded, but the interest is made, by the judgment, to commence the first of August, 1821, and to continue to run until the debt is paid, whereas, by the stipulations of the note, interest was not to commence running until the first of September of that year. As respects the time when the interest is made, to begin to run, therefore, the judgment is unquestionably erroneous. Error in the judgment as to the day on which the interest commenced. This error appears to have been discovered by Burdett after the term of the court at which the judgment was rendered had elapsed, and, at a subsequent term, he applied to the court and obtained the following order. Order of court at the next term permitting plaintiff to release the excessive interest. "On motion of the plaintiff leave is given him to release one month's interest on the judgment rendered in his favor against the defendants, at the September term of this court, in the year 1822, it appearing that there was an error in entering said judgment." Query--May an error in a judgment on a specialty as to the day of the commencement of interest be amended at a subsequent term. What would have been the effect of this order if it had purported to be an amendment of the error in the judgment as to the interest, is unnecessary now to be considered; for be that as it may, it is perfectly clear, that the order as made can not be interpreted into an amendment of the error. Notwithstanding the order, the judgment remains precisely as it was originally entered, and although Burdett was by the order permitted to release the error, any release which might be afterwards made by him could have no more effect upon the error in the judgment than would the execution of a release without the order. An order in such case permitting plaintiff to release the erroneous interest has itself no effect, nor can it give any additional operation to a release executed in pursuance thereof. And it has been repeatedly held that no error in a judgment prejudicial to a defendant can be cured by a release of the plaintiff. It follows, therefore, that although a release may have been executed by Burdett under the order, neither the release nor order can have removed or corrected the error in the judgment--and that, of course the judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and a judgment there entered in conformity with the principles of this opinion. *2 An error in a judgment prejudicial to a defendant can not be cured by a release of the plaintiff. Caperton, for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Buford v. Burdett 3 T.B.Mon. 226, 19 Ky. 226, 1826 WL 1279 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
