(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 125,  21 Ky. 125 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1516 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bruce v. Dyall. Jun. 8, 1827. *1 Sheriff's Return. Execution. Substitution. APPEAL FROM THE FLEMING CIRCUIT; ADAM BEATTY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 123 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k123 k. Failure to Make Return. Most Cited Cases Sickness will excuse the sheriff for not returning an execution in time. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 123 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k123 k. Failure to Make Return. Most Cited Cases The issuing of a second execution, after the sheriff has failed to return the first for 30 days, does not affect the sheriff's liability for the amount of the execution and damages for failure to return the first execution. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 125(1) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k125 Amercement and Other Summary Remedies Against Officers 353k125(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Though the issuing of a second execution, after a sheriff has failed to return the first within the time prescribed, does not affect the liability of the sheriff for damages in prosceedings by motion against him, he is entitled to credit for the amount made on the subsequent execution in reduction of his liability. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 125(2) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k125 Amercement and Other Summary Remedies Against Officers 353k125(2) k. Trial or Hearing, Judgment, and Review. Most  Cited Cases In a summary proceeding against a sheriff for failure to return an execution, a return by such sheriff, stating an excuse for not performing his duty, is not admissible. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. On the 26th of September, 1821, there issued from the clerk's office of the Fleming circuit court, an execution in favor of George W. Bruce, against the estate of Henry Halbert, for six hundred and fifty-six dollars damages, and sixty-four dollars and fourteen cents cost, directed to the sheriff of Lewis county, and returnable on the Saturday succeeding the fourth Monday in November next after the date of the execution. Upon that execution there is the following endorsement, to wit: "Came to hand the 29th of October, 1821, and not executed in consequence of sickness. John Dyall, S. L. C." Execution and sheriff's return. On the 11th of May, 1822, Bruce, in whose favor the execution issued drew up a notice, in which he informed Dyall, the sheriff, that he would move the circuit court of Fleming, on the second day of the next Fleming circuit court, thereafter, for a judgment against him for the amount of the execution and thirty per centum damages thereon, for his having failed to return the execution to the office from whence it emanated, within thirty days after the day to which the execution was returnable. *2 Notice of the motion. The notice was regularly served upon Dyall, and he having appeared and contested the recovery against him, the court rendered judgment in his favor against Bruce. Decision of the circuit court. It is not denied but what the execution was not returned by Dyall until after the lapse of more than thirty days, from the day to which it was returnable; but in argument it was contended that Dyall, on the trial of the motion, showed a sufficient excuse for his failure to make the return, and hence it was insisted that the court was correct in rendering judgment against Bruce. If in consequence of sickness, Dyall had been unable to return the execution within the time prescribed by the act under which the motion of Bruce was made, we should be inclined to the opinion that his failure to make the return could not subject him to the penalties of the act. When the sheriff is prevented from returning an execution in time, by sickness, he may not be liable to the motion and damages imposed by the act. But to authorize the judgment which was rendered in his favor on that ground, proof of his sickness should have been made to the court, on the trial of the motion. No evidence going to establish the fact of his sickness, however, was produced. The return made by Dyall upon the execution was, it is true, read upon the trial, and in that return his sickness is assigned as the cause of his not having levied the execution in due time; but it surely will not be seriously contended by any one, that a suggestion of the sort by an officer in his return, forms any evidence for him in a proceeding to charge him for neglecting to perform the duties of his office. But, in such case, the statement of the cause of the failure to return the execution in time, made by the sheriff in his return after the thirty days, is no evidence for him. Whether or not the money be made by a sheriff under an execution, it is incumbent upon him to return the truth of the case, but he is not required to return any excuse which he may have for not performing the duties of his office, and if he should do so, it would be contrary to well established principles to allow the return made by himself, to be evidence of the fact returned in his favor. Sheriff can not make evidence for himself by stating in his return an excuse for not performing his duty. But it is not upon the return of the sheriff that reliance was made in argument to support the judgment of the circuit court. It was proved that whilst the execution was in the hands of the sheriff, but after the return day thereof, a letter was addressed to Dyall, by Bruce, in which Bruce complains of the negligence of Dyall in not having performed his duty in relation to the execution, and admonishing him to make return of the execution which he then held, and to take out another and proceed to collect the money. The letter bears date the 8th of December, 1821, and it was proved to have been sent by Bruce to Dyall, but the precise day when Dyall received it does not distinctly appear. It was, also proved that the execution was returned by Dyall to the office of the clerk from whence it issued, on the 23rd day of January, 1822, and that on the same day another execution was issued by the clerk in favor of Bruce, against the estate of Halbert, for the same amount, and directed also to the sheriff of Lewis county. This latter execution was levied by Dyall upon two tracts of land, the property of Halbert; one of which was sold by Dyall to Bruce, at public auction, at the price of three hundred dollars and the balance of the amount for which the execution issued, was replevied by Halbert. There was no evidence going to prove that any objections to the sale were made by Bruce, or that any suggestions were made by him at the time, that the execution had issued without his authority. It was upon these facts that the court below decreed that Dyall was excused for failing to return the execution within the time prescribed by the act, and it is upon the same facts that the judgment of that court was attempted in argument to be sustained. *3 The principle is not however discerned, upon which the decision of the court can be sustained. There is evidently nothing in the letter which was addressed by Bruce to Dyall, from which anything favorable to Dyall can be inferred. The letter must, in all reasonable probability, have been received by Dyall sufficiently soon to have enabled him to return the execution which first issued and which was then in his hands, before thirty days after the return day, and so far from suggesting a willingness on the part of Bruce, that Dyall might hold up the execution until after the thirty days should pass away, the letter complains of the delay which had then taken place ,and warns Dyall not further to neglect his duty in making the return. Instead, therefore, of authorizing Dyall to hold up the execution, the letter furnishes strong evidence of Dyall's having been informed by Bruce that he might expect no favor if he should neglect speedily and according to law to return the execution. Excuse for not returning the execution, overruled. It is true that after the execution was returned, another issued, and that at a sale made by that latter execution, Bruce purchased a tract of land at the price of three hundred dollars. But the execution under which that sale was made did not issue until after Dyall, by his failure to return the first execution had become liable for the amount of the execution and damages, and we apprehend that, by the after conduct of Bruce in making the purchase of the land, Dyall was not absolved from that liability. Issuing a second execution, after sheriff has failed to return the first for thirty days, does not affect the liability of the sheriff to the motion, and thirty per cent. damages under the act. By that purchase, Bruce received three hundred dollars of his demand, and after having received that much he ought not to be allowed again to recover it from any one. For the amount of Bruce's purchase, therefore, Dyall should have a deduction from his pre-existing liability, but beyond that, no principle is perceived upon which the conduct of Bruce can be admitted to operate as a discharge. But the sheriff shall have credit for the amount made on the subsequent execution by a sale before the motion made. It has heretofore been decided by this court, (1 Littell R. 137,) that the sheriff against whom the amount of an execution has been recovered by the plaintiff, for his not having returned it within the time prescribed by law, is entitled to the beneficial interest in the demand against the defendant in the execution, and if so, the sheriff, after a recovery against him, should be allowed to use the name of the plaintiff in the execution, for the purpose of making the money out of the estate of the defendant. As Dyall would therefore, have been at liberty to use the name of Bruce to make the money out of the estate of Halbert, if a recovery had been had by Bruce against him, for not making due return of the first execution, the conduct of Bruce at the sale made under the execution which issued after Dyall had, by failing to return the first execution, subjected himself to liability, though that conduct be construed to be an implied approval of the sale by Bruce, proves nothng incompatible with the right of Bruce still to pursue the liability of Dyall, for the residue of his demand not satisfied by his purchase at the sale. At most, Bruce, by purchasing at the sale, can only be understood to have approved the conduct of Dyall in using his name to make the money out of the estate of Halbert, so as thereby to enable Dyall, by raising the money to discharge the amount for which, by his neglect in not returning the first execution, he had become liable. *4 Where the amount of an execution is recovered against a sheriff, for failing to return it in time, he shall have the plaintiff's interest in the demand, and may use the plaintiff's name to enforce it. The court ought not, therefore, to have given judgment against Bruce. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and judgment there entered in favor of Bruce, in conformity with the principles of this opinion. Chief Justice Bibb did not sit in this case. Haggin and Loughborough, for appellant; Crittenden for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Bruce v. Dyall 5 T.B.Mon. 125, 21 Ky. 125, 1827 WL 1516 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
