(Cite as: 4 Litt. 17,  14 Ky. 17 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1224 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Pyle, &c. v. Cravens. Oct. 8, 1823. *1 FROM THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. BENJAMIN SHACKLEFORD SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Parent and Child 285 k 8 285 Parent and Child 285k8 k. Possession and control of property of child. Most Cited Cases An assignment by a father of a claim to land belonging to an infant son is void, even if made under a power of attorney from the son to the father. Process 313 k 106 313 Process 313II Service 313II(C) Publication or Other Notice 313k102 Mode and Sufficiency of Publication 313k106 k. Time and number of publications. Most Cited  Cases Time 378 k 5 378 Time 378k5 k. Months. Most Cited Cases An order of publication against absent defendants should be published two calendar months.  A publication for eight weeks only is insufficient. Equity 150 k 132 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(A) Original Bill 150k132 k. Introduction or statement as to parties. Most  Cited Cases In proceeding against heirs whose names are unknown, an affidavit of the fact must be filed in the clerk's office. It is not enough to allege it in the bill. Husband and Wife 205 k 207 205 Husband and Wife 205VI Actions 205k206 Rights of Action by Husband or Wife or Both 205k207 k. In general. Most Cited Cases A husband ought not to have a decree for a conveyance of an equitable interest of the wife in lands in a suit in which the wife is defendant, and against whom the husband's bill is taken for confessed;  but the suit should be brought in the name of husband and wife, and the title be decreed to be conveyed to the wife, and not to the husband. Infants 211 k 1034 211 Infants 211II Status, Capacities, and Disabilities 211II(B) Rights, Capacities, and Disabilities 211k1034 k. Capacity to appoint agent, trustee, or attorney.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 211k5) A letter of attorney given by an infant is void. CRITTENDEN for appellant; no attorney for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. William Pyle, jr. the present appellant, claiming title to the land in contest under a patent which issued in his own name for four hundred acres, brought an action of ejectment against the appellee, Jeremiah Cravens, and recovered judgment at law. An order of publication against absent defendants ought to be for two months, instead of eight weeks, and ought to be published two calendar months. Cravens then exhibited his bill in equity, in which he sets up an alleged equity, asks and obtains an injunction against the judgment at law, and prays that on a final hearing the title of Pyle may be decreed to him, and general relief, &c. *2 It appears that the patent issued to the appellant, William Pyle, jun. upon a survey made in his name in virtue of a county court certificate for four hundred acres of land, which appears also to have been granted to him. Who ought to be parties to a suit in chancery. Cravens in his bill attempts to derive the superior equity to the land, through the same certificate and survey, as the assignee of Margaret Cravens, who was the assignee of Abigail Cravens, by whom it was registered, and who was the assignee of Robert Cravens, who was the assignee of David Faris, to whom it had been assigned by Doctor William Pyle, the father of the appellant, and to whom, and not to the appellant, the bill alleges the certificate was granted, and in whose name the survey was made. But the bill charges that after the certificate of survey had been registered by Abigail Cravens, the said Doctor William Pyle, and his son William Pyle, intending to defraud the said Abigail and her assignees out of the land, by falsely and deceitfully representing to the register that the certificate had been granted, and the survey made in the name of the son, William, obtained a grant in his name. Where a wife has such an equitable interest in lands as will entitle her to a decree for a conveyance, the suit ought to be brought in the name of husband and wife; but the de cree to be for a conveyance to her only. By an assignment made by a father, of an inchoate title to land belonging to his infant son, the interest of the son is not transferred or affected. Each of the assignors through whom Cravens asserts his equity, are made defendants; and by an amendment to his bill, he suggests that Margaret Cravens, by whom the certificate of survey had been assigned to him, was, at the time of making the assignment, his wife, and that when the assignment was made by Abigail Cravens, she was the wife of____ Hays, who had intermarried with her after she had obtained the assignment, and that the assignment was made in her name of Abigail Cravens, merely that it might appear regularly done. In his amended bill, Cravens also in substance repeats the statements contained in his original bill, as to the person to whom the certificate issued; but observes, if in that he should be mistaken, and the certificate should turn out to have issued in the name of the appellant, William Pyle, that at the time it issued the said William was an infant of tender years, and that the certificate was obtained by his father, (Doctor Pyle), for his own benefit; and charges the father and son with having fraudulently united in selling the certificate and survey, and at the same time intending to assert the claim thereafter, in the name of the son. The amended bill also contains a prayer for relief against the father, in case a decree for the land can not be obtained, &c. If it is done under a power of attorney from the infant to his father, it is equally void, as if done without any colour of authority. *3 A letter of attorney given by an infant, is absolutely void. The answer of the appellant denies that the certificate issued to his father; alleges that he was the original grantee of the claim, and has perfected the title in his own name; that he has never either parted with his claim, or authorized any other person to do so for him. He admits that he was a youth of tender years, under the age of twenty-one, when the certificate was granted by the county court; but charges that he assisted in making the improvement in virtue whereof the grant was made to him. He denies having any knowledge of the equity set up by Cravens, denies fraud, and requires proof of the allegations made in the bill, &c. William Pyle, sen. answers, alleging that the certificate was granted to his son, and not to him. He admits, that he sold the certificate and made the assignment to Faris; but alleges that he did so hoping that his son, on arriving at full age, would confirm the sale; and charges, that at the time Faris purchased, he knew that his son, William Pyle, jun. was the rightful owner, and received from him, the said William, sen. a bond conditioned to repay the purchase money only, in case the land should be taken by any other claim. He denies all fraud, &c. An order of publication was made against Robert Cravens and David Faris, and by the printer's certificate that order appears to have been inserted in the papers for eight weeks. Neither Abigail Hays, late Abigail Cravens, nor Margaret Cravens, answered; but the bill as to them and Robert Cravens and Faris, was taken for confessed. The court below, on a final hearing, pronounced a decree ordering both William Pyle, sen. and William Pyle. jr. to convey the land in contest by a special warranty deed to Jeremiah Cravens, and directing them to pay costs. The cause was unquestionably not in proper state of preparation for hearing, when the decree was pronounced by the court below. The order of publication which was made against Faris, and Robert Cravens, as absent defendants, instead of directing publication to be made eight weeks, ought to have required a publication for two months; and if such had been the requisition of the order, instead of being (as it appears to have been) published eight weeks, there should have been a publication for two calendar months. It is moreover apparent, that all the proper parties were not before the court. Cravens asserts his equity through an assignment of the defendant, Abigail Hays, and as she appears to be a feme covert, in conjunction with her, Cravens ought to have made her husband a party to his suit. But were there no irregularity in the preparation of the cause, the decree certainly presents a very novel and singular aspect, in decreeing to Cravens the benefit of a claim to land derived by contract with his wife, in a suit to which his wife is a defendant, and against whom the husband's bill is taken for confessed. Under the contract and assignment of his wife, Cravens most indisputably gained no beneficial interest, and ought not to have had a decree for a conveyance, even if before that assignment, his wife possessed such an equity in the land as might have been enforced by the decree of a court of equity. *4 If she possessed such an interest, the suit ought to have been brought conjointly in the name of the husband and wife; and in such a suit, the decree ought to be for the title to be conveyed to her, and not to her husband. As the cause must be remanded to the court below for further proceedings, it may not be improper, however, to remark that from any thing contained in the present record, we are incapable of perceiving any foundation for an equitable claim to the land, either in Cravens or his wife. The proof is abundantly satisfactory to show, that the original certificate was granted by the county court to the appellant, William Pyle, jr. and not to his father; and from the assignment to Faris by the father, which appears to have been made as agent for his son, there can be no reasonable cause to doubt, but that both Faris and the father, at the time of contracting, understood the claim of right to belong to the son. The father may possibly have employed improper means to induce Faris to believe that he possessed competent authority to transfer the interest of his son; but any improper conduct of that sort by the father, can never be the means of depriving his son, who at the time was a minor, of his real estate. Were it even conceded (but which by the by is not proved) that the son had executed a power of attorney to the father, authorizing him to dispose of his claim, the sale of the father to Faris, according to the established principles of law, could not be enforced against the son. Nor would the case be different, if such a power had been given by the son for the purpose of collusion; for as the son was an infant, any warrant of attorney which he may have given, is absolutely void, and though known to be invalid by the infant when given by him, and though given for the purpose of collusion, it is said that it can not be confirmed by the court--1 Fonb. Eq. 75, n. z. We are aware that it has been said, that infants are as much bound by frauds, of which they are conusant, as adults; but that rule has been held to apply only to such acts as are voidable by the infant, and not to such as the giving of warrants of attorney, which are absolutely void--Ibid. The decree must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Pyle v. Cravens 4 Litt. 17, 14 Ky. 17, 1823 WL 1224 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
