(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 349,  8 Ky. 349 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1400 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robert Burnes v. Walthal Burton, Adm'r. Oct. 18, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 456(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k456 Costs 162k456(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases A defendant who is an administrator is entitled to costs in an action wherein the plea of "fully administered" has been found for him, and a judgment quando rendered. Executors and Administrators 162 k 513(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XI Accounting and Settlement 162XI(E) Stating, Settling, Opening, and Review 162k512 Operation and Effect 162k513 In  General 162k513(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The settlement of an administration account by the county court is prima facie correct. Executors and Administrators 162 k 516(7) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XI Accounting and Settlement 162XI(E) Stating, Settling, Opening, and Review 162k516 Actions to Open or Set Aside  Settlement 162k516(7) k. Trial and Determination. Most Cited  Cases The court, and not the jury, is the proper judge as to whether fraud appeared on the face of an administration account. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: For the purpose of recovering a debt, which had been contracted by the defendant's intestate, the plaintiff brought his action against the defendant in error in the court below. The defendant pleaded two pleas: by the first, he alleged that he had fully administered all the goods, &c. which had come to his hands to be administered; and by the second, he alleged that he had no assets belonging to the estate of the intestate in his hands, to be administered. Issues being taken to each of these pleas, a jury was called, and having heard the evidence, found upon both pleas for the defendant; whereupon, the court rendered judgment in favor of the defendant for his cost expended in the defense, but moreover gave judgment in favor of the plaintiff, for his debt and cost, to be made out of assets which might thereafter come to the hands of the defendant to be administered. The plaintiff, however, supposing that the court had erred in the judgment rendered against him for cost, brought this writ of error, and has assigned several errors, questioning as well the correctness of the decisions of the court in relation to the trial of those issues, as the propriety of giving judgment against him for the cost. On a plea of plene administravit the plaintiff may take judgment for his debt, to be paid when assets fall; but if he takes issue on the plea, and it is found against him he shall pay costs, but yet have judgment to be paid when assets fall. Assuming no error to exist in the trial of those issues, there can be no doubt but that the plaintiff was properly subjected to the cost; for, as upon those pleas being filed, instead of taking judgment, as he might regularly have done, for his debt to be satisfied out of assets which might thereafter come to the hands of the defendant, the plaintiff having thought proper, by traversing those pleas to cause a trial of the issues, he should, most indisputably, upon their being found against him, be made subject to cost. *2 An administration account settled by the county court is prima facie evidence of the administrator, though perhaps not conclusive. The courts will judge if frauds appear on the face of such settlement. And with respect to the decision of the court in relation to the trial of those issues, we are unable to perceive any solid objection. It certainly cannot have been irregular, for the purpose of proving the defendant had fully administered the estate to allow him to introduce the account of his administration settled by the county court. For although such a settlement may not be conclusive, yet whether made before o?? after the commencement of the action by the plaintiff, as it was done by a court of competent jurisdiction, it should be received as prima facie correct. Nor can the court have erred in refusing to permit the counsel for the plaintiff to endeavor, by argument, to prove to the jury, that the settlement with the court was fraudulent and entitled to no weight. For as the fraud was attempted to be deduced from the face of the settlement, the weight and legal operation of which the court was competent to decide, it was certainly proper, when, from the settlement no fraud could fairly be inferred, for the court, not to permit their time to be improperly consumed, by an attempt to prevert the just import of the settlement. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Littell for plaintiff, Pope for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1818. Burnes v. Burton 1 A.K.Marsh. 349, 8 Ky. 349, 1818 WL 1400 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
