(Cite as: 3 Bibb 364,  6 Ky. 364 (Ky.),  1814 WL 792 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Dougherty v. Lewellen and Stewart. Jul. 8, 1814. West Headnotes Covenant, Action Of 107 k 1 107 Covenant, Action Of 107k1 k. Nature and scope of remedy. Most Cited Cases Covenant lies on the condition of an injunction bond. Injunction 212 k 1684 212 Injunction 212VI Bonds and Other Security 212VI(C) Actions on Bonds 212k1684 k. Conditions precedent. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 212k244) An injunction was granted restraining a plaintiff from removing defendant from the possession of land. The bond provided that, if defendant "shall be cast in the said suit," the obligors would pay the costs and "as much rent as the lot and premises in the bill mentioned shall be found to be worth per annum."  Held, that it is not necessary to ascertain the value of such rents in a previous suit before an action can be brought on the bond for its nonpayment. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 LEWELLEN obtained from the Jefferson Circuit Court an order for an injunction against Dougherty, upon his executing bond with security. He and Stewart his security accordingly executed a bond to Dougherty with the following condition thereunder written, viz: "The condition of the above obligation is such, that whereas the above bound Samuel Lewellen did on the 22d inst. apply for and obtain from the Jefferson Circuit Court, on bill filed, an injunction in chancery against the above named William Dougherty, to restrain and prevent him (except by an ejectment in the said Circuit Court) from removing the said Lewellen from the possession of two and a half acres of land, on which he lives, near Louisville, until his complaint can be heard in equity. Now, therefore, in case the said Samuel Lewellen shall be cast in the said suit of the above bound Lewellen, or either of them or their or either of their heirs, executors or administrators, shall pay the said Dougherty such costs as shall be adjudged to him in said suit, and pay him as much rent as the lot and premises in the bill mentioned shall be found to be worth per annum, then the above obligation to be void," etc. Covenant lies on the condition of an obligation. On obligation "to pay such rents as shall be found due, in case the obligor be cast in an injunction," in covenant it is not necessary to aver that any rents had been found due, nor to aver the value of the rents due; but they are to be ascertained and found in damages in the action of covenant. The injunction being dissolved, and Lewellen being cast in the suit in chancery, as alleged by Dougherty, this suit in covenant was brought upon the condition. The defendants in the action demurred to the declaration and judgment was awarded thereon against Dougherty; from which this appeal has been prosecuted. Two questions are made for the decision of this Court. 1. Can an action of covenant be maintained on the conditon of the bond? And if it can, 2d. Should the value of the rents be ascertained by a previous suit, before a breach can be regularly assigned in its non-payment. The first question was in effect decided by this Court in the case of Kennedy v. Kennedy, (vol. 2, 464). In that case it was held that covenant may be maintained on the collateral condition of an ordinary bond. In principle there exists no difference between that case and the present; and it is impossible to perceive a reason for any difference. We are of opinion, therefore, covenant can be maintained on the condition. A decision of the other question depends on the construction of the condition. Were the finding of the value of the rents considered a condition precedent to Dougherty's right to demand the rent, it would be admitted the value should have been ascertained before the assignment of a breach could regularly be made of its non-payment. We are however of opinion the fair import of the whole condition taken together, does not justify such a construction; but that Dougherty's right to demand payment accrued upon his succeeding in the suit in chancery, and the expressions "to pay so much rent as the lot should be found to be worth," were intended to regulate the amount payable in the event of Dougherty's success in the suit, and that the amount thereof was not necessary to be ascertained by a previous suit before an action can be maintained on the condition of the bond. *2 The judgment of the Court below sustaining the demurrer to the declaration is therefore erroneous and must be reversed, the cause remanded to that Court and the defendant permitted to withdraw his demurrer and plead, should he apply for leave to do so, and such other and farther proceedings there had as may be proper to a determination of the cause. The appellant must recover his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1814. Dougherty v. Lewellen 3 Bibb 364, 6 Ky. 364, 1814 WL 792 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
