(Cite as: 3 Bibb 177,  6 Ky. 177 (Ky.),  1813 WL 637 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Samuel Estill v. Robert Miller and Benj. Estill, Benj. Estill and Robert Miller v. Samuel Estill. Oct. 9, 1813. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 256(1) 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(C) Setting Aside 161k256 Actions to Set Aside Sale 161k256(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where one has purchased under an execution for the use of the person whose property was seized, or was guilty of fraud in procuring the sale, equity will order restoration of the property so purchased. Trusts 390 k 95 390 Trusts 390I Creation, Existence, and Validity 390I(C) Constructive Trusts 390k95 k. Fraud or Other Wrong in Acquisition of Property  in General. Most Cited Cases A purchaser of property under execution, for the use of the person against whom the execution issued and at his request, or who fraudulently pulls down the advertisements, whereby the property is sold to him at an undervaluation, is a trustee of the property. Trusts 390 k 236 390 Trusts 390IV Management and Disposal of Trust Property 390k236 k. Reimbursement and Indemnity to Trustee. Most Cited Cases A purchaser under execution for the use of the person against whom the execution issued at his request, on filing an account as trustee, is entitled to be reimbursed the money which he paid, with interest. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases Where a purchase is made from a wife, without the husband's authority, whether the contract is binding or not, is a question of law, and equity will not relieve. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 DURING the absence of Samuel Estill from Kentucky, Benjamin Estill purchased from William M. Williams and George Hubbard the benefit of two judgments and executions, to the amount of about L90, which remained due them from said Samuel. Benjamin Estill caused sales to be made under the executions, and actually sold and purchased himself seven of Samuel Estill's negroes, and various other property. Jane Estill, the wife of Samuel, during his absence also sold to Benjamin Estill a negro woman, named Viney, and her child, Rhody; which last described negroes came to the possession of Robert Miller by purchase from Benjamin Estill. After the return of Samuel Estill, he exhibited his bill against Benjamin Estill and Robert Miller for the negroes. He charges that the purchase of the executions from Williams and Hubbard, and that of the negroes thereunder, was made by Benjamin Estill, as agent, for his benefit, and urder an agreement with his wife during his absence: that Benjamin Estill was to be paid for his services as agent; and that upon his return he offered to repay Benjamin the money advanced by him for the purchase, and compensate him for his agency, and demanded a return of the negroes; but Benjamin refused. He also alleges that his wife sold the negro, Viney, and her child, Rhody, without any authority from him and against his will and consent. He exhibits an account against Benjamin Estill and prays an adjustment thereof, and that the negroes which were purchased under the executions may be restored to him by Benjamin Estill, and those purchased from his wife and in the possession of Robert Miller be restored by him. He prays general relief. If one purchases slaves under execution, for the use of the person against whom the execution issued and at his request or fraudulently pulls down the advertisements, whereby the property is sold to him at an undervalue, his purchase gives him no absolute right, but he is the trustee, and shall account for the hire; he to be reimbursed money paid with interest. If B purchases slaves of the wife of S without authority given by S to his wife to sell, the remedy to recover the slaves is at law, and not in chancery. Benjamin Estill by his answer admits the wife of Samuel Estill, when she was about going to the State of Virginia to see her husband, requested him if the negroes should be sold under the executions that he would buy them, and that she might be permitted to redeem them by paying the money advanced and interest, on her return from Virginia: but he denies that she applied to him to act as agent, or agreed to pay him for his agency. He alleges he purchased the executions on his own account, and that at the sale he did purchase with his own money and on his own account the negroes and other personal property. He further charges, that having paid other debts due by Samuel Estill, at the request of his wife, and said Estill being indebted to him on other accounts, he did purchase of her the negro Viney and her child, for the purpose of discharging the debts of said Samuel. He alleges that Samuel Estill on his return home, assented to the purchase of the negroes from his wife. He exhibits an account of debts owing by Samuel Estill and paid by him. He denies fraud, etc. *2 Robert Miller by his answer says his father purchased the negroes Viney and her child from Benjamin Estill, for a fair and full price, without notice, etc., and gave them to him. He denies all fraud, etc. On a hearing of the cause the Court below decreed the negroes purchased under the executions to be restored by Benjamin Estill, and the negro Viney and her increase to be restored by Robert Miller, etc.; from which decree both parties prosecuted appeals. Two points are presented for determination in this cause--1. Whether Samuel Estill is entitled to relief for the negroes? 2. Ought compensation for hire have been decreed? The first point divides itself into two inquiries: first, as to the negroes purchased under the executions; seconly, as to the negro Viney and her increase, purchased of Samuel Estill's wife. That Benjamin Estill acquired no absolute property in the negroes purchased under the executions, we think evident. The evidence satisfactorily proves he made the purchase for the use and benefit of Samuel Estill, at the request of his wife: or, was the purchase not made for that purpose, Benjamin Estill must have been guilty of a fraud. For it is obvious from his confession to Wallace Estill, and other circumstances detailed in evidence, that the advertisement of the sale was taken down by his procurement, by which means but few persons attended the sale, and the negroes sold for much less than their real value. Whether, therefore, Benjamin Estill purchased the negroes for the use of Samuel Estill, or was guilty of a fraud in procuring the sale, and purchased for his own benefit, in either point of view he has not acquired an absolute property in the negroes, and Samuel Estill is entitled to relief. The Court, therefore, decreed correctly in ordering the negroes purchased under those executions to be restored. As to Viney and her increase, purchased of Samuel Estill's wife, we can perceive no ground for relief in a Court of Equity: for if the purchase was made, as is alleged, without authority from the husband, it cannot bind him, unless by his subsequent acts he has confirmed the sale. Whether, however, the contract is or is not binding, is a question purely legal, and properly cognizable at law; and no circumstances exist in the present case which seem to demand the aid of a Court of Equity. So much of the decree, therefore, as ordered the negroes Viney and her increase to be restored, is erroneous. It remains to be determined whether Benjamin Estill should make compensation for the hire of the negroes to be restored. We can perceive no just objection against a decree for compensation: for if he did not acquire a right to the negroes under his purchase, he must be considered as holding them in trust for Samuel Estill, and consequently should account for their services during the time he has had them in possession. But as Benjamin Estill has advanced money for Samuel Estill, in paying his debts, he should be repaid those sums, with legal interest thereon until they are paid. *3 The decree must be reversed, the cause remanded, and a decree entered according to the principles of this decree. Each party to pay their own costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1813. Estill v. Miller 3 Bibb 177, 6 Ky. 177, 1813 WL 637 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
