(Cite as: 4 Bibb 173,  7 Ky. 173 (Ky.),  1815 WL 708 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Matthews v. Davis and wife. Oct. 4, 1815. *1 In slander for charging the plaintiff with adultery with J. S. the defendant cannot plead, or give in evidence in mitigation of damages, adultery with others. Upon exception to opinion of the Court for refusing a new trial moved on the ground that the verdict is against evidence, the whole of the evidence should be stated, otherwise the verdict will not be disturbed. West Headnotes Libel and Slander 237 k 7(17) 237 Libel and Slander 237I Words and Acts Actionable, and Liability Therefor 237k7 Words Imputing Crime and Immorality 237k7(17) k. Adultery. Most Cited Cases Words importing a charge of adultery, spoken since the passage of the act of 1812 regulating proceedings in civil cases, are actionable. Libel and Slander 237 k 111 237 Libel and Slander 237IV Actions 237IV(C) Evidence 237k102 Admissibility 237k111 k. Mitigation. Most Cited  Cases In slander for charging the plaintiff with adultery with J. S., the defendant cannot plead or give in evidence, in mitigation of damages, adultery with others. Appeal and Error 30 k 706(4) 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(M) Questions Presented for Review 30k706 Grounds for Arrest of Judgment, New Trial, or  Rehearing 30k706(4) k. Necessity of Setting Forth Evidence at Trial  in General. Most Cited Cases A judgment granting or refusing a new trial because the verdict was not sustained by the evidence will not be reviewed unless the record contains the evidence given below. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE appellees brought this action in the Court below, for slanderous words spoken of Mrs. Davis. The trial was had in that Court on an issue to a plea of justification; and verdict and judgment obtained by the appellees. From this judgment the appellant has appealed to this Court, and assigned for error--1. That the words laid in the declaration are not actionable--2. That the Court erred in rejecting the evidence offered by the appellant on the trial in that Court--3. That a new trial should have been awarded. The words, when taken in their usual acceptation, obviously import a charge against Mrs. Davis for having been guilty of adultery with the appellant; and as they appear to have been spoken since the passage of the act of 1812, regulating proceedings in civil cases, they are unquestionably actionable. The evidence which was offered by the appellant and rejected by the Court below, conduced in nowise to prove the truth of the charge in the declaration, but went to prove the commission of adultery by Mrs. Davis with other men. That evidence was properly rejected. In actions of slander, the defendant cannot set up a charge of the same thing, but distinct as to the subject matter; but if he would justify, he must justify as to the specific charge laid; nor can he give in evidence in mitigation of damages, any other crime. Thus in Helsden v. Mercer, Cro. Ja. 67, the charge was the plaintiff was a thief and had stolen twenty pounds, and the defendant in justification pleaded that the plaintiff had stolen a hen; the Court said the words pleaded were as slanderous as the others, and no justification of themFN(a). So too in Smithers v. Dr. Hawson, 1 Ld. Raym. 727, the charge was the adultery of the plaintiff with J. S. The Court said the defendant could not give in evidence the adultery of the plaintiff with any other woman, even in mitigation of damages. And in the case of Andrews v. Vanduzer, 11 John. 38, the same doctrine is recognized by the Supreme Court of New York. FN(a). Acc. Eastland v. Caldwell, vol. 2, p. 23. *2 With respect to the motion of the appellant for a new trial, it may be observed, the bill of exceptions contains no statement of the whole of the evidence being spread upon the record; but if it did, the evidence is not of that strong and conclusive character which will authorize this Court to disturb the verdict on the ground of its being contrary to evidence. Judgment affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Matthews v. Davis 4 Bibb 173, 7 Ky. 173, 1815 WL 708 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
