(Cite as: 4 Bibb 388,  7 Ky. 388 (Ky.),  1816 WL 782 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Brumfield v. Reynolds. Oct. 8, 1816. *1 On a warrant for a forcible entry, if the inquisition conforms thereto it is sufficient without finding that the premises were detained. A man may be actually possessed of land without having a crop growing on it or a person residing in the house on the land inclosed by a fence. Any act done by the owner of land after his tenant has left it, indicating an intention not to abandon, but to hold the exclusive possession, ought to go to the jury; and would justify them in finding a continued possession. A bare entry upon the possession of another, with or without title, is a forcible entry. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 4 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k4 k. Nature and Elements of Forcible Entry. Most Cited Cases Where a person settled a tenant upon land, and afterwards purchased the residue of the tenant's term, and after the tenant's removal allowed the premises to stand unoccupied, it was held that the bare entry of another upon the premises, with or without title, amounted to a forcible entry. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. REYNOLDS caused to be issued from a justice of the peace a warrant for a forcible entry against Brumfield. A jury was accordingly summoned, and upon the inquest being taken they found Brumfield guilty of the forcible entry complained of, etc. Brumfield traversed the inquest of the jury, and brought the cause before the Circuit Court; and upon a trial being had there, judgment of restitution was awarded in favor of Reynolds. From that judgment Brumfield has appealed to this Court. The sufficiency of the inquisition taken by the justice, is questioned by the assignment of errors, because it does not from thence appear that the premises were detained, by Brumfield. But as the warrant is for a forcible entry, and the inquest by finding the forcible entry, conforms literally with the requisitions of the act of assembly under which the proceedings were had, we deem it unnecessary further to notice the objection, but will confine our inquiries to the other points made in the cause. Those points grow out of opinions given by the Court below, and which are contained in bills of exceptions taken on the trial in that Court. It appears from the evidence that Reynolds had cleared and inclosed by a fence the field and built the house in contest, and settled a tenant therein; that before the expiration of his tenant's term, he purchased of him the residue of the term; and after the tenant removed from the premises, he (Reynolds) permitted the house to remain unoccupied; and in that situation, when no crop was growing in the field, Brumfield, without any actual force, and while part of the fence was down, but without the assent of Reynolds, entered upon and took possession of the house, but that the fence had been taken down for the purpose of being removed and connected with a new fence, the worm of which had been laid by Reynolds, and which he was about to erect: and it moreover appeared in evidence that Reynolds resided and had continued to reside for about twenty years within a quarter of a mile of the house in contest, and claimed the land under two claims, one of which covered the whole, and the other part of the field, but the legal title to neither of which was produced to the Court. It also appeared that Brumfield, when he entered, had title. *2 After this evidence was introduced, Brumfield moved the Court to instruct the jury that if the house was vacant and open, and the fence down and no crop growing when he entered, and that he entered without force and violence, and took possession according to his title, that by law their verdict should be in his favor; but the Court refused to give the instructions, and upon the motion of Reynolds instructed the jury that if they found from the evidence that Reynolds was in fact possessed of the premises at the time Brumfield entered, and that the entry was made against the will and without the assent of Reynolds, they ought to find Brumfield guilty of the forcible entry. The motion of Brumfield for instructions must have been predicated upon the hypothesis that Reynolds could not be actually possessed of the premises without a crop growing upon the land, unless some person resided in the house, or the field was inclosed by a fence; for if by any other means he could be possessed, it was clearly improper to make the finding of the jury in favor of Brumfield depend upon either a residence in the house, or an inclosure of the field. That Reynolds might be possessed by other means, we apprehend there can be no doubt; for if after his tenant left the house, he continued to exercise an ownership over the premises, by acts such as indicated an intention not to abandon, but to hold the exclusive possession to himself, he cannot be supposed to have been divested of the possession; and as the evidence in the cause is of that character from which the jury might reasonably have inferred the continuance of such a possession, the decisions of the Court, both in overruling the motion of Brumfield and giving the instructions asked by Reynolds, were correct. With respect to the title of Brumfield, it need only be remarked, that if we are correct in supposing the evidence conduced to prove a possession in Reynolds, the bare entry upon that possession, whether with or without title FN(a) , if without the assent of Reynolds, is in contemplation of law a forcible entry, and for which Reynolds is entitled to restitution. FN(a).  Smith v. Dedman, 7 Ky. 192. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. Brumfield v. Reynolds 4 Bibb 388, 7 Ky. 388, 1816 WL 782 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
