(Cite as: 4 Bibb 170,  7 Ky. 170 (Ky.),  1815 WL 707 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Withers v. Smith. Oct. 4, 1815. *1 A case within the statute of frauds and per-juries, respecting loans of goods and chattels. Slaves are within the operation of the statute. A parol loan of slaves in Virginia, afterward brought to Kentucky and held by the person to whom they were loaned for five years without demand made and prosecuted by due course of law, is within the statute of Kentucky and void as to the creditors of the possessor. That the purchaser at sheriff's sale had notice of the loan before he purchased, does not avoid his purchase; neither is it material whether the debt was contracted before or after the five years possession. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 54 161 Execution 161II Property Subject to Execution 161k50 Ownership or Possession of Property 161k54 k. Property in Custody of Agent or Depositary. Most  Cited Cases Where personal property is loaned, and held by the borrower for more than five years without demand, a purchaser at sheriff's sale with notice of the loan acquires a good title under the statute providing that, where property loaned is not demanded within five years, it shall be considered, as to creditors and purchasers, the absolute property of the borrower. Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 36 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186I Transfers and Transactions Invalid 186I(B) Nature and Form of Transfer 186k36 k. Loan or Hire of Chattels. Most Cited  Cases Where slaves, loaned by parol in Virginia, are brought into Kentucky and held there by the borrower for five years, without demand made and prosecuted, the transaction is within the statute of frauds of Kentucky that property remaining in possession of the borrower for five years without demand shall be taken, as to creditors and purchasers of the borrower, his absolute property. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS action was brought by Withers against Smith in the Court below, to recover damages for the trover and conversion of two negroes, purchased by Smith at a sheriff's sale made in virtue of a fieri facias which issued against the estate of Henry Field, in whose possession the negroes were when seized by the sheriff, and had been for the space of 15 or 20 years previous thereto, but were claimed to be the absolute property of Withers, who appears to have loaned them to the wife of Field, in the State of Virginia, where Field was possessed of them for about three years until he removed to this country, and since then remained possessed in this State until the seizure by the sheriff. In the progress of the trial in the Court below on the general issue, various questions were agitated; but as such of them as are deemed material apply exclusively to the construction of that branch of the statute against frauds and perjuries relating to the loan of goods and chattels, a more precise statement of the case is thought unnecessary. *2 That branch of the statute which more immediately forms the subject of consideration in the present case, provides that where any loan of goods and chattels shall be pretended to have been made to any person with whom, or those claiming under him, possession shall have remained for the space of five years without demand made and pursued by due process at law on the part of the pretended lender, the same shall be taken, as to the creditors and purchasers of the person aforesaid so remaining in possession, to be fraudulent within this act, and the absolute property to be with the possession, etc. As slaves in almost every respect partake of the quality of chattels, there can be no doubt but what they come within the provisions of the law. Such has been the construction of the Courts of Virginia on their statute, similar in its provisions to ours, and such also has been the decision of this Court in expounding our statute. But it is urged that as the loan by Withers to Mrs. Field was made in the State of Virginia, the laws of that State, and not this, must govern the case. This position cannot, however, be admitted to be correct; for without deciding on the application of our statute, where neither the loan is made, nor the thing loaned possessed within the limits of this country, it is clear the legislature of this State possesses the power to regulate by law the effect which the remaining possessed of property in this State any limited time shall have upon the loan, where ever made, under which the possession was taken; and if they possess such a power, the statute in question evidently evinces the exercise of that power; for if the intention of the legislature is sought, either from the language of the statute or from the mischiefs which must have been intended to be guarded against, it is equally obvious that a possession under a verbal loan within this country for the space of five years (wherever the loan may have been made), without a demand made and pursued by due process at law, was intended by the makers of the law to have the vitiating effect of making fraudulent, as to the creditors and purchasers of the person remaining possessed, all such loans; and in the emphatic language of the statute, in every such case the absolute property is with the possession. As, therefore, the possession of Field was of that description upon which the statute of this country clearly operates, the loan of Withers, though made in the State of Virginia, as to the creditors and purchasers of Field, is fraudulent, and cannot give him any right to reclaim the negroes. It cannot be material whether Smith had notice of the loan to Field before he purchased the negroes, or whether the creditor under whose execution the negroes were sold, became a creditor either before or after Field was possessed for five years; for according to the plain and natural import of the language of the statute, the loan is void as to the creditors and purchasers generally, without any discrimination; and to restrain its operation to one description in exclusion of any other, would be forming an exception to the law which the legislature have not themselves thought proper to make, and would open the door to the commission of perjuries in litigating the fact of notice, and in ascertaining the time when the debts of the person in possession were contracted; evils which the makers of the law must have intended to prevent, and which can alone be done by excluding all such inquires. *3 The judgment of the Court below must therefore be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Withers v. Smith 4 Bibb 170, 7 Ky. 170, 1815 WL 707 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
