(Cite as: 4 Bibb 221,  7 Ky. 221 (Ky.),  1815 WL 732 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Yocom, etc. v. Moore, etc. Nov. 2, 1815. *1 An injunction was dissolved on one day of the term, on a subsequent day of same term the cause was finally heard, the bill dismissed, and the complainant prayed an appeal. This suspended the order dissolving the injunction; and it was irregular to issue habere facias possessionem on judgment at law, pending the appeal from the decree in chancery. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 488(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30IX Supersedeas or Stay of Proceedings 30k484 Scope and Effect as Stay 30k488 Injunction 30k488(1) k. Appeal from Dismissal of Suit or Dissolution  of Injunction. Most Cited Cases An appeal from a decree dissolving an injunction restraining enforcement of a judgment at law, and dismissing complainant's bill, suspends the decree, and it is irregular to issue a writ of possession on the judgment pending the appeal. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE defendants in error having obtained judgments at law in an action of ejectment brought by them against the plaintiffs in the Court below, to be relieved against these judgments and obtain a surrender of the elder legal title, the plaintiffs exhibited their bill with an injunction, in which they rely upon their superior equity under an adverse claim. The suit in chancery having been regularly prepared, at the time it was set for trial, on the motion of the defendants, the injunction was dissolved, and at a subsequent day of the same term, the bill was dismissed with costs. From this decree the present plaintiffs prayed and obtained an appeal to this Court. At a subsequent term, but pending the appeal the clerk having refused to issue writs of possession on the judgments in ejectment, the present defendants moved the Court and obtained an order directing writs of possession to issue; and exceptions having been taken to the opinion of that Court, the cause is now brought before this Court by writ of error. The correctness of the decision of that Court turns exclusively upon the operation of the appeal taken to the decision in the suit in chancery. If the appeal suspends the order dissolving the injunction, as well as that dismissing the bill, then most clearly it was irregular, whilst that appeal was depending, for the Court to order the issuing of writs of possession. Why the appeal should not have such an operation, we are unable to perceive any satisfactory reason. Both the orders were made during the same term; they were both in the power of the Court during the same time, liable to be annulled, altered or amended at the discretion of the Court: they were both intimately connected in their relation to the same subject matter; and in fact the present plaintiffs, by manifesting their superior right to the land, the main subject of contest, would thereby necessarily show themselves entitled to relief against the judgments in ejectment. The appeal therefore, under these circumstances, whilst it suspends the decree as to the main subject, should also, we apprehend, suspend the operation of all orders made during the same term incidental and relating to the principal matter in contest. *2 The decision of the Court below is consequently erroneous in directing the writs of possession to issue, and must be reversed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Yocum v. Moore 4 Bibb 221, 7 Ky. 221, 1815 WL 732 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
