(Cite as: 4 Litt. 117,  14 Ky. 117 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1230 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bell v. Howard. Oct. 13, 1823. *1 FROM THE WARREN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. HENRY P. BRODNAX SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Libel and Slander 237 k 121(2) 237 Libel and Slander 237IV Actions 237IV(D) Damages 237k121 Amount Awarded 237k121(2) k. Slander. Most Cited  Cases In an action of slander, $1000 damages are not outrageously excessive. New Trial 275 k 54 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(D) Disqualification or Misconduct of or Affecting Jury 275k53 Necessity of Objection at Trial 275k54 k. Knowledge or Means of Knowledge of Facts. Most  Cited Cases If a party knew, before the jury were sworn, that a certain juror had formed an opinion, but did not know that that opinion was against him, it is no cause for granting him a new trial. New Trial 275 k 89 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(G) Surprise, Accident, Inadvertence, or Mistake 275k89 k. Evidence in General. Most Cited  Cases Unexpected evidence, impeaching the character of a witness, is not a surprise for which a new trial ought to be granted. New Trial 275 k 152 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k152 k. Amendment of Motion or Affidavits. Most Cited Cases Additional causes for a new trial ought not to be assigned, so as to surprise the opposite party. CRITTENDEN for Bell; MONROE and SHARP for Howard. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action brought in the court below by Howard against Bell, for speaking slanderous words. An issue was made up by the parties to a plea justifying the truth of the words spoken. The jury found a verdict in favor of Howard, for one thousand dollars; and after overruling Bell's motion for a new trial, judgment was rendered by the court in conformity to the verdict. Motion for a new trial properly overruled. $1,000 damages not outrageously excessive, in an action of slander. The motion for a new trial was made on the following grounds: 1st, That the verdict is contrary to law and evidence; 2d, that the damages assessed by the jury are outrageously excessive; 3d, that the jury were influenced by prejudice against Bell; 4th, that one of the jury had formed an opinion against Bell, previous to the trial, and which was unknown to him; and 5th, that Bell was surprised by the evidence of witnesses introduced by Howard, impeaching the character of a witness who had been introduced to him. If a party knew, before the jury were sworn, that one of the jurors had formed an opinion, and knew who the juror was, but did not know, until after the trial, that the opinion of the juror was against him, it is no cause for granting a new trial. Unexpected evidence, impeaching the character of a witness, is not a surprise for which a new trial ought to be granted. *2 The first assignment of error questions the correctness of the decision of the court in overruling Bell's motion for a new trial. There is evidently nothing in the first ground assumed by Bell in his motion. The evidence is of a character proper for the consideration and decision of the jury, and conduced to establish the negative of Bell's plea. The verdict can not, therefore, be said to be against evidence, or in violation of any principle of law. There is also as little reason to interfere with the verdict on the second ground assumed by Bell. The amount of damages to be given in actions of this sort, is properly within the sound discretion of the jury; and there is nothing in this cause, going to show that in their determination the discretion of the jury has been abused. The damages are not so outrageously high, as to indicate prejudice or undue influence in the jury against Bell. They are not for more than might be expected from a jury justly appreciating the excellence of a good character, which, in their opinion, had been unjustifiably and maliciously slandered. And with respect to the third ground relied on for a new trial, it is sufficient to remark, that the fact of the jury entertaining prejudice against Bell, is not made out in proof. Additional causes for new trial, ought not to be assigned, so as to surprise the opposite party. The fourth ground is that of one of the jury having formed an opinion against Bell, before the trial. The juror alluded to, is said, in the affidavit of Bell, to be Frederick Case; and from that affidavit, as well as the affidavit of the juror, taken by Bell, it is apparent, that when the juror was called on the trial, he disclosed the fact of his having made up an opinion before he was sworn. Bell should, therefore, have objected to the juror before he was sworn; and having failed to do so, it was too late, after trial, to make the incompetency of the juror a ground for a new trial. It is true, that Bell, in his affidavit, denies knowing, before the juror was sworn, that the opinion of the juror, though formed, was formed against him. But he knew the juror had made up an opinion; and as he, after possessing that knowledge waived objecting to the juror, he can not be permitted to urge the objection after verdict. The ground fifthly assumed for a new trial, consists in the alleged surprise of Bell, by testimony going to impeach the character of a witness who had been introduced by himself. Surprise of that sort, we can not admit to form any sufficient cause for disturbing the verdict of a jury. Bell must be presumed to have known that the general character of any witness introduced by him, was liable to be assailed by his adversary. Prudence should, therefore, have dictated to him the propriety of being prepared, on the trial, with evidence to sustain the character of his witness, if it were sustainable; and having failed to do so, the fault is with him, and he must be left to abide by the consequences. *3 After the motion for a new trial was taken up in the court below, and after the affidavits taken in support thereof, were read, and the arguments of counsel had, but before the court had decided on the motion, the counsel for Bell moved the court for leave to assign an additional ground for a new trial, and to permit Bell to amend his affidavit, by making oath to the fact intended to be embraced in the additional ground for a new trial; but the motion was overruled, and, we apprehend, correctly. The ground first relied on for a new trial, had been presented to the court two days before the latter application was made, and the fact which was intended in the latter application to be relied on, appears to have been known to Bell and his counsel, on the day proceeding the day on which the motion for a new trial came on to be heard. Under these circumstances, we apprehend, the court can not be said to have acted incorrectly in refusing the latter application. It was incumbent on the counsel of Bell, before he proceeded on his motion for a new trial, to have seen that his grounds assumed, were sufficiently broad to meet the case he was about presenting to the court. It was his duty to do so, because it was to those grounds his adversary had to look, in preparing his defense to the motion; and after having induced his adversary to prepare for the motion on the grounds first assigned for a new trial, he assuredly ought not to be permitted, in the progress of the hearing of the motion, to assign other grounds, and introduce evidence inapplicable to those first assigned for a new trial. Judgment affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1823. Bell v. Howard 4 Litt. 117, 14 Ky. 117, 1823 WL 1230 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
