(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 356,  10 Ky. 356 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1093 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Cowan v. Ezekiel Glover et al. Apr. 20, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE JEFFERSON COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Eminent Domain 148 k 180 148 Eminent Domain 148III Proceedings to Take Property and Assess Compensation 148k179 Process or Notice 148k180 k. Necessity. Most Cited Cases Where the owner of property injured by erecting a milldam does not reside in the county, and has no known agent there, he need not be summoned previous to an order authorizing the mill and dam. Eminent Domain 148 k 198(1) 148 Eminent Domain 148III Proceedings to Take Property and Assess Compensation 148k198 Hearing and Determination as to Right to Take 148k198(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where the applicant for leave to erect a milldam owns both sides of the stream, the land for the abutment need not be circumscribed in the order. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse an order of the county court of Jefferson county, giving permission to Glover to erect a mill and dam. By the inquisition taken on the cause, it appears that Cowan will sustain damage by the erection of the dam; and it is assigned for error, that leave to erect the mill and dam should not have been given by the court, without causing Cowan to be first summoned to appear. The act under which the proceedings were had, no where requires a summons to issue against any person who may be injured by the erection of the mill and dam, unless he resides in the county where the mill and dam is proposed to be erected, or has a known agent there; and in the present case, Cowan appears not to have resided in the county of Jefferson, and is not shewn to have had an agent there. It was, therefore, not necessary to cause him to be summoned. It appears that on the return of the inquisition to the county court, Lucket moved the court to quash it, as well, because he contended, that one of the jurors therein named had previously served on another inquisition which had been quashed by the court, as because the inquisition neither conformed to the requisitions of law, or the directions of the writ. This motion was, however, overruled, and it is assigned for error, that the inquisition should have been quashed. The act regulating the establishment of mills, does not require the owner of property injured thereby to be summoned, unless he resides in the county or has a known agent. From any thing contained in the record, it does not appear on what grounds the inquisition first taken was quashed. It may not have been for any objection to the jury; and if so, the circumstance of the same person having served on both inquisitions, forms no cause for setting aside that which was last taken. And with respect to the other objections taken to the inquisition, no reason is perceived for quashing it. Although not as formal as it might have been made, the inquisition conforms to every substantial requisition of the writ, and responds directly to every inquiry made necessary by law. It is true, the writ commanded the land for an abutment of the dam to be located and circumscribed by metes and bounds; whereas, the inquisition appears to be altogether silent on that subject. But as the land on both sides of the stream, across which the dam was proposed to be erected, belongs to the applicant, Glover, there was no necessity for condemning any land for an abutment of the dam, and consequently the failure to locate and circumscribe any for that purpose, can form no solid objection to the inquisition. *2 Where the applicant owns both sides of the stream across which the dam is contemplated, the land for the abutment need not be circumscribed. It will be conceded, that in failing to locate and circumscribe the land for an abutment, the mandate of the writ in that respect was not complied with; but as that mandate was unnecessary, it must be considered as merely surplusage, and consequently needed no response in the inquisition. It follows, that the order of the county court must be affirmed with costs. Littell, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1821. Cowan v. Glover 3 A.K.Marsh. 356, 10 Ky. 356, 1821 WL 1093 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
