(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 356,  8 Ky. 356 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1406 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Eleanor Skeene el al. v. Jacob Fishback. Nov. 15, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Trial 388 k 170 388 Trial 388VI Taking Case or Question from Jury 388VI(D) Direction of Verdict 388k167 Nature and Grounds 388k170 k. Verdict for Plaintiff. Most Cited  Cases Where the evidence in support of plaintiff's title in ejectment is parol, it is error for the court to instruct the jury peremptorily that plaintiff has made out a title. Wills 409 k 482 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(A) General Rules 409k482 k. Operation as to After-Acquired Property. Most  Cited Cases Land granted by a patent to a dead man will not pass by a previous will made before the statute of wills of 1787. Deeds 120 k 47 120 Deeds 120I Requisites and Validity 120I(C) Execution 120k47 k. Attestation. Most Cited Cases A deed, proved by two witnesses in a sister state, is not sufficiently proved. Evidence 157 k 104 157 Evidence 157IV Admissibility in General 157IV(A) Facts in Issue and Relevant to Issues 157k104 k. Personal Relations. Most Cited Cases In an action of ejectment for land, a will by which the land could not pass is admissible to show who are the testator's children. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a writ of error brought to reverse a judgment recovered by Fishback, in an action of ejectment brought by him against Skeene, &c. in the court below. Upon common law principles, a patent issue to a dead man, is void, but is rendered valid to certain intents by the statute of 1792-- (1 Litt., 160) and a warrant issued to, and an entry made for, a dead man, are within the equity of the statute and will enure to the benefit of his representatives: Vide ante, Lewis v. M'Gee. Fishback asserted his claim to the land under a patent which issued to Joel Early in December, 1785, for 2,000 acres; but as the patent is proven to have issued after the death of Early, it is contended that it is altogether inoperative, and hence it is inferred, that Fishback, claiming through it, ought not to have succeeded in that court. Upon common law principles, as a sufficient grantee is of the essence of a valid grant, there would be no doubt but that as Early was dead when the patent issued, it could not have passed any title from the commonwealth; but, as by the act of 1792,  (1 Littell, 160) land contained in patents which may issue in the name of dead persons, is directed to pass to the heir or devisee, in the same manner as though they had issued in the decedent's lifetime, we are of opinion, that although the entry and warrant, in virtue of which the patent to Early issued, may bear date subsequent to his death, yet as well, according to the letter, as the equity of the act, the title must be considered as enuring to his legal representatives. *2 As, however, Early had no interest in the land at the time of making his will, and as that was done before the change in the law authorizing after acquired lands to be disposed of by will, it is plain, the devisee can have gained no interest in the land. A will made before the stat. of wills (1785, to take effect 1 Jan., 1787), will not pass after acquired lands, they descend to the heir. Such will is competent to show who are the testator's children. A power of attorney purporting to have been acknowledged before two justices of the peace of a sister State, and recorded here on that proof alone, is an inadequate authentication to pass land--Vide ante, Morgan v. Beale. Where the evidence in support of a plaintiff's title in ejectment is parol, it is error for the court to instruct the jury peremptorily, that the plaintiff has made out the title. (The reporter presumes the directions should have been hypothetical, leaving the credibility to the jury, and deciding on the legal effect alone of the testimony, if credited.) For the purpose of shewing title in the devisee, therefore, the will, no doubt, was inadmissible, but as the legitimacy of Early's children might be proven by his declarations, the will was properly used in evidence for the purpose of proving that those persons recognized as such, are his children. To have authorized Fishback to recover, then, he must have deduced title from Early's heirs, and in order to ascertain whether he has done so, it is material to examine whether or not he has shewn a conveyance from the eldest son; for, as both Early's death and the emanation of the patent occurred before the change in the law of descents, according to the act of 1792, the title must have enured to the eldest son, in exclusion of the other children. Which of the sons is the oldest, is not, however, proven; but as Fishback has attempted to shew a conveyance from all, to know whether the eldest has conveyed, we are led to examine the deed of each. A deed purporting to have been executed by Whitfield Early for himself, and as the agent of his brothers, was in troduced, but as the power under which it purports to have been made, was no otherwise proven than by the acknowledgment before two justices of Virginia, certified to have been recorded by the clerk of Boone county upon their certificate, and again certified to have been recorded upon that certificate by the clerk of this court, it is clear, that if the objection taken in the court below questions the sufficiency of the proof, as to the execution of the power, it ought to have been rejected; and if the power is rejected, although the deed may be effectual to pass the interest of Whitfield, yet as he is not shewn to be the eldest son, Fishback can not have shewn a title through the heir at law. Whether the objections taken in that court goes to the sufficiency of the proof of the power, need not, however, be decided; for if it does not, still the court, by instructing the jury, that except for the share of Juliana Ru?? ker, Fishback made out title to the whole of the land in contest, clearly erred. *3 For as the evidence is partly of a parol character, it was unquestionally irregular for the court, by their positive instructions, to withdraw from the jury a decision of it. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Bibb for appellant, Pope for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Skeene v. Fishback 1 A.K.Marsh. 356, 8 Ky. 356, 1818 WL 1406 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
