(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 18,  19 Ky. 18 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1179 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ward v. Martin. Nov. 11, 1825. *1 Assignee. Obligor. Parties. Assignment. Set Off. Evidence. Pleading. ERROR TO THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT, GEO. SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 44(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k43 Joint and Separate Claims and Liabilities 352k44 In General 352k44(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases In an action on a note by the payee for the benefit of a transferee thereof, the maker may plead as a set-off a debt due him at the time of the commencement of the action from the person for whose benefit the suit is prosecuted. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 50 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k48 Set-Offs and Counterclaims Against Assigned Causes of Action 352k50 k. Demands Arising or Maturing After Assignment or  Notice Thereof. Most Cited Cases Claims accruing in favor of defendant against the assignor subsequent to the assignment are unavailable as a set-off. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Case stated. This was an action brought in the circuit court, by Martin, to recover one hundred dollars--the amount of a note which was executed to him by Ward. The trial was had in the circuit court upon an issue taken to a plea of payment, with permission to Ward to avail himself in evidence of any matter which might be pleaded in bar of the action. A verdict was found by the jury for Martin, and judgment rendered against Ward for the amount of the note. Plea payment with leave to give special matter in evidence. To reverse that judgment, Ward has prosecuted this writ of error. The case turns, in this court, upon the correctness of a decision of the court below, upon a question of evidence. It appears that in the progress of the trial before the jury, Ward introduced a witness and offered to prove, that, some time prior to the commencement of the action, Martin, by a parol contract, for a valuable consideration, sold to one White Coxe the note upon which the suit is founded; and that although the action is brought in the name of Martin, it was prosecuted for the benefit of Coxe, to whom, under the contract with Martin, the beneficial interest in the note belonged before, and at, the time the suit was instituted. He also, offered to prove, that, at and before the suit was commenced, the said Coxe was indebted to Ward in a much larger sum than the principal and interest of the note, by account for money before that time laid out and expended by Ward for Coxe, at his special instance and request. The object of Ward, as stated by him to the court below, in offering the foregoing evidence, was to avail himself of the amount due him from Coxe, as a set-off against the demand sued for. But the evidence was objected to by the counsel of Martin, and rejected by the court. *2 Evidence of set off offered and erroneously rejected. The question of evidence, upon which the case turns in this court is, therefore, whether or not in rejecting the foregoing evidence which was offered by Ward, the court decided correctly. Set off may be pleaded of a debt due defendant by the person for whose benefit the suit is prosecuted--not of a debt on nominal plaintiff accrued after notice of the acquisition of the other. See 1 Mar. 486. This question must we apprehend be decided in the negative, according to the principle settled in the case of Carlisle v. Long, 1 Marshall R. 486. That was an action brought by Long, for the benefit of Kinkead, against Carlisle; and to a plea of set-off, which it was admitted, would have been availing as against Long, if the action had not been prosecuted for the benefit of Kinkead, the plaintiff Long was adjudged to be at liberty to make a replication containing suitable and appropriate allegations to shew that Kinkead, for whose benefit the action was prosecuted, had an equity in the demand for which the suit was brought, prior in time to the accrual of the demand pleaded by Carlisle as a set-off. If, therefore, as we still think, we were correct in permitting in that case a legal bar to be avoided by a replication containing equitable matter only, it must be competent for the defendant Ward, to avail himself of the equitable matter attempted to be proved in avoidance of the recovery which was sought against him. This case, as well as that which was brought by Long, is prosecuted in the name of one person for the benefit of another; and if it be competent, by the introduction of equitable matter, to protect the interest of the person for whose benefit the action is brought against a legal bar, it must be equally competent for the defendant to bar a recovery against him by the introduction of equitable matter against the person holding the beneficial interest in the demand sued for. It was, therefore, incorrect in the court below, to reject the evidence offered by Ward; and the judgment must consequently be reversed with costs; and the cause remanded to the court below, for further proceedings to be there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Hanson, for plaintiffs; French and Taul for defendant. Ky.App. 1825. Ward v. Martin 3 T.B.Mon. 18, 19 Ky. 18, 1825 WL 1179 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
