(Cite as: 4 Litt. 289,  14 Ky. 289 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1285 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kenny v. Collins. Nov. 28, 1823. *1 FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 261(2) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k261 Assignment of Lien or Claim for Purchase  Money 400k261(2) k. Assignment of Claim or Obligation for  Purchase Money as Assignment of Lien. Most Cited Cases Where a bond for the purchase price of land is secured by a lien on the land, an assignee of the bond is entitled in equity to the benefit of the lien. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 279 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k268 Enforcement of Lien 400k279 k. Parties. Most Cited  Cases A bill in equity alleged that C., holding a bond for conveyance of land, sold the land to E., taking E.'s bond for the price, secured by lien on the land, which bond was assigned to the complainant;  that E. died without having disposed of the land;  and that defendant, as executor de son tort of E.'s estate, had fraudulently obtained a deed of said land in his own name. The bill asserted a lien on the land, and prayed for a sale. Held, that the heirs of E. were necessary parties to the suit. Assignments 38 k 78 38 Assignments 38IV Operation and Effect 38k75 Rights Passing as Incidents 38k78 k. Collateral Securities, Liens, and Preferences. Most  Cited Cases The assignment of a debt operates as an assignment of all collaterals or liens securing its payment. Equity 150 k 94 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k93 Necessary or Indispensable Parties 150k94 k. Persons Indispensable to Complete and  Final Determination. Most Cited Cases A bill in equity alleged that C., holding a bond for conveyance of land, sold the land to E., taking E.'s bond for the price, secured by lien on the land, which bond was assigned to the complainant;  that E. died without having disposed of the land;  and that defendant, as executor de son tort of E.'s estate, had fraudulently obtained a deed of said land in his own name. The bill asserted a lien on the land, and prayed for a sale.  Held, that the heirs of E., who were necessary parties, not having been made parties to the bill, the bill should be dismissed without prejudice. SWIGERT for plaintiff; SHARP for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a decree pronounced by the court below, dismissing a bill which was exhibited in that court by Kenny against Collins. The assignee of a bond for the purchase of land, has a lien on the land, if the assignor had. It appears from the bill, that many years ago, Thomas Kenny, the father of the plaintiff in error, purchased from Toliver Craig a tract of land, and received from Craig a bond for a title; that some time thereafter, Thomas Kenny sold the land to Robert Parks, and assigned to Parks the bond on Craig for a title, and at the same time received from Parks an obligation for the price of the land; that the bond for the price was afterwards assigned by Thomas Kenny to the plaintiff in error, and that Parks has departed this life without making payment, and without leaving sufficient personal estate to satisfy the obligation. The bill also alleges, that no person has ever obtained from the proper authority letters of administration, though it charges that the defendant, by unlawfully intermeddling with the estate of Parks, became executor of his own wrong; and that after prosecuting a suit against him in that character, the plaintiff has been unable to recover the amount of his demand against the estate of Parks. It is also charged in the bill, that Parks died without having disposed of the land mentioned in the bond on Craig, and that the defendant, with full knowledge of the plaintiff's demand, after the death of Parks, obtained the possession of the bond on Craig, and has fraudulently obtained a deed in his name. The bill asserts a lien on the land for the plaintiff's demand, and prays that the land may be decreed to be sold to satisfy it, &c. *2 Of parties to a suit in chancery. Assuming the allegations of the bill to be true, it would not be denied but that the land is liable for the payment of the demand asserted by the plaintiff in his bill. The doctrine is well settled, that the seller of land retains a lien on the land sold for the sale money, unless waived by some act of his, such as the taking other security or otherwise, which appears not to have been done by Thomas Kenny in the present case. The present suit is not, however, prosecuted by Thomas Kenny, the seller of the land to Parks; but it is brought by the plaintiff as his assignee of the bond given by Parks for the sale money, and as assignee, we apprehend, the plaintiff is entitled to the benefit of Thomas Kenny's lien on the land. But, if it be true, as the bill states, that the defendant, without having purchased the land from Parks, has, since his death, fraudulently obtained a deed from Craig, the heirs of Parks must still retain an interest in the land, and, consequently, should be brought before the court before any decree can be pronounced in favor of the plaintiff. If, therefore, the court had pronounced a decree dismissing the plaintiff's bill without prejudice, it would, no doubt, have been correct; but it was irregular to pronounce a decree dismissing the bill absolutely on the merits, before the heirs of Parks were before the court. The decree must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered dismissing the bill without prejudice to another suit. Each party must pay his own costs in this court. Ky.App. 1823. Kenny v. Collins 4 Litt. 289, 14 Ky. 289, 1823 WL 1285 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
