(Cite as: 4 Bibb 41,  7 Ky. 41 (Ky.),  1815 WL 648 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Moore's executors v. Allen. Apr. 21, 1815. *1 Plaintiff in an execution was induced by the obligors to bid for land not liable to execution-the executors, obligors in a repl'n bond, having given up the land to sale, instead of the personal estate, and knowing the facts, failed to disclose them--whereupon the plaintiff in the execution brought his bill against the executors for the amount so paid for the land. Bill sustain'd and relief decreed accordingly. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 286 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k284 Rights and Remedies on Avoidance of Sale or Failure  of Title 161k286 k. Reimbursement. Most Cited  Cases An execution having issued upon a replevin bond against A.'s executors, they delivered to the sheriff a tract of land not liable to the execution.  B. purchased at the sale, and afterwards brought his bill to be relieved from the purchase and to recover the price, and relief was granted. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. ALLEN having the beneficial interest in an execution which issued upon a replevy bond against the executors of Moore, purchased at the sheriff's sale a tract of land, at the price of $400. To be relieved against this purchase, and recover back the price given for the land, Allen exhibited his bill in equity; in which he charges the land was not liable to the execution, and that the executors, with a full knowledge of the situation of the title, and to relieve the personal estate from the execution, delivered the tract to the sheriff to be sold, and that he was induced by the representations of the executors to make the purchase. On a hearing in the Court below, that Court made a decree giving the appropriate relief; from which decree Moore's executors have prosecuted this appeal. We are of opinion Allen has made out a proper case for relief, and that the Court below properly decreed accordingly. There is no doubt but the land was not liable to the execution under which it was sold, and it is clear from the evidence in the cause the executors had full knowledge of the situation of the title, and with that knowledge delivered the land in ease of the personal estate to be sold; and it is moreover evident that knowledge was not disclosed by the executors to Allen, but he was induced to purchase by the representations of one of the executors of Moore. Under circumstances like these, whatever might have been our opinion in a different state of case, we can have no doubt but that Allen is entitled to relief. He has sustained an injury produced by their act, by which they have been bene fited, consequently should be compensated by them. Decree affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Moore's Ex'rs v. Allen 4 Bibb 41, 7 Ky. 41, 1815 WL 648 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
