(Cite as: 4 Bibb 501,  7 Ky. 501 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1070 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Carpenter v. Shepherd. Apr. 12, 1817. *1 A warrant may charge a forcible entry or detainer in the alternative. Deeds may be introduced to prove the extent of possession, but not to prove a better title or right of possession. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 21(3) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k21 Inquisition or Other Summary Proceeding, and Review Thereof 179k21(3) k. Waiver of Defects. Most Cited  Cases A warrant charging a forcible entry or detainer in the alternative was, after a finding of the detainer by the jury and a traverse, held to be good. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. ON the application of Shepherd, a justice of the peace of Bullitt county issued a warrant against Carpenter, for a forcible entry or detainer; and the jury summoned found Carpenter guilty of the forcible detainer, whereupon Carpenter by traversing the inquisition of the jury brought the case before the Circuit Court. Upon calling the cause in the Circuit Court, the motion of Carpenter to quash the warrant was overruled, and an issue being made up, the jury returned a verdict in favor of Shepherd, subject to the opinion of the Court on the questions reserved; and the questions reserved being determined in favor of Shepherd, judgment of restitution was rendered in his favor. No error is perceived in the decision of the Court, either in overruling the motion of Carpenter or in the determination of the reserved questions against him. The motion to quash was made on a supposed defect, in the warrant's charging a forcible entry or detainer, in the alternative. That charge, we are, however, of opinion, although not as technical as it might have been, is substantially good, especially after a finding of the detainer by the jury, and a translation of the cause by traverse to the Circuit Court. With respect to the reserved question, that turns exclusively upon the propriety of admitting as evidence the deeds under which Carpenter claims. Those deeds, under a possible state of case, might have been proper evidence to prove the extent or boundary of Carpenter's possession; but as they appear not to have been offered for that purpose, but to prove no title in Shepherd and a rightful possession in Carpenter, according to the decision of this Court in the cases of Smith v. Dedman, (7 Ky. 192), and Brumfield v. Reynolds (ante 389), the Court did right in deciding they were inadmissible. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1817. Carpenter v. Shepherd 4 Bibb 501, 7 Ky. 501, 1817 WL 1070 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
