(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 143,  19 Ky. 143 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1253 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hawkins v. Robinson. Apr. 6, 1826. *1 Administration. Distributees. County Court. Frauds. Statutes. Error. APPEAL FROM THE MADISON COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 17(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162II Appointment, Qualification, and Tenure 162k17 Right to Appointment as Administrator 162k17(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where there is neither husband nor wife, administration may be granted to any distributee applying qualified to administer the estate. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. The county court of Madison county, at the March term, 1825, upon the application of Mrs. Hawkins, made an order granting to her administration of the estate of Sarah Robinson, deceased, and she thereupon entered into bond with security, as required by law. Letters of administration granted appellant. On the same day, but after Mrs. Hawkins had left court, William Robinson appeared, and moved the court to set aside the order, previously made, granting the administration to Mrs. Hawkins, and to grant the administration to him. When this motion of Robinson was made, neither of the justices by whom the previous order was made were present, but the counsel of Mrs. Hawkins appeared, and contested Robinson's application. The court, however, sustained the motion, and made an order setting aside the previous order granting administration of the estate of Sarah Robinson, deceased, to Mrs. Hawkins, and granted the administration thereof to Robinson, who thereupon executed bond with security, according to law. The propriety of thus revoking the grant of administration to Mrs. Hawkins, and granting it to Wm. Robinson, is questioned by the assignment of errors. On same day, after appellant. lant had departed, and there had been a change in the members of the court, the letters are revoked and administration granted appellee. That in making the order, which was afterwards set aside, the court acted strictly within the sphere of its legitimate authority, is perfectly clear. The residence of Mrs. Robinson being in the county of Madison at the time of her decease, gave to that court unquestionable authority to decide upon the right of administration of her estate, and as she had no husband, it was in perfect conformity with the requisitions of the act of the legislature of this country, to grant administration to Mrs. Hawkins, who is one of the children of the intestate Sarah Robinson. The 29th section of the act concerning executors and administrators, (1 Dig. L. K. 527), provides that "the several courts respectively, shall have the like jurisdiction to hear and determine the right of administration of the estates of persons dying intestate, as is herein before mentioned, as to the proof of wills, in respect to the intestate's place of residence or death, or where the estate shall die, and shall grant certificates for obtaining such administration to the representatives who apply for the same, prefering first the husband or wife, and then such others as are next entitled to distribution, or one or more of them, as the court shall judge will best manage and improve the estate." As a child of the intestate Mrs. Hawkins comes expressly within that description of persons next entitled to distribution mentioned in the act, and to whom, or some one or more of them that apply, the court is explicitly required to grant administration, where the intestate has no wife or husband. In making the order granting administration to Mrs. Hawkins, the court must, therefore, have acted strictly within the pale of its legal authority. *2 Where the intestate has no husband or wife, the county court shall grant letters of administration to such, one or more in their discretion of the distributees whom make application. After having thus, in conformity with the requisitions of law, granted administration to her, was it competent for the court to revoke the grant, and make an order granting administration to Wm. Robinson? Upon general principles it would seem not. As Robinson is the son, and equal in degree of kindred with Mrs. Hawkins to their mother, the intestate, it would, no doubt, upon application of both for administration, have been within the discretion of the court to have preferred either, or granted the administration to both jointly; but after having executed its authority by making the grant to Mrs. Hawkins, it would be contrary to general usage, and incompatible with the rights and power of the administratrix, to whom the grant was first made to allow an unlimited discretion in the court to revoke the grant, and again grant administration to another. The court having granted administration to a daughter who applied alone can not afterwards, on the same day after her departure, and a change of the justices on the bench, revoke the grant to her and re-grant the administration to a son without a legal cause. In cases where the authority conferred by law upon the court is not regularly executed in granting administration, we admit that the irregular grant may be afterwards revoked, and administration again granted; and even where the grant is otherwise duly made, but obtained through fraud, or if the grantee becomes non compos mentis, or otherwise incapable, the grant may be revoked. Toller's law of executors, 121-2, and the authorities there cited. Where the court has not regularly executed its power in granting the administration, where there has been fraud in obtaining the grant or the administrator becomes non compos, or otherwise incapable, the letters may be revoked. But as we have already remarked, the grant of administration to Mrs. Hawkins was duly made, and there is no suggestion in the record conducing to shew either fraud in obtaining the grant, or any lack of capacity in her to perform the duties of her office. The only circumstance which can be brought in defense of the revocation of that grant, with any plausibility, is that of Robinson being in equal degree of kindred with Mrs. Hawkins to the intestate, and the administration having been committed to her in his absence, and from any thing contained in the record, without his knowledge. But that circumstance is not of itself sufficient to justify a revocation of the grant to her. It is to such of the representatives as apply, or some one or more of them, that the act requires administration to be granted by the court; and after the administration is once granted to any of the representatives, others in equal degree of kindred have, during the life of the grantee, no title to the administration, unless for other sufficient cause, the grant is afterwards revoked. Accordingly, in Toller's Law of Executors, 93, it is said, "when administration has been once committed to any of the next of kin, others even in the same degree of kindred, have, during the life of the administrator, no title to a similar grant." *3 That the son was not present when the court granted the administration to the daughter, is no cause for the court after her departure, on his application, to revoke the grant to her, and grant him the letters. The order of the county court revoking the grant of administration to Mrs. Hawkins, as well as that which granted administration to Robinson are, therefore, erroneous, and must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the county court, and an order there made conformable to this opinion. Orders of the court revoking and regranting the administration reversed. Turner, for appellant. Ky.App. 1826. Hawkins v. Robinson 3 T.B.Mon. 143, 19 Ky. 143, 1826 WL 1253 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
