(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 14,  19 Ky. 14 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1178 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Holley's Adm'x v. Christopher. Nov. 11, 1825. *1 Amendments. Pleading. Arrest of Judgment. Error. Surprise. New Trial. Executors and Administrators. Costs. ERROR TO THE CLARKE CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 456(3) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k456 Costs 162k456(3) k. Liability of Executor or Administrator in  General. Most Cited Cases Where the cause of action accrued to the intestate in his lifetime, the administrator is not liable to costs, though he fail in the action. New Trial 275 k 147 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k146 Affidavits as to Surprise, Accident, or Mistake 275k147 k. Necessity and Sufficiency in General. Most Cited  Cases The affidavit for a new trial on the ground of surprise must show that the contrary could be proved on another trial. Appeal and Error 30 k 864 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(A) Scope, Standards, and Extent, in General 30k862 Extent of Review Dependent on Nature of Decision  Appealed from 30k864 k. On Appeal from Final Judgment. Most Cited  Cases Where judgment by default was entered, and afterwards arrested on motion of defendant because of a defect in the declaration, and plaintiff subsequently filed an amended declaration, to which the general issue was joined and trial had, on appeal from the second judgment the propriety of the decision arresting the first cannot be reviewed. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement. This was an action of assumpsit, brought by the present plaintiff, to recover of the defendant upon a contract made with the intestate Holley, in his life time. The declaration--Interlocutory judgment by default and writ of inquiry. The declaration, as originally drawn, contains several counts, and the defendant failing to make answer thereto, an interlocutory judgment was entered against him, and a writ of enquiry awarded to assess the damages. Upon executing the writ of inquiry, the jury assessed five hundred and forty-one dollars, for damages sustained by reason of the failure of the defendant to perform the assumpsit laid in the first count of the declaration, and found for the defendant on the other counts. Damages assessed on first count and verdict on the others for defendant. A motion was then made by the defendant in arrest of judgment, and the court, being of opinion that the first count of the declaration was defective, rendered judgment in arrest of judgment, and directed the proceedings to commence by the plaintiff filing an amendment to her declaration. Judgment arrested on defendant's motion, and declaration amended. At a subsequent term, an amended declaration was filed, under the special leave of the court, obtained by application of the plaintiff for that purpose. *2 The general issue was then pleaded by the defendant, and upon the trial of that issue, a verdict was found for the defendant, and judgment thereon rendered in his favor for the cost, to be levied of the estate of the intestate in the hands of the plaintiff unadministered, &c. Plea; trial; verdict and judgment for defendant. To reserve this latter judgment, the plaintiff has prosecuted this writ of error. The assignment of errors questions the correctness of the decision of the court below, in arresting the judgment upon the first verdict as well as the subsequent opinions of the court in the further progress of the cause, and the accuracy of the judgment rendered against the plaintiff. Errors assigned. Whether or not the court was correct in arresting the judgment, is not, however, in the opinion of this court, an enquiry proper to be gone into in the present contest. If, instead of amending her declaration, the plaintiff, after the arrest of judgment, had failed to amend her declaration, and judgment had been rendered dismissing her action, it would, no doubt, in a writ of error to the judgment of dismissal, be incumbent upon this court to revise the decision of the court below arresting the judgment. In that case, a determination by the plaintiff to abide by her first count would be sufficiently evinced, and of course she would be entitled to the opinion of this court upon the sufficiency of that count to authorize her to recover. But after having not only obtained leave of the court and actually amended her declaration, and after having proceeded upon that amended declaration to a final trial upon the merits, the case of the plaintiff is essentially altered. Under such circumstances, she must be understood to have waived the demand asserted by her in her original declaration, and in a writ of error to the judgment rendered against her upon the amended declaration should not be permitted to draw in question the correctness of the decision of the court, which was given in arresting the judgment. She can not be at liberty to do so with more propriety than would a plaintiff be to question the correctness of a decision against her upon a demurrer to her declaration, after under the leave of the court, amending her declaration, which, according to the repeated decisions of this court, can never be done. If plaintiff amend his declaration, after judgment has been arrested on defendant's motion, and have another trial, he can not afterwards assign for error that the court erred in arresting the judgment. Amendment of a plea demurred to after judgment for demurrant is an abandonment of the plea so decided against, and a waiver of the error in the judgment against it. The present case must, therefore, turn upon the questions made in relation to the proceedings subsequent to the arrest of judgment, and not upon the correctness of the decision given upon that judgment. In the progress of the trial in the court below, after a witness, who had been introduced by the plaintiff, to support the promise laid in her declaration, had stated the confession to him of the defendant, as to the contract between the intestate Holley and the defendant, he remarked that, in the same conversation, he was informed by the defendant, that the contract was reduced to writing, and was in the intestate's possession, but that it was of no force, as there was no subscribing witness to it--Whereupon the defendant moved the court, and obtained its instructions to the jury, that if they believed from the evidence that the contract spoken of by the witness had been reduced to writing, they must find for the defendant. *3 On parol proof of defendant's confession of a contract, witness stated that in same conversation, defendant said it was in writing and in plaintiff's possession, the court should instruct the jury, if they so believed, the law was for defendant. The instruction thus given, we are of opinion accords strictly with the doctrine of the law of this country. Since the passage of the act of the legislature of this country, placing unsealed writings upon the same footing of sealed writings, it has been repeatedly held by this court, that assumpsit can not be maintained upon written contracts; and from the statement of the witness, the contract mentioned by him must have been made since the passage of that act; so that the court must have been correct in instructing the jury to find for the defendant, if, from the evidence, they believed the contract was committed to writing. It also appears, that after the jury had found a verdict for the defendant, a motion was made by the plaintiff for a new trial, and overruled by the court. Exceptions were taken to that opinion, and its correctness is questioned by the assignment of errors. To obtain a new trial on the ground of surprise, by an article of evidence, the affidavit should shew at least that the contrary could be proved on another trial. No error, however, is perceived in the decision refusing to award a new trial. The application for a new trial is predicated upon the alleged surprise of the plaintiff, by the testimonv of a witness introduced by her, in relation to a matter which she does not even state in her affidavit that she would be enabled on a subsequent trial to disprove, though she states, that she expects to be able to prove something inconsistent with the facts proved by the witness, by another person, whom she has not had an opportunity of seeing since the trial. Executors or administrators, plaintiffs, are not liable to judgments for costs of suits on causes of action alleged to have been made with the deceased, though determined for defendant. It was, however, irregular in the court below, to render judgment for cost against the plaintiff. The suit was brought by the plaintiff in her official character, upon a contract alleged to have been made with her intestate, and it has been heretofore decided by this court, that in such a case cost can not be awarded against an administrator or executor, though the suit be determined in favor of the defendant. Except as to the cost, the judgment must, therefore, be affirmed, and as to the cost the judgment must be reversed. FN(a) FN(a). See  1 Monroe, 260. Appeal does not lie from a judgment for costs only. 1 Dig. L. K., 381. Judgment reversed as to the costs. Each party must pay their own cost in this court. French and Hanson, for plaintiffs; Taul, for defendant. Ky.App. 1825. Holley's Adm'x v. Christopher 3 T.B.Mon. 14, 19 Ky. 14, 1825 WL 1178 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
