(Cite as: 4 Bibb 48,  7 Ky. 48 (Ky.),  1815 WL 654 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Intire v. Johnson, etc. May 23, 1815. *1 An agreement to divide the land covered by the two conflicting patents, is a good considerat'n, etc. the Court will not investigate the comparative merits of the two patents. But the one party manifested an indisposition to comply with the terms of the compromise, and sold all the land, and afterward-his assignees applied for a specific execution of the contract; but it was refused. West Headnotes Specific Performance 358 k 17 358 Specific Performance 358I Nature and Grounds of Remedy in General 358k17 k. Persons entitled to enforce performance. Most Cited Cases A. and B. agreed, in writing, to compromise their conflicting land claims;  B. conveyed to C., without any reservation as to the rights of A. C. having sold to others all the land in dispute, it was held that equity would not aid him in enforcing the original agreement. Compromise and Settlement 89 k 6(5) 89 Compromise and Settlement 89I In General 89k1 Nature and Requisites 89k6 Consideration 89k6(5) k. Conflicting titles to land. Most Cited  Cases An agreement to divide the land covered by two conflicting patents is on a good consideration. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS is an appeal from the decree of the Bourbon Circuit Court enforcing the specific execution of an agreement in writing under the hands of M'Intire and John Martin, (under whom the appellees derive their claim) compromising their interfering claims; the one held by Martin, by patent dated 1798, for 2000 acres; the other belonging to M'Intire, held by a patent of the year 1785. By which agreement it was stipulated the parties would divide the interfering land equally, and investigate such interfering claims as were adverse to both; and for the farther fulfillment of the agreement, to execute whenever called on, bonds and security to each other. The agreement of compromise was entered into the 14th of October, 1800; and the appellee Johnson claims the benefit of the arrangement under a purchase subsequently made of Martin, and the other appellees derive their interest under a subsequent purchase from Johnson. We have not thought it necessary to a determination of this cause, to investigate the relative dignity of Martin's and M'Intire's claims: for as the exhibits in the cause clearly demonstrate an interference between the lands contained within their respective patents, that interference formed properly the subject of contest, and which might be adjusted by the agreement of compromise between the parties. The specific execution of such an agreement, we do not, however, suppose can be repelled merely on the grounds that M'Intire was mistaken as to the relative dignity of his claim: for if one party to the agreement may be relieved for such a mistake, reciprocal justice requires the other should also be relieved for a like mistake; and as every compromise, where anything is surrendered contrary to right, rather implies an ignorance of right in the party making the sacrifice, the consequence of such doctrine would inevitably be to subject all such agreements to the pointed condemnation of Courts of Chancery. Were the compromise, however, procured through the fraudulent misrepresentations or concealments of Martin, it would not be contended but what a Court of Equity would not only refuse its extraordinary aid in decreeing a specific execution, but upon proper application would decree its cancelment. But as the evidence in this cause does not establish such a fraud, the claim of the appellees cannot be repelled on that ground. *2 Although the agreement of compromise may in its origin have entitled either party to the aid of equity in compelling its specific execution, it becomes proper we should inquire whether under the various circumstances attending this case, according to the rules upon which Courts of Equity act, that relief should have been withheld from the appellees? It is not every agreement which would have been enforced immediately upon its being entered into, that will be carried into effect at a subsequent period: for as such applications are made to the sound discretion of the chancellor, the complainant must not only have exercised good faith in making the agreement, but must also uniformly evince an honest design faith fully and promptly to execute his part of the contract. But in cases of an accident, design or marked intention on the part of a complainant, subsequent to making the agreement, not to be bound by or perform his part of it, Courts of Equity have, upon the principle of the party asking relief having abandoned his right to a specific execution, refused their aid. So too although in equity time is not deemed the essence of a contract, yet when a complainant is not prevented by difficulties in the title from performing his part of the contract according to the stipulations as to time, but has laid by and shown a backwardness, Courts of Equity have construed such conduct into an abandonment of right, and refused to carry the contract into specific execution. An application of these rules to the case before us, as made out in evidence, will clearly demonstrate the impropriety of decreeing a specific execution of the agreement of compromise, at the instance of the appellees: for were there no other evidence but that of the conveyance by Martin to Johnson, etc., without any reservation as to the right of M'Intire under the agreement of compromise, it might be a question whether that should not be adjudged an abandonment of the agreement. Be that however as it may, no doubt can remain but what Johnson, by selling to others all the land in contest, has evinced such an intention not to comply with the agreement on the part of Martin, as precludes him from the aid of equity in carrying the agreement into execution. The decree of the Court below must therefore be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and the bill dis missed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. McIntire v. Johnson 4 Bibb 48, 7 Ky. 48, 1815 WL 654 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
