(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 338,  10 Ky. 338 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1084 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Higgs & Porter v. Smith et al. Apr. 16, 1821. West Headnotes Fraud 184 k 35 184 Fraud 184II Actions 184II(A) Rights of Action and Defenses 184k35 k. Waiver of right of action. Most Cited  Cases Where an agreement was obtained of the defendant by the plaintiff through fraudulent representations, and the defendant, after discovering the fraud, gave a bond for the payment of money, in consideration or cancelling the agreement, it was held that the original fraud was no defense to an action on the bond. Bonds 58 k 37 58 Bonds 58I Requisites and Validity 58k37 k. Validity of assent. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k40) If the obligor knew of the fraud before he executed the bond, he cannot impeach it on that ground. Compromise and Settlement 89 k 6(4) 89 Compromise and Settlement 89I In General 89k1 Nature and Requisites 89k6 Consideration 89k6(4) k. Invalid or groundless claims. Most Cited  Cases Where the parties to a fraudulent contract compromise the dispute, and a bond is given to procure the cancellation of the contract, the compromise is founded on a sufficient consideration. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 This case turns upon the sufficiency of the second plea of the appellants, who were defendants in the court below, to bar the appellees' action which was brought upon a sealed writing. The plea in substance, after setting forth an agreement between the defendant, Higgs, and the plaintiffs, to exchange lands, alleges, that the agreement was entered into under the fraudulent misrepresentations of the plaintiffs, and having discovered the fraud, the defendant, Higgs, applied to the plaintiffs to cancel the agreement, but the plaintiffs refused to do so, unless the defendant would pay one hundred dollars; and to procure a cancelment of the agreement, the defendant promised to pay the one hundred dollars; and avers, that the writing, upon which this suit is founded, was executed by the defendant, Higgs, together with defendant, Porter, his security, to secure the payment of the one hundred dollars so agreed to be paid for the cancelment of the fraudulent agreement, and for no other consideration, &c. If a bond is given for the payment of money, to procure the cancellment of a fraudulent contract, but after the obligor knew of the fraud, the bond can not be impeached--the parties have a right to compromise their dispute. This court are unable to perceive the principle upon which the court below sustained the plea. The plea contains no suggestion of the plaintiffs' having committed any fraud in relation to the contract on which the note was executed; it barely alleges, that the agreement to exchange lands was procured through the plaintiffs' fraud; and that the fraud was known to the defendant before the note was given. On the ground of fraud, therefore, the note can not be avoided. Nor does the plea contain sufficient matter to impeach the consideration of the note. It was no doubt competent for the contracting parties to compromise the difference which arose between them in relation to the agreement to exchange lands; and such a compromise, in itself, forms a sufficient consideration to support a promise. As it was in consideration of the compromise made between the parties, therefore, that the note is alleged to have been given by the defendants, the plea can not be admitted to contain sufficient matter to impeach the consideration; and consequently the demurrer of the plaintiffs to that plea, should have been sustained. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1821. Higgs v. Smith 3 A.K.Marsh. 338, 10 Ky. 338, 1821 WL 1084 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
