(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 110,  17 Ky. 110 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1503 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Myers v. Bishop. Oct. 14, 1824. *1 Pleading by Defendant, Verdict, Evidence, New Trial. ERROR TO THE NICHOLAS CIRCUIT?? JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 436 343 Sales 343VIII Remedies of Buyer 343VIII(D) Actions and Counterclaims for Breach of Warranty 343k433 Pleading 343k436 k. Matter in Defense of Liability for Breach.  Most Cited Cases A plea of "non infregit" to a breach of a covenant of the vendor for the soundness of the property is not good on demurrer, as it ought to traverse the allegation of soundness contained in the breach. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This was an action of covenant, brought in the circuit court by Myers, upon a stipulation warranting a negro woman sound and healthy, except her toes, which were frost bitten, contained in a bill of sale which was executed by Bishop. The breach contained in the declaration alleges, that at the time of executing the bill of sale, the negro woman, except her toes, which were frost bitten, was not sound and healthy, but was unsound, crippled and weak in her back. The plea of Bishop alleges, that he has not broken his covenant, in manner and form as charged in the declaration. To this plea, Myers filed a general replication. A jury was called to try the issue, and a verdict was found for Bishop. A motion was then made by Myers for a new trial, upon the ground that the verdict was contrary to law and evidence; but the motion was overruled, and judgment rendered in bar of Myer's action. To reverse that judgment, this writ of error has been prosecuted. The assignment of errors questions, as well the sufficiency of the plea of Bishop, as the opinion of the court overruling the motion for a new trial. (1.) The plea is evidently not such an one as would be sustained upon a demurrer at common law. Instead of denying that he had broken his covenant in technical strictness, Bishop should have traversed the unsoundness of the negro, alleged in the declaration. (1) Plea of not infregit, &c., to a breach of the covenant of the vendor for the soundness of the property, is not good on demurrer; it ought to traverse the allegation of unsoundness, contained in the breach. But the objection is cured by verdict. It does not, however, thence follow, that the objection to the plea ought now to be sustained in this court; for an issue was taken to the plea, and a verdict found by the jury, and many exceptions to pleas, though sustainable at common law upon demurrer, will not be availing after verdict, and the objection to the plea of Bishop, is one of that sort. If, in truth, there has been no breach of the covenant, Myers undoubtedly has no right of action, and after being informed by the plea that Bishop would, in his defense, rely upon the covenant not having been broken, and after failing, before the trial in the court below, to object to the plea, he should not, in this court, for the first time, be permitted to avail himself of the objection. *2 (2.) With respect to the other objection taken in the assignment of errors, there is more doubt. We think, however, that the facts exhibited in the bill of exceptions, are not sufficiently strong to justify this court, contrary to the opinion of the court below, in pronouncing the verdict contrary to evidence; and if it be not contrary to evidence, it is impossible to say, that the verdict is against law. (2) The evidence must be strong for this court to set aside a verdict for being contrary to it, against the opinion of the circuit court. The evidence is, no doubt, sufficient to authorize the conclusion, that the negro was unsound at the trial; but there is a lack of evidence to show conclusively, that she was so when the bill of sale was given by Bishop; and to have authorized the jury to find a verdict for Myers, the evidence ought to have satisfied them, that at the time the bill of sale was given, the negro was unsound. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Barry for plaintiff; Triplett, Webber and Garrard, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Myers v. Bishop 1 T.B.Mon. 110, 17 Ky. 110, 1824 WL 1503 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
