(Cite as: 4 Bibb 566,  7 Ky. 566 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1108 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. January v. Bradford. Jun. 9, 1817. *1 That a notice to quash an execution and sale made under it, did not specify the error, cannot be assigned for error in this Court. An obligor who has given a bond forthe conveyance of a lot, cannot without the assent of the obligee, make him a deed, and thereby have it sold for the payment of the purchase money. A sale made under such a state of case quashed. That a notice was not given to the purchaser of the lot that a motion would be made to quash the sale, cannot be assigned for error by the pl'tf in the execution. An equitable interest in land is not liable to execution. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 40 161 Execution 161II Property Subject to Execution 161k40 k. Equitable Estates or Interests in General. Most Cited Cases An equitable interest in land cannot be seized and sold on execution. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 155 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(B) Conveyance 400k155 k. Approval and Acceptance. Most Cited  Cases An obligor who has given a bond for the conveyance of a lot cannot, without the assent of the obligee, make him a deed and thereby have it sold for the payment of the purchase money. The conveyance, not being accepted by the purchaser, does not vest in him the legal title. Appeal and Error 30 k 225 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(B) Objections and Motions, and Rulings Thereon 30k225 k. Execution and Enforcement of Judgment. Most Cited  Cases That a notice to quash an execution, and a sale made under it, did not specify the error, cannot be assigned for error in the court of appeals. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. JANUARY having sold and executed his obligation to convey to Bradford, a lot of ground in Lexington, Bradford gave his obligation to January, binding himself to pay the purchase money at the several times agreed upon by the parties. Bradford failing to pay according to his obligation, suit was brought by January, and judgment recovered at law; and after Bradford had transferred his equity in the lot to Arnold, who had transferred it to Fowler, January, without the assent of Bradford, executed to him a deed of conveyance; and having ackowledged it before the clerk of the County Court of Fayette, caused an execution which issued upon his judgment to be levied upon the lot, and exposed the same to sale. Bradford then, after notifying January for that purpose, moved the Court to quash the execution, sale, etc.; and the Court being of opinion the legal title still remained in January quashed the execution and sale; and to reverse that decision, January has appealed to this Court. Against these proceedings it is objected that because the notice fails to specify the grounds upon which the application would be made to the Court to quash the sale, etc., that the judgment ought to be reversed. *2 We are unable, however, to perceive any weight in the objection. If owing to the uncertainty of the notice January had been unprepared at the trial to defend the motion, he should have applied to the Court for a continuance; but having failed to do so, it is too late now in this Court for the first time to object to the vagueness of the notice. It is also objected that the Court should not have proceeded to quash the sale, without notice having been previously given to the purchaser. As the purchaser had no notice of the motion, there is no doubt his interest cannot in any manner be affected by the decision; but no reason is perceived for reversing the judgment at the instance of January, because of the failure to give notice to the purchaser. But it is again contended that the Court erred in quashing the proceedings for the reasons alleged in their opinion. That an equitable interest in lands is not subject to sale by execution, has, by the repeated decisions of this Court,FN(a) been incontrovertibly settled; and if so, there can be no question but the land purchased by Bradford was improperly exposed to sale. FN(a). See  2 Bibb 94, Allen v. Sanders. It is true a conveyance appears to have been made by January before the execution was levied upon the land; but that conveyance, as it was not accepted by Bradford, cannot, under the circumstances of this case, have vested in him the legal title. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1817. January v. Bradford 4 Bibb 566, 7 Ky. 566, 1817 WL 1108 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
