(Cite as: 4 Litt. 21,  14 Ky. 21 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1225 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. May, &c. v. Jones, &c. October 8, 1823. *1 FROM THE HART CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. CHRISTOPHER TOMPKINS SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 18 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(B) Actual Possession 20k18 k. Residence. Most Cited Cases Actual residence is necessary to protection under the seven-years limitation law of 1809. Evidence 157 k 222(2) 157 Evidence 157VII Admissions 157VII(B) By Parties or Others Interested in Event 157k221 Parties of Record 157k222 In  General 157k222(2) k. Statements as to Particular Facts  in General. Most Cited Cases The admissions of a person as to the person from whom he derived possession of land, made after he has abandoned the possession, are inadmissible in evidence between the parties. HARDIN for appellants; no attorney for appellees. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was on ejectment, brought in the circuit court by the present appellants, to recover from the appellees the possession of a tract of land in the county of Hart. The admissions of the occupier of land, made while in the occupation, as to the person from whom he derived possession, may be given in evidence as a part of the res gestae. But such admissions, made after he has abandoned the possession, are inadmissible. Vide Phillips' Evidence, N. Y. Ed. 201-2. The appellants claim the land under their deceased ancestors, John May, John Bannister, Kenon Jones, Thomas Shore and Christopher M'Connico; and on the trial in the circuit court, introduced in evidence a patent which issued from the commonwealth of Virginia, in 1787, to their said ancestors, and produced witnesses conducing to prove that the patent covered the land in contest; that the defendants resided on the land at the commencement of this suit, and that the patentees had all previously departed this life, leaving the appellants their legal heirs and representatives. The appellees claim the land under a patent which issued from this state, in the year 1800, to Jacob Funk; and on the trial in the circuit court, produced in evidence the patent to Funk, a deed from two of the heirs of Funk to Bennom Shaw, bearing date in 1803; a deed from Shaw to John Swearing, of subsequent date, though in the same year, and a written agreement bearing date in 1820, entered into between David Swearing, one of the children of John Swearing, and the appellee, Edward Jones, in which agreement the said David Swearing stipulated to convey to the said Jones, all the right and title of his deceased father, John Swearing, to the land now in contest. The appellees then introduced witnesses, conducing to prove the death of the patentee Funk and that the persons who made the conveyance to Shaw, were his legal representatives; and also proved the death of John Swearing, and that David Swearing, who entered into the agreement with the appellee, Jones, is one among eight children of the said John, all of whom are still living. *2 A man may be in continued possession of land for seven years, without actual residence thereon; but such possession without actual residence will not bring him within the protection of the seven years' limitation act. 1 Litt. Rep. 173, 2 Litt. Rep. 160, 3 Litt. Rep. 446. The appellees, moreover, rely upon a continued adverse possession by them and those under whom they claim, for upwards of twenty years before the commencement of the suit against them; and introduced witnesses conducing to prove that John Swearing, the father of David Swearing, settled upon the land about twenty-three years before the trial in the circuit court, and that he continued to reside thereon until his death; that David Swearing, who is one of the children of John, continued to reside on the land from the time of his father's death until about four or five years before the trial, and then removed from the land; that after David Swearing had left the land, a certain Leezer settled thereon, and continued there to reside until the appellee, Coonrod, removed upon the land. It was also proved, that the land remained vacant for one or two years after David Swearing left it, before the possession was taken by Leezer. One witness, moreover, proved that after Leezer left the land, he said that he had occupied it under a contract of purchase, which he had made with David Swearing; but finding he was unable to make the payments, he had cancelled the contract, and given up the possession of the land. The witness also stated that he heard similar confessions from Swearing also. To so much of the foregoing evidence as relates to the confessions and statements of Leezer and Swearing, the counsel for the appellants objected, as being incompetent; but the objections were overruled, and the evidence permitted to go to the jury. After the evidence was gone through on both sides, the court was moved by the appellants, for various instructions to the jury; but the motion was overruled, and other instructions given. A verdict was found by the jury in favor of the appellees, and judgment thereon rendered against the appellants. With respect to the decision of the circuit court in overruling the objections taken by the appellants to the evidence, the principle is not perceived upon which it can be sustained. To bring themselves within the operation of the statute of limitations, it was unquestionably incumbent on the appellees to prove a continued possession of the land for the lapse of time prescribed by the statute; and it is presumed that it was for that purpose the witness was called to prove the statements of Leezer, after he had abandoned the possession, as well as those of Swearing. For although the witness does not, in express language, say that either Leezer or Swearing stated the possession to have been continued; yet, as it had been proved by others, that the land had been previously possessed by Swearing and his father, for many years prior to Swearing's removing from the land, it may have been rationally supposed, that proof of Leezer having obtained the land under a contract with Swearing, would repel the presumption of Swearing's having abandoned the possession, which might, and probably would have been urged, from the fact of Swearing's having removed from the land and left it vacant. *3 But whilst the propriety of the appellees' proving the fact of Leezer's having obtained the possession of the land under a contract with Swearing, is conceded, neither the confessions nor statements of Leezer or Swearing, after the possession was abandoned by Leezer, can be admitted competent for that purpose. If those statements and confession had been made whilst Leezer was in the actual occupation of the land, they would, no doubt, have been competent evidence. They would then have formed part of the res gestae, and be properly admissible for the purpose of illustrating the true character of the possession. But the statements and confessions which the witness proved, were made after Leezer had abandoned the possession, and not whilst he was in possession. The statements and confessions, therefore, related to, and were designed to prove antecedent facts, the existence whereof, according to the established rules of evidence, ought to have been proved by witnesses conusant of those facts, and not by evidence of what they may have been heard to say, when not on oath. It follows, therefore, that the judgment must be reversed; but as the cause must be remanded to the court below, for further proceedings, it may not be improper to remark, that we are of opinion that the instructions which were given by the court to the jury, do not strictly accord with what we suppose to be the correct doctrine of the law. Conceding that the appellees showed in evidence a sufficient title to bring them within the operation of the statute of limitations, of February, 1809, when united to such a possession as is required by the act, still we should entertain the opinion, that the court erred in instructing the jury to find for the appellees, if they were of opinion, from the evidence, that the appellees and those under whom they claim, had been in the continued possession of the land for seven years next before the commencement of this suit, under the title produced; for there may have been a continued possession of the land for seven years, without an actual residence thereon during that time; and according to the most obvious import of the act, there must have been an actual residence on the land in contest, for the time prescribed in the act, to authorize the jury to find for the appellees, under the operation of the act. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. May v. Jones 4 Litt. 21, 14 Ky. 21, 1823 WL 1225 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
