(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 403,  10 Ky. 403 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1112 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Richard M. Johnston v. Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank. May 30, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 40 302 Pleading 302II Declaration, Complaint, Petition, or Statement 302k40 k. Time for Filing or Service. Most Cited Cases Sess.Acts 1809, p. 141, permits plaintiff to file his declaration with the clerk before the writ issues, but declares that, if the suit be brought before filing the declaration, plaintiff cannot demand a trial "until the term succeeding the one in which the declaration may be filed."  Held that, where a declaration was not filed before the issuing of the writ, it could not be filed in vacation, but must be filed in term time, and no trial could be had until the term succeeding that at which it was filed. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This writ of error is prosecuted by Johnston to reverse a judgment recovered against him by default, in an action brought by the bank. The writ issued in May, 1819, and the declaration was lodged with the clerk in vacation, on the 24th of July, 1819, and without an entry having been made in court of the filing of the declaration, and without an appearance by Johnston, judgment was taken against him at the March term, 1820. Whether, under these circumstances, the judgment was regularly taken, is the only question to be decided in this court. We think it was not. Under the act of the 31st of January, 1810, regulating proceedings in suits at law and equity, (session acts, 1809, page 141), we understand that, where a suit at law is commenced previous to filing the declaration, the plaintiff is not authorized to file his declaration in vacation, but the declaration must be filed in term time. Where a declaration is not filed before the issuing of the writ, it must be filed in term time, and no trial shall be had till the term succeeding that at which it is filed. The first section of the act permits the plaintiff to file his declaration with the clerk before the writ issues; but the fifteenth section declares expressly, that if the suit be brought previous to filing the declaration, the plaintiff shall not have a right to demand a trial until the term succeeding the one in which the declaration may be filed; and moreover provides, that the plaintiff shall pay all costs previous to the declaration being filed. So much of this latter section as directs the plaintiff shall pay costs, where his suit is brought before the declaration is filed, has by a subsequent act, been repealed; but that part of the section which directs the time and manner of filing the declaration, and the time when the trial may be had, remains in full force; and by the provisions still in force, if the declaration be not filed previous to the writ being issued, the plaintiff has no right to demand a trial until the term succeeding that in which the declaration is filed. *2 If the defendant appears and makes no objections to the trial on account of the declaration not having been regularly filed, he will be presumed to have waived the objections, and would not, thereafter, in this court, for the first time, be permitted to question the regularity of the trial; but Johnston seems not to have appeared in this case, and consequently he can not be presumed either to have consented to the trial, or waived any objections to its regularity. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Bibb & Crittenden for plaintiff, Wickliffe for defendants. Ky.App. 1821. Johnston v. Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank 3 A.K.Marsh. 403, 10 Ky. 403, 1821 WL 1112 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
