(Cite as: 4 Bibb 195,  7 Ky. 195 (Ky.),  1815 WL 720 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thompson v. Mason and wife; Mason and wife v. Thompson. Oct. 10, 1815. *1 Where M claimed through G, in a suit by M against G and C, who held the legal title, the answer of C, that he had sold to G, and the claim by C to have purchased of G, is sufficient evidence of G's equitable title to the land in another suit. A deed obtained by M, by virtue of a decree afterward reversed, will not be such a legal title as to enable the holder thereby to rebut the claim of the complainant (seeking to be restored to the land and the legal title), on the ground of a verbal contract before decided to be invalid, nor can such a deed so obtained take the case out of the statute of frauds and perjuries. T, who obtained the legal title from M, with notice of the claim of G, before the purchase money was paid, cannot be protected as a bona fide purchaser without notice. M, who is permitted to enjoy an estate, and makes improvements dnring his ?? cupancy, is in equity entitled to remuneration for the improvements. And so also is T, who purchased of M, entitled to have his improvements set off against the rents. At what time the charge for rents shall commence--See Thomas v. Thomas, vol. 1, 219--vol. 2, Patrick v. Marshall, 45; Winn's devisees v. Redman, 84--Allen v. Sanders, 94-- Hart v. Baylor, Hard. 597. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 103(1) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185VIII Requisites and Sufficiency of Writing 185k103 Nature and Form of Memorandum in General 185k103(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where, in pursuance of a decree enforcing a parol sale, the vendor makes a deed, and the decree is afterwards reversed, the deed will not operate to confirm the parol sale, but is entirely invalid. Judicial Sales 229 k 58 229 Judicial Sales 229k58 k. Grantees of Purchasers. Most Cited Cases A. obtained land by virtue of a conveyance made under a decree of court, which decree was afterwards reversed.  B., the devisee of A.'s grantor, brought a bill for a reconveyance. It appearing that C., a purchaser from A., had notice of B.'s equity, it was decreed that he should surrender to them the title. Implied and Constructive Contracts 205H k 7 205H Implied and Constructive Contracts 205HI Nature and Grounds of Obligation 205HI(A) In General 205Hk7 k. Use and Occupation of Realty. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 397k1  Use and Occupation) Where land is conveyed under a decree of court which is afterwards reversed, a purchaser from the grantee under such decree, having notice of the equities, on surrender of the land, is liable for the rent from the time the grantee obtained possession of the land, less improvements made upon the land. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. CRAIGMILES pretending a right in equity to a tract of land under a parol contract made with Samuel Grant in his lifetime, to obtain a conveyance exhibited his bill in the late Quarter Session Court for Scott county, against the heirs of Grant and Elijah Craig, in whom the legal title then was. The cause having come on to a final hearing, that Court, at the April term, 1796, decreed Craig to convey the land to Craigmiles. Subsequent to this, in the month of June, 1796, Craig executed a deed for the land to Craigmiles, without mentioning in the deed it was made in pursuance to the decree, but expressing it to have been executed in consideration of ten pounds, to him in hand paid, etc. *2 Several years after the execution of this deed, Craigmiles sold the land to Thompson, and by deed bearing date the 25th of September, 1806, conveyed the same to him. Subsequent to the making of the deed by Craig to Craigmiles, but whether before or after that from Craigmiles to Thompson, does not clearly appear, the heirs of Grant prosecuted a writ of error to the decree of the Quarter Session Court made in favor of Craigmiles; and upon the cause being heard in this Court, that decree was reversed, as well on the grounds that no sufficient contract was proved to have been made between Grant and Craigmiles, as on the grounds that the contract, if made, was by parol, and under the statute against frauds and perjuries could not be specifically executed. Mason and wife then exhibited their bill in equity, in which they set forth the preceding circumstances, and claim the land in the right of the wife as devisee under the will of Samuel Grant; and they farther charge that the deed from Craig to Craigmiles was made in pursuance to the decree of the Court of Quarter Session, and for no other consideration; and allege that Thompson purchased and obtained a title from Craigmiles with full knowledge of their claim; and pray that he may be compelled to convey the land and account for rents, etc. Thompson by his answer admits Craigmiles prosecuted the suit against Craig and Grant's heirs, and obtained a decree in the Court of Quarter Session for a conveyance of the land devised by Samuel Grant to Mrs. Mason; that Craig conveyed the land to Craigmiles, and that the decree has been since reversed by the decree of this Court; but he denies the conveyance by Craig was made in virtue of the decree; alleges it was made for the consideration stated in the deed, and insists that Craig and Mason and wife are concluded by the deed from questioning the consideration; and also relies upon his being a purchaser from Craigmiles for a valuable consideration without notice. He moreover contends that Craigmiles in equity was entitled to the land, and insists that equity will not divest him of his legal advantage. On a hearing the Court below decreed Thompson to convey the land by deed of special warranty; and also, after having an account taken of the rents and profits and improvements, etc., decreed Thompson should pay the balance which was found against him. From this decree both parties have appealed to this Court. As Mason and wife were complainants in the Court below, it was incumbent on them, before they could obtain relief, to establish a clear equity existing in Samuel Grant, through whom they derive title, at the time of his decease. Before we proceed to inquire into the equity of Samuel Grant, it may be proper, however, to dispose of an objection to Mason, etc.'s right to relief, raised in argument, through the equity of Craigmiles, under a contract with Samuel Grant. It was contended that although in consequence of the statute against frauds and perjuries, the contract between Craigmiles and Grant could not regularly be specifically decreed, yet that contract gave Craigmiles a moral right to have title; and as Craig has conveyed the title, though it may have been made in pursuance to a decree since reversed, equity should not interpose to divest Thompson, who claims under him, of a legal advantage. How far the conclusion drawn in argument would follow, were the premises assumed admitted to be correct, need not nor would we be understood as having decided; for as according to the opinion of this Court in the case of Grant's heirs and Craigmiles (vol. 1,203), the decree of the Court of Quarter Session was reversed on the grounds in part that no contract was made by the ancestor of the former with the latter, that opinion was conclusive not only between the parties then before the Court, but also against Thompson, who derives his claim through Craigmiles, as well to show no such contract was made, as to prove that if made it could not, according to the provisions of the statute, be specifically enforced by the aid of a Court of Equity. Craigmiles, therefore, according to the former opinion of this Court, can have acquired no right, either moral or equitable, under the pretended contract with Grant; and consequently Thompson cannot be protected by any equity growing out of that transaction. The right of Grant, then, whatever it may be, was transferred by his will to Mrs. Mason; and whether it is of that nature which will authorize a decree for the land, forms the main subject of inquiry. *3 That Grant was equitably entitled to the land, does not admit of a doubt. The bill of Craigmiles formerly brought, was predicated upon the supposition of the existence of such a right; and Craig in whom all admit the legal title to have been, and through whom both parties deduce their claim, by his answer to the bill of Craigmiles admits Grant's right. In a contest between Craig and Grant, the admission of Craig in his answer would most clearly be sufficient evidence of Grant's equity to authorize a decree in his favor; and as Thompson claims through Craig, according to the settled rules of evidence, those confessions with respect to an interest subsequently acquired, are competent evidence against him, and when taken in connection with other circumstances existing in this cause, conduce indisputably to prove Grant's equity. Assuming as sufficiently established, Grant's equity, and assuming also what is admitted by the answer of Thompson, that Grant devised that interest to the wife of Mason, it cannot be material to inquire whether the deed executed by Craig to Craigmiles was or was not made in pursuance of the decree of the Court of Quarter Session. In either point of view Thompson assumes precisely the same attitude with respect to the present contest. In either case Grant's equity is prior, and although the proof is clear Craigmiles knew of the existence of that equity, to overreach the legal title in Thompson, who is a purchaser for a valuable consideration, it is necessary he should have had notice also; and if he had notice, whether the deed was made by Craig in pursuance of the decree, or as is contended by Thompson, for the consideration of ten pounds paid by Craigmiles, in either case the equity of Grant, to which Mason and wife have shown themselves entitled, must prevail. That Thompson had notice of the equity claimed by Mason and wife, we are of opinion the evidence satisfactorily proves. From the circumstances detailed by the witnesses, it is strongly to be inferred he had notice before he made the purchase from Craigmiles; but independent of those circumstances, it is expressly proven he had notice before he made payment of the consideration; and according to the well settled rules of chancery practice, notice either before the obtaining the title or before payment of the consideration, is sufficient for the purpose of overreaching the legal title in the hands of a purchaser in favor of the prior equity. Mason and wife having, therefore, shown themselves entitled to the prior equity, and having also shown that Thompson and all those through whom he claims had full knowledge of that equity, the Court below properly decreed Thompson should surrender the title to the complainants in that Court. If we are correct in the view we have taken as to the rights of the parties, it necessarily results the decree, in taking an account of the rents, properly made them commence at the date Craigmiles obtained the possession of the land; for as Craigmiles must have had notice at that time of Grant's right, according to well settled principles the charge for rent should take date from that period. *4 With respect to the improvements for which Thompson should be compensated, we have had more difficulty. As it appears, however, that Craigmiles obtained the possession of, and continued to occupy the land by the assent of Grant in his lifetime, and that of his executors afterward, though that possession was not connected with a valid claim in equity to the land, yet we suppose under such a state of case the representatives of Grant should not be permitted to obtain a recovery for the rent, without also accounting for the improvements made by Craigmiles, and that the Court below correctly so determined. With respect to the improvements made by Thompson, we are also of opinion the decree is correct; for although he had notice of the claim of the complainants in that Court, yet as he purchased from Craigmiles, who at the time held the possession, and had obtained a decree of a Court of competent jurisdiction for the land, he should surely have a credit in the charge of rents for such improvements as were made by him upon the land. Upon the whole, we are of opinion the decree of the Court below, both as to the right to the land and the rents and improvements, is correct, and must be affirmed with damages against Thompson upon the amount decreed against him in that Court, and each party must pay their own costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Thompson v. Mason 4 Bibb 195, 7 Ky. 195, 1815 WL 720 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
