(Cite as: 4 Bibb 239,  7 Ky. 239 (Ky.),  1815 WL 745 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Outton, etc. v. Mitchell. Nov. 7, 1815. *1 The vendor has a lien in equity on the land for payment of the purchase money, not withstanding he conveys the title--Accord. Voorhies v. Instone, etc., vol. 3 p. 354. But it is not proper to decree that part to be sold which has been previously sold under execution. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 266(8) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k266 Waiver, Loss, or Discharge of Lien 400k266(8) k. Taking Other Security and Enforcement  Thereof. Most Cited Cases A. sold a tract of land to B., obtained a judgment for part of the purchase money, and caused one-half of the land to be sold on execution. At this sale C. purchased and obtained a conveyance.  A. brought his bill to subject the whole tract to the payment of the purchase money, and obtained a decree, which decree was reversed as to the moiety bought by C. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was a suit in chancery, brought by Mitchell in the Court below for the purpose of subjecting a tract of land previously sold and conveyed by him to Outton, to the payment of the purchase money. It appears from the exhibits in the cause that previous to the commencement of the suit in the Court below, Mitchell had obtained a judgment at law against Thomas Outton, one of the defendants in that Court, for part of the purchase money; and that Levi Outton, another defendant, purchased at a sheriff's sale, made in virtue of an execution on that judgment, one moiety of the land sold by Mitchell, and obtained a conveyance therefor from the sheriff. Notwithstanding this, however, the Court below by their decree made the whole of the land subject to that part of the purchase money which remains unpaid, and directed so much thereof to be sold as might be necessary for that purpose. With respect to the merits of the decree, we are of opinion it cannot be sustained. Mitchell no doubt retained a lien upon the land for the purchase money, and on the failure of Outton to make payment it was perfectly correct to apply to a Court of Chancery for the purpose of subjecting the land to that demand; but as part of the land had been previously sold under an execution at the instance of Mitchell, to satisfy part of the same demand, it was unquestionably improper by a decree again to order a sale of that part. So far, therefore, as the decree of the Court below goes to subject that part of the land purchased by Levi Outton under the execution to the payment of Mitchell's demand, it is erroneous, and for that cause must be reversed; but as the decree in every other respect is correct, the cause must be remanded to that Court and a decree there entered conformable to this opinion. The plaintiffs must recover their costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Outton v. Mitchell 4 Bibb 239, 7 Ky. 239, 1815 WL 745 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
