(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 287,  19 Ky. 287 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1297 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Moseley v. Armstrong, &c. Oct. 7, 1826. *1 Usury. Evidence. Answers. Practice. APPEAL FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Witnesses 410 k 98 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k91 Interest of Party or Other Person 410k98 k. Interest Arising from Particular Obligations  or Transactions. Most Cited Cases A. executed several notes for the accommodation of B., who assigned them to C. as security for an alleged usurious loan.  A. afterwards brought his bill to enjoin judgments which C. had obtained on the notes. Held, that B. was not a competent witness for A. Bills and Notes 56 k 304 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(B) Indorsement for Transfer 56k303 Rights of Indorser 56k304 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A. executed several notes for the accommodation of B., who assigned them to C. as security for an alleged usurious loan. Held that, on judgment against him at the suit of the holder, A. could not have a decree over against B. until he had paid the amount of the judgments. Equity 150 k 344 150 Equity 150V Evidence 150k338 Answer as Evidence 150k344 k. For or Against Codefendant. Most Cited  Cases A. executed several notes for the accommodation of B., who assigned them to C. as security for an alleged usurious loan.  A. afterwards brought his bill to enjoin judgments which C. had obtained on the notes.  Held, that the answer of B., who was made a co-defendant, was not evidence against C. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court, dismissing a bill exhibited by Moseley, and dissolving his injunction, with damages and cost. Bill for injunction against judgments at law. The injunction went to restrain Armstrong from coercing the payment of judgments, which, as the assignee of Gore, he recovered upon notes given to Gore by Moseley; and the object of the bill is to be relieved against the judgments, upon the grounds-- 1st. That the notes were given without any good or valuable consideration; and-- Grounds of equity. 2nd. That the consideration, if any, was an usurious contract for the loan of money, by Armstrong to Gore. Armstrong and Gore were both made defendants to the bill, and answered separately. The answer of Gore admits the usury charged in the bill, but in his answer, Armstrong, denies that any such usurious contract was made, insists that the notes were given for a valuable consideration, and in every material point, puts Moseley upon the proof of the facts charged in his bill. Answers of Gore and Armstrong. The deposition of Gore was taken by Moseley, and it is the only testimony in the cause, conducing to prove any thing material to the right of Moseley to relief; but upon being excepted to by Armstrong, the deposition, was excluded by the court. The first question, therefore, to which the attention of the court will be directed, involves the inquiry, whether or not the court was correct in rejecting the deposition. *2 Questions as to Gore's deposition. In his deposition, we are told by Gore, that no consideration was actually paid by him to Moseley for the notes, but that the notes were executed by Moseley, to enable him, by assigning them to Armstrong, to obtain from Armstrong a loan of money, and that the notes were afterwards applied to that purpose, and assigned to Armstrong to secure the payment of the money, which Armstrong advanced under an usurious contract, to receive more than six per centum per annum interest. Gore's relation to the contest, and evidence. In the establishment of these facts, the court below were of opinion, that Gore is interested, and as such, is an incompetent witness for Moseley in the present contest. The interest of Gore was not denied in argument, and it was admitted that in the general, the deposition of an interested person, is incompetent evidence, but it was contended, that Gore has also an interest favorable to the success of Armstrong, and being interested for both parties, it was insisted that he is a competent witness, and that his deposition ought not to have been excluded. We can not, however, admit, that the interest which Gore has for Armstrong, is equal to that which he has for Moseley. According to the statement contained in the deposition, the notes were executed by Moseley for the accommodation of Gore, and of course, Gore must be responsible to Moseley for whatever sum Armstrong succeeds in ultimately recovering; so that on the part of Moseley, Gore must have an interest equal to whatever Moseley has to pay. As for example, if, in consequence of the contract between Gore and Armstrong being proved to be usurious, a decree should be pronounced, exonerating Moseley from the payment of any thing but the principal sum loaned by Armstrong, it is evident that Gore would have only to refund the principal to Moseley, whereas if Moseley fails to obtain any relief against the notes, Gore will be liable to him for their full amount, with interest and cost. But the case is otherwise as to Gore's liability to Armstrong. The assignment of the notes to Armstrong, prima facie, imposes upon Gore a liability to Armstrong, equal to whatever Armstrong may fail in recovering of the notes from Moseley; but if it be true, as stated in the deposition of Gore, that the assignment was made under an usurious contract for the loan of money in 1815, it is perfectly clear, that there can be no recovery of him by Armstrong, though in consequence of the usury, Moseley were released by a decree in this case, from the payment of any thing but the sum actually loaned by Armstrong. It follows, therefore, that the interest of Gore preponderates decidedly in favor of Moseley, and that the court consequently decided correctly, in excluding his deposition. Interest of the witness being found to preponderate in favor of the party offering him, he is incompetent. Assignee of an obligation borrowed by assignor and assigned to secure an usurious loan, as known and understood by all, could not, under the former statute, recover of assignor. *3 The deposition of Gore out of the cause, there is ne evidence upon which a decree can be pronounced in favor of Moseley, unless, as was also contended in argument, the answer of Gore is to be taken as evidence against Armstrong. But if, owing to his interest, Gore is an incompetent witness for Moseley, it would be difficult to assign a satisfactory reason for making his answer evidence against Armstrong. There is, however, no necessity for this suggestion. Gore is a co-defendant with Armstrong, and it has long since been decided by this court, and the principle repeatedly acted upon in subsequent cases, that the answer of one defendant is no evidence against another defendant, although that other claims through or under the defendant whose answer is attempted to be used as evidence, unless by adoption or otherwise it be made so, which is not the case in the present contest. Answer of one defendant is not evidence against another, though the latter claim, under the former, except where it is adopted and so admitted to be true. But it was again contended, that if the court below were correct in not giving relief against Armstrong, yet as Gore is a party, there ought to have been a decree over against him in favor of Moseley. We would, however, here barely remark, that whatever legal liability Gore may have come under by his contract with Moseley, until the money is paid by Moseley, he can have no right to a decree in equity against Gore, if after paying the money it would be important for a court of equity to give relief. One loaning his note to raise money upon, by an usurious borrowing, can not have a decree against the borrower. The decree must be affirmed, with cost, and damages upon the damages decreed in the court below. Triplett, for plaintiff; Jas. Trimble, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Moseley v. Armstrong 3 T.B.Mon. 287, 19 Ky. 287, 1826 WL 1297 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
