(Cite as: 4 Bibb 5,  7 Ky. 5 (Ky.),  1815 WL 629 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Geohegan v. Eckles. Apr. 7, 1815. *1 A copy of a record of trial by two justices, constituting an examining Court, certified as a copy by one of the justices, without proof that it was an examined copy, is not to be received in evidence. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 345(2) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k345 Requisites of Exemplification or Certificate 157k345(2) k. Judicial Acts, Records, and Proceedings.  Most Cited Cases A copy of a record of a trial by two justices, constituting an examining court, certified as a copy by one of the justices, without proof that it was an examined copy, is not to be received as evidence. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was an action brought by Eckles in the Court below, against Geohegan, for a malicious prosecution. On the trial in that Court, judgment was obtained in favor of Eckles; to reverse which Geohegan has prosecuted this writ of error with supersedeas. The first point for decision grows out of exceptions taken to the opinion of that Court, in admitting as evidence before the jury, a paper purporting to be a copy of the record of the proceedings had in the prosecution. The paper was attested by one of the justices constituting the examining Court, by whom the prosecution was tried, and read as evidence without further proof of its being an examined copy; and it is objected that in the absence of such proof, it should have been authenticated under the seal of the Court. At common law the bare attestation of a copy of a record by the Court or any member thereof, was not deemed such an authentication as would make the copy legal evidence; but as the seals of Courts were supposed to be known by every person, copies authenticated under the seal of the Court, were admissible evidence without further proof--Peak's Evid. 30, Gil. Evid. 14. Testing this case by this rule of the common law, as the paper used as evidence was not authenticated under the seal of the Court, the Court below clearly erred in admitting it. But it is contended that by the act of 1806 (3d Littell, page 375), justices of the peace are required to deliver copies of their records attested by themselves to any person who may apply for them; and hence it is urged as the law has authorized and required justices to deliver and attest copies of their proceedings, such copies, when so authenticated, should be received without furthur proof. The principle will not be controverted, but admitted as incontrovertibly settled, that wherever it is made the duty of an officer to deliver out and authenticate copies, there, on account of the confidence reposed in him, the law receives his copies without further proof. Peak's Evid. 31. The application of this principle will also be admitted to all those cases coming within the statute of 1806; but we conceive the paper in question is not of that character to be in any respect influenced by that statute. That act by its letter applies only to the case of the records of justices acting in their individual characters; and when it is recollected the law constituting the Court, a copy of whose proceedings the paper in question purports to be, was enacted since the act of 1806: it is manifest the makers of the law could not have intended to embrace such a case. As, therefore, the paper in question does not appear to be such a copy as is pro vided for by the act of 1806, it should not have been admitted as evidence without proof of its being an examined copy; and the Court below consequently erred in admitting it to be used as evidence before the jury. The judgment of the Court must therefore for that cause be reversed; the cause remanded to that Court for a new trial. The appellant must recover his costs in this Court. Ky.App. 1815. Geohegan v. Eckles 4 Bibb 5, 7 Ky. 5, 1815 WL 629 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
