(Cite as: 5 Litt. 30,  15 Ky. 30 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1363 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mattox v. Oldham. Apr. 9, 1824. *1 FROM THE PULASKI CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JOHN L. BRIDGES SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 156 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(B) Conveyance 400k156 k. Production and Delivery of Vendor's Title Deeds.  Most Cited Cases In an action of covenant to make a good and sufficient title to a tract of land, the production of a deed to the covenantee without evidence conducing to show that the person making the deed was possessed of the title when it was made will not support the issue on the part of the defendant. CRITTENDEN for plaintiff; WICKLIFFE for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This was an action of covenant, brought by Mattox in the court below, upon an obligation executed by Oldham, conditioned that the said Oldham should, on or before the first day of November next after the date thereof, make or cause Isham Farris to make unto said Mattox, a good and sufficient title to a certain tract of land in the obligation described. Covenant, on a bond to make a good and sufficient title to a tract of land; on the trial of an issue whether a good and sufficient title was made, the production of a deed to the covenantee, without evidence conducing to show that the person making the deed was possessed of the title when it was made, will not support the issue on the part of the defendant; nor will evidence proving an acceptance of the deed by the covenantee, authorize the jury to infer that the person making the deed held the title. Several pleas were filed by Oldham, and the issues made up by the parties, each in substance involves the question whether or not a good and sufficient title was in fact made to Mattox. The jury found a verdict for Oldham, and judgment was thereon rendered by the counrt. A motion for a new trial was made by Mattox; but the motion was overruled, and the only question presented for the determination of this court, involves the propriety of the decision overruling the motion for a new trial. It is perfectly clear, that no evidence was introduced on the trial, from which the jury could rationally infer that a good and sufficient title to the land was made to Mattox. A deed from Isham Faris to Mattox for the land, was read in evidence; and as the condition of Oldham's obligation allowed the title to be made, either by Isham Faris or himself, the jury would no doubt have been justified in finding the issues against Mattox, if there had been sufficient evidence introduced to show that Faris was possessed of the title when the deed was executed by him. But the record exhibits no sufficient evidence of Faris ever having been invested with the title. It is true, the deed which Faris made, was proved to have been accepted by Mattox; but the acceptance by Mattox of the deed, is not calculated to prove that Faris was possessed of the title, and on the trial of an issue involving the question of title, it could not, in the absence of all other circumstances, authorize the jury to infer that Faris held the title. *2 The court should, therefore, have awarded a new trial on the ground assumed in the motion of the verdict being against evidence. Judgment reversed, and cause remanded for a new trial. Ky.App. 1824. Mattox v. Oldham 5 Litt. 30, 15 Ky. 30, 1824 WL 1363 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
