(Cite as: 4 Bibb 19,  7 Ky. 19 (Ky.),  1815 WL 636 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Heydle v. Hazlehurst. Apr. 14, 1815. *1 Where the creditor obtains judgment at law, and then comes into a Court of Equity to foreclose a mortgage given to secure the same debt, the chancellor ought not to decree interest, the judgment at law not bearing interest, but should take that judgment as the amount to be paid. West Headnotes Mortgages 266 k 122 266 Mortgages 266III Construction and Operation 266III(B) Parties and Debts or Liabilities Secured 266k122 k. Interest. Most Cited Cases A. gave B. a mortgage as security for a debt, for which a suit was then pending.  A. failed to pay the judgment recovered in said suit.  B. filed a bill for foreclosure of said mortgage, and obtained a decree for the amount of the judgment and interest.  Held, that interest on the judgment should not have been decreed. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. HEYDLE, to secure to Hazlehurst the payment of a debt, for the recovery of which a suit was depending at law. executed a mortgage on a tract of land. Judgment having been obtained in the action at law, and Heydle failing to pay the same according to the condition of the mortgage, Hazlehurst brought his suit in equity to foreclose Heydle's equity of redemption, and subject the land to the payment of the debt. Heydle failing to answer the bill, it was taken for confessed, and a decree pronounced in favor of Hazlehurst for the amount of the judgment at law, together with the interest thereon until it should be paid; and the land mentioned in the mortgage made subject to that demand. This decree we are of opinion cannot be sustained. It was manifestly erroneous to decree the defendant in the Court below to pay a greater sum than the amount of the judgment at law. It is plain from the phraseology of the mortgage, that a discharge of the judgment would have operated as a satisfaction of the mortgage; and as that judgment, according to its legal operation, cannot bear interest, Heydle should not have been made liable to interest in a Court of Equity; but as equity took cognizance of the case for the purpose of subjecting the mortgaged property to the payment of the judgment, the legal operation of that judgment should regulate the extent of Heydle's liability. The decree must therefore be reversed, and the cause remanded for new proceedings. Ky.App. 1815. Heydle v. Hazlehurst 4 Bibb 19, 7 Ky. 19, 1815 WL 636 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
