(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 291,  8 Ky. 291 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1365 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Morrow v. Dolly Hart, Adm'x. Oct. 7, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BULLITT CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 136 161 Execution 161V Levy 161k136 k. Successive Levies Under Same Writ. Most Cited Cases After a sufficient levy on a debtor's property, he is liable to no further levy, so long as the property is detained from him. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of trespass, brought by Morrow to recover damages for a trespass committed by Hart, in entering upon a field of growing corn, and converting and disposing of the same to his use, &c. Hart, by his plea, admits the taking, but alleges it to have been done by him as constable, under a fieri facias, which had been issued from a justice of the peace, upon a judgment against Morrow, and justifies the sale and conversion of the corn, in satisfaction of the execution. To this plea, Morrow replies, that before the levy on, and sale of, the corn, Hart had taken under the execution a cupboard of value sufficient to satisfy the demand, and, after having advertised the time and place of the sale of the cupboard, and failing to sell for the want of bidders, seized and sold the corn, &c. Hart then rejoined, that after the cupboard was taken by him, Morrow fraudulently took it into his possession, locked it in his house, and refused to restore it; and, in order to satisfy the execution, whilst it was in full force, he levied it upon the corn. Morrow, in answer to the rejoinder, by surrejoinder, admits the locking the cupboard in his house, but alleges it to have been in consequence of Hart's refusing and failing to remove it; and concludes, by alleging the corn to have been thereafter, whilst he was absent, taken and sold by Hart. To this surrejoinder Hart demurred, and the demurrer being joined, judgment was rendered by the court in bar of Morrow's action. From these pleadings, although Hart is admitted to have taken the cupboard in execution, before he made the levy upon the corn, it is obvious, that the cupboard, when the corn was taken, was possessed by Morrow, so that he could have been in no possible danger of being twice subjected to the payment of the execution. For no purpose of justice, therefore, can Hart be made responsible, and if the action can be sustained against him, it must be upon some technical principle of the common law. We are aware that the doctrine is laid down in general terms, discharging the defendant, not only from the execution, but from all further liability to the judgment, where the sheriff has taken goods to the amount of the debt. But in looking into those authorities, we are satisfied they should be understood with a limitation, and that the mere taking of property by the officer ought not, and in legal contemplation does not, either operate as a satisfaction of the judgment or execution. After a sufficient levy on a debtor's property, he is liable to no further distress, so long as the property is detained from him. *2 Whilst the property taken in execution is detained by the officer, there is no doubt, but as was held in the case of Martney against Andrews, Cro. Eliz. 237, but that even a scire facias to have execution, can not be maintained. But if the property is not detained, but restored to the defendant, as was held by this court in the case of M'Ginnis against Lillard's executor, the plaintiff is still entitled to have execution of his judgment. But the property being restored, the debtor is liable to a new distress. And hence, although by the pleadings, the cupboard is not expressly alleged to have been restored to Morrow, yet as by taking it in his house, he appears to have been secured in his possession, we apprehend he should not occupy more favorable ground, than if the cupboard had been actually restored to him by the officer, and that, consequently, for a subsequent taking of his property by the same execution, he ought not to be permitted to sustain an action. The judgment of the court against him, therefore, must be affirmed with cost. B. Hardin for appellant, Wickliffe for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Morrow v. Hart 1 A.K.Marsh. 291, 8 Ky. 291, 1818 WL 1365 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
