(Cite as: 4 Bibb 73,  7 Ky. 73 (Ky.),  1815 WL 665 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Tarlton v. Briscoe. May 29, 1815. *1 In transitory actions, it is not necessary in this State to lay the venue within the circuit either to give jurisdiction to the Court, or to show whence the jury is to be summoned. In detinue in the Scott Circuit Court, the declaration stated the cause of action in Fayette circuit; this not fatal after verdict. Motion to add the plea of the statute of limitations is addressed to the discretion of the Court; and the applicant should show it was necessary to the justice of the case. A gift of a slave in Maryland, must be governed by the laws of that State then in force; and the laws of that State are not to be judicially noticed by the judges of this State, but are matters of fact to be proved. An instruction by the Court to the jury, relative to a gift in Maryland, founded upon our own laws applied to the case, or upon a presumption that the laws of Maryland and our own laws were alike, is not proper. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 433(3) 302 Pleading 302XIX Aider by Verdict or Judgment 302k433 Defects in or Want of Declaration, Complaint, Petition, or Statement 302k433(3) k. Nature of Defects or Objections in General.  Most Cited Cases Where, in detinue in the circuit court for Scott county, the declaration stated the cause of action in Fayette county, it is not fatal after verdict. Evidence 157 k 35 157 Evidence 157I Judicial Notice 157k35 k. Laws of Other States. Most Cited Cases The courts will not take judicial notice of the laws of the other states, but they must be proved in the same manner as other facts. Gifts 191 k 2 191 Gifts 191I Inter Vivos 191k2 k. What Law Governs. Most Cited Cases A gift must be governed by the laws of the state in which it is made that were in force at the time the gift was made. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was an action of detinue, brought by Briscoe in Court below to recover a negro girl from the possession of Tarlton. The trial was had in that Court on the general issue, and verdict and judgment obtained by Briscoe; from which judgment Tarlton has appealed to this Court. The action was brought in the Scott Circuit Court, and the venue is laid in the declaration to be within the circuit of Fayette; and it is assigned for error, that the declaration is in that respect insufficient. This objection cannot be sustained. Were this a local action, then as the suit should be brought in the county where the cause of the action arose, the allegation in the declaration stating the venue in a different county to that where the action was commenced, would be fatal; but with respect to transitory action, there can exist no necessity for the venue to be laid in the county where the suit is brought. It cannot be necessary for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to the Court, because in such cases the jurisdiction is not confined to the circuit where the cause of action accrued. It cannot be necessary for the purpose of showing from whence the venue is to come; for according to our law the jury is to be summoned from the bystanders. It cannot, in fine, be a material allegation, because it is not traversable; and under our statute of jeofails, if it were otherwise, in a different state of pleading, essential, the irregularity is cured by verdict. *2 It is also assigned for error, that the Court below erred in refusing to permit the appellant to file a plea of the statute of limitation. That plea was offered at a subsequent term to the filing of the plea of non detinet, and should not have been then received, unless it was sufficiently manifested to the Court that the purposes of justice required its admission. We are, however, of opinion such a case was not made out by the appellant. It is true his application was founded upon an affidavit then filed, but that affidavit more properly furnishes a reason for filing a plea of the statute of limitations of the State of Maryland, than that of this country; and beside, it is apparent from the averments in the plea itself, that the statute of limitations of this State could not bar the action: for it is alleged that neither the appellee, the plaintiff in the Court below, nor those under whom he derives his claim, were within the limits of this country for five years before the commencement of this suit. Under these circumstances, therefore, we have no doubt but the Court below properly exercised their discretion in refusing to permit the plea to be filed. Having disposed of these preliminary objections, we shall proceed to notice those points which relate more immediately to the merits of the contest, and which are deemed necessary to a decision by this Court. Both the parties to this contest appear to claim the negro through Dorcas Briscoe: the appellant by purchase from Ralph Briscoe, who claimed the negro as heir at law to his daughter Dorcas Briscoe; and the appellee as heir at law to his daughter, Dorcas Tarlton, who, he contends, was entitled to the negro by a gift from Dorcas Briscoe. And upon the trial in the Court below, after proof was produced by the appellee to establish the gift by Dorcas Briscoe to his daughter, Dorcas Tarlton, the appellant moved for and obtained the instructions of that Court to the jury, that if they were of opinion from the evidence, that Dorcas Briscoe, when she made the gift to Dorcas Tarlton, was an infant under the age of 21 years, that the gift was voidable at her instance or that of her representatives. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the Court in giving these instructions, and we are now called on to decide upon the correctness of that opinion. It is apparent from the evidence made part of the record, that the gift, if any were made by Dorcas Briscoe to Dorcas Tarlton, took place in the State of Maryland. where all the parties at that time resided. According, therefore, to settled principles, the rights of the parties to that gift must be determined by the laws of Maryland in force when the gift was made. What those laws then were, and whether according to their provisions persons under the age of 21, may avoid their gifts, were inquiries necessarily involved in the trial before the jury, and which must have been decided by that Court in their instructions. Those instructions, we are of opinion, cannot be maintained. *3 What are the laws of Maryland this Court cannot judicially know. They are matters of fact, triable as other facts, and necessary to be ascertained by the jury upon the proof before them. It is true by the laws of this country, applied to cases governed by them, infants may avoid their contracts; but it does not from thence follow as a conclusion of law, that the laws of other States are in this respect the same. Could the existence of a foreign law be presumed from that of our own (which we do not however admit), it would be but a presumption of the existence of a fact, liable to be repelled by other evidence. The character of a foreign law would still be the same; it would be nevertheless a fact to be determined by a jury, upon all the evidence relating thereto; and even then, under the circumstances of this case, the Court erred in withdrawing from the jury a decision of what the laws of Maryland were. It is true were the laws of Maryland proven, then as matter of law the rights of the parties should be controlled by them; but the Court below could not regularly, by assuming what the laws of that State were, instruct the jury upon the effect of the gift. The judgment of that Court must consequently be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for a new trial to be had upon the issue joined. Ky.App. 1815. Tarlton v. Briscoe 4 Bibb 73, 7 Ky. 73, 1815 WL 665 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
