(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 396,  21 Ky. 396 (Ky.),  1827 WL 2560 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wiley v. Campbell. Oct. 3, 1827. *1 Actionable Words of Slander. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Libel and Slander 237 k 7(1) 237 Libel and Slander 237I Words and Acts Actionable, and Liability Therefor 237k7 Words Imputing Crime and Immorality 237k7(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases "You have been cropped for felony" are actionable words. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. To an action for slanderous words brought by Wiley, the general issue was pleaded, and after the evidence on the part of Wiley was through, the court being of opinion, the words proved to have been spoken by Campbell, were not actionable, instructed the jury to find as in case of a non-suit. Instructions for non suit. The words proved are substantially the same as those laid in the declaration, and are as follows: "you have been cropped for felony." The question made by the assignment of errors, is, was the court correct in deciding those words not to be actionable? "You have been cropped for felony" are actionable words. We are incapable of perceiving any thing, either in the import of the words, or in the manner in which they were expressed, that can render them not actionable. They clearly import a charge of felony against the plaintiff, and though it does not appear in what the felony consisted, the words must, according to adjudged cases, be held actionable. It is not necessary the species of felony be stated, the general charge is actionable. Thus in the case of Morgan v. Williams, 1 Strange, 142, the words were, "Thou art a thief--of what? of every thing," and by the court adjudged actionable. So the words, "I charge thee with felony," have also been held actionable. 1 Com. Dig. 263, E. 1; 1 Rol 72. The words, it is true, do not only contain a charge of felony, but they moreover show that for that felony, the plaintiff has been cropped. But the suggestion that the plaintiff was cropped, can not do away the actionability of the words. In Bevin v. Hodes, 2 Wils. R. 300, the words "he was put into the round house for stealing ducks at Crowland," were held actionable. So in 1 Com. Dig. 250, D. 1, the words, "thou wert burnt in the hand for coining," are said to be actionable. And it is said, by the same author, 263, E. 1, that the words, "he was whipped for stealing," are actionable. Examples of slanderous actionable words. The court must therefore, have erred in the instructions to the jury; and consequently the judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Goodloe and Breck, for plaintiff; Turner, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Wiley v. Campbell 5 T.B.Mon. 396, 21 Ky. 396, 1827 WL 2560 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
