(Cite as: 4 Bibb 298,  7 Ky. 298 (Ky.),  1816 WL 730 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hennings v. Conner and wife. Apr. 3, 1816. *1 An amended answer filed questioning the right of a party as heir, when that right had been previously adjudicated and recognized in the appellate Court in the same cause, cannot be regarded. A release given by a party after the first decision of a cause, and a review of it in the Court above, may be pleaded by an amended answer, and taken advantage of, on a subsequent hearing in the Court below. West Headnotes Release 331 k 47 331 Release 331III Proceedings to Establish Release 331k44 Pleading Release as Defense 331k47 k. Release after action brought. Most Cited  Cases A release, given by a party after the first decision of the case and a review of it in the court above, may be set up by an amended answer, and taken advantage of on a subsequent hearing in the court below. Appeal and Error 30 k 1201(6) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVII Determination and Disposition of Cause 30XVII(F) Mandate and Proceedings in Lower Court 30k1196 Powers and Duties of Lower Court 30k1201 Amendments as to Pleadings and  Parties 30k1201(6) k. Matters which may be presented by new  or amended pleadings. Most Cited Cases An amendment to an answer disputing a right which had been previously adjudicated in the same cause in the appellate court ought not to be allowed in the court below. Equity 150 k 281 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(F) Amended and Supplemental Pleadings and Revivor 150k278 Amendment of Plea or Answer 150k281 k. Condition of cause. Most Cited  Cases An amendment to an answer, disputing a right which has been previously adjudicated, in the same cause in the appellate court ought not to be allowed in the court below;  but a release by one of the parties, after the first decision, may be pleaded in the court below by an amendment to the answer. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS was a suit in chancery, brought in the Court below by the present plaintiffs, to recover the estate of their ancestor Stephen Henning, deceased, and which was claimed by them as heirs at law. When the cause came to hearing in the Court below, a decree unsatisfactory to the plaintiffs was there pronounced, and the cause having been brought before this Court by an appeal, that decree was reversed, the cause remanded with directions to ascertain according to principles then recognized, the amount to which the plaintiffs were conceived to be entitled, for the purpose of enabling that Court to give a final decree. Upon the return of the cause to the Court below, the defendants presented an amendment to their answer previously made, in which they charge Ezekiel Henning not to be one of the heirs of Stephen Henning, deceased, but allege David to be the sole heir, and from whom they charge they have for a valuable consideration obtained a release of all his right to the estate, and exhibit the release to the Court. The filing of the amendment was opposed by the plaintiffs, but admitted by the Court, and without the production of any evidence but the release, other than that which was used on the former hearing, that Court dismissed the plaintiff's bill with costs; and to reverse that decree the cause is again brought before this Court by writ of error. *2 In determining on the propriety of receiving the amended answer, the subject seems to divide itself into two inquiries--1. With respect to the denial of Ezekiel Henning's right; and 2. As to the release given by David. The right of Ezekiel to part of the estate, formed a material and essential inquiry when the cause was formerly before this Court; and as the opinion then given clearly recognized his right, it is conceived his interest ought not in any manner to be affected by an amendment to the answer suggesting facts existing before the former hearing, and the truth of which was necessarily involved in the decision then given; and when, too, from the circumstances of this case, those facts must have been known to the defendants prior to the cause being first heard. So much of the answer, therefore, as relates to Ezekiel's right, should have been disregarded by the Court below; but as the release was obtained from David after the former decision was given, the dictates of natural justice require the defendants should be permitted by some mode of defense to avail themselves of it, and none other more eligible is perceived than that which has been adopted in the present case. The release, as it cannot, however, affect the right of Ezekiel, could justify a dismissal of the bill as to David only; but as by the decree of the Court below the bill was dismissed as to both the plaintiffs, it must be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to that Court and the bill as to David dismissed; and as to Ezekiel, such proceedings there had consistent with the former opinion of this Court, as may enable that Court to make a final decree as to him. Ky.App. 1816. Hennings v. Connor 4 Bibb 298, 7 Ky. 298, 1816 WL 730 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
