(Cite as: 4 Bibb 107,  7 Ky. 107 (Ky.),  1815 WL 685 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Stephens v. Hedden. Apr. 4, 1815. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A boundary line described, in an entry of land on a creek, as beginning at a point on a branch of the creek, and running parallel with the creek the same distance therefrom, should be run, not on a direct line parallel to the general course, but parallel to the different windings. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases Where an entry of land on a creek described it as "beginning up a branch emptying into said creek, about four miles from the mouth, on the upper side, running parallel with the creek the same distance therefrom, eight miles," etc., the line should be extended up, and not down, the creek from the beginning, though the entry contained no express direction as to whether the line should be extended up or down the creek;  it appearing that the different calls of the entry indicated that the locator did not intend to appropriate any land below the beginning. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases Where an entry of land is made on a creek beginning a certain distance from its mouth, such distance should be estimated on a direct line, and not with the meanders of the creek. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry was "on B. creek, beginning up a branch emptying into said creek, about four miles from the mouth, on the upper side, running parallel with the creek the same distance therefrom eight miles, then off at right angles eastwardly for quantity."  Held, that "four miles from the mouth" should be measured in a direct line, and not with the meanders of the creek;  that, there being three branches, the entry could only be supported for so much land as would be included in common, by surveys beginning at any part of each of the branches, and extended according to the other calls, the eight mile line to be run parallel with the different windings of the creek, not on a direct line with its general course, and to extend up the creek;  and that an entry, depending on the above, must be void. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases The boundary in an entry of land on a creek was described as beginning up a branch emptying into the creek about four miles from the mouth, on the upper side. Held, that where there were three branches of the creek equally answering the description, the entry was sustainable only for so much land as would be included in common by surveys beginning at any part of each of the branches and extended according to the other calls of the entry. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. Judge LOGAN absent. *1 THIS is a contest for land, under adverse conflicting claims. The appellee, who was complainant in the Court below, claims under the junior patent, and must consequently rely upon his superior equity, derived from the entry under which he claims. That entry is as follows: "Benjamin Roberts and James Parris enter 20,000 acres upon part of four treasury warrants, No., etc., beginning at the lower corner of the back line of Patten & Co's last entry, to run along their back side and eastwardly for quantity." As this entry is made to depend on that of Patten & Co., it becomes necessary to examine its validity. It is in the following words: "January 9th, 1783--James Patten, Benjamin Pope and Mark Thomas, assignees of Benjamin Roberts, enter 30,000 acres upon part of six treasury warrants, No. etc., on the waters of Brashears' creek, beginning up a branch emptying into said creek, about four miles from the mouth, on the upper side, running parallel with the creek the same distance therefrom eight miles, then off at right angles eastwardly for quantity." Entry. The mouth of Brashears' creek at the date of the preceding entries is admitted to be a place of general notoriety. A subsequent locator, with the entry of Patten, etc., in his hand, and wishing to appropriate the vacant residuum, could therefore have no difficulty in finding the mouth of Brashears' creek, and when found he would be necessarily led to examine for the branch up which Patten & Co's entry begins. In making this examination, according to the uniform course of decisions, the distance mentioned for the mouth of the branch should be estimated on a direct line, and not with the meanders of the creek.--(Vol. 3, Smith v. Walton, 153-- Carland v. Rowland, 127.) Distance up a creek is to be taken on a direct line, not by the meanders. In pursuing this rule of admeasurement, the subsequent locator, in making his examination for the beginning, could not be misled, or in any respect embarrassed by the first two branches emptying into the creek above the mouth on the upper side, those branches emptying into the creek not more than about one mile and a half from its mouth; but in pursuing his examination for the branch, the locator, before he would arrive at the distance from the mouth of the creek called for in the entry, would find three branches, each of which empty into the creek on the upper side, and the mouth of each branch would be found within a few poles of the distance of four miles from the mouth of the creek. And when these branches are found, it is impossible the subsequent locator, by any description contained in the entry, could apply it to the one in preference to the other: they all equally fit the calls of the entry; they all empty into the creek on the upper side, and about four miles from its mouth; he could not, therefore, possibly know up which of these branches Patten & Co.'s entry called to begin. A branch described as being four miles up the creek imposes reasonable diligence of inquiry. *2 Three branches equally answering the description, the entry is only sustainable for so much land as will be common to surveys made by taking each branch as alluded to. But from the aptitude of each of the branches to the calls of the entry, it is obvious the locator of the entry intended it should begin up one of them. But where on the branch the entry should begin, whether at the head or the mouth, or elsewhere, the entry is altogether silent. As, therefore, the calls of the entry would be satisfied as well by beginning on one part of each of these branches as the other, it can only be supported, if at all, for so much land as will be included in common by surveys beginning at any part of each of the branches, and extended according to the other calls of the entry. For so much as will not thus be included in common, the entry is uncertain and cannot be sustained.--(Marshall v. Rough's heirs, vol. 2, 631-2). In making the survey, we are of opinion the line from the beginning should be extended eight miles, when run parallel with the different windings of the creek, and not on a direct line with the general course of the creek. Whatever disposition this Court may hitherto have manifested, or do still entertain, to construe entries so as to give them reasonable shape, such a construction should never be given in violation of the clear import of the words of an entry. In the present case, the locator in making his entry, as though he apprehended his meaning might not be definitely understood, has not been content by directing the line from the beginning to be extended parallel with the creek, but to manifest his intention more clearly, expressly directs the line to be run the same distance from the creek. "Parallel to the creek the same distance therefrom," means not on a direct line parallel to the general course, but parallel to the different windings. After this exposition of the entry, it is evident that without a gross violation of the locator's meaning, the base line of the survey cannot be extended eight miles on a direct line from the beginning. "Beginning up a branch emptying in about four miles from the mouth of Brashears' creek," etc., the land below the mouth of the branch is not intended to be appropriated. We are, however, of opinion the line should be extended up, and not down the creek from the beginning; for although the entry contains no express direction whether it should be extended up or down the creek, yet we think the different calls of the entry evidently indicate that the locator did not intend to appropriate any land below the beginning. We have thought it unnecessary to determine how the other calls in Patten & Co.'s entry should be surveyed, for whatever might be the construction given to them, it is manifest they can in nowise affect the present case. As to the appellee's entry, it need only be remarked, that as it depends on that of Patten & Co., it must partake of all its vagueness and uncertainty; and if so, it is evident it cannot be supported for any part of the land in contest. *3 The decree of the Court below must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the Court below, and the bill of the complainant there dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Stephens v. Hedden 4 Bibb 107, 7 Ky. 107, 1815 WL 685 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
