(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 603,  8 Ky. 603 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1106 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bullit's Heirs v. Tharp. May 29, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR FROM A DECREE OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 181 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(B) Objections and Motions, and Rulings Thereon 30k181 k. Necessity of Objections in General. Most Cited  Cases Objections taken in argument to the decree, and relating to and questioning the legality of a survey made under the interlocutory decree of the court, and which were not made in the court before final decree, cannot be regarded on appeal. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a contest for land. The validity of the entries under which each party claims having been heretofore decided on, and their mode of surveying directed by this court, it is now material barely to examine whether, by the decree of the court below, the former opinion of this court has been correctly carried into effect. By that decree, the appellants are required to surrender the title to that part of the land in contest, contained within the lines and angles designated upon the plat by the letters and figures Q, R, 15, 16; whereas it is contended, that when laid down according to the former opinion of this court, Tharp's entry includes so much only of the land as is contained within the lines and angles designated by the letters and figures Q, 19, 20, 16. That the latter and not the former boundary is the one for which a decree should have been pronounced, we have no doubt. The decree of the court below is hypothecated upon the southern corner of Wallace being at the letter B on the plat, and if that were in fact the termination of Wallace's first line from his beginning, the decree would, most clearly, be correct. But according to the former opinion of this court, Wallace's line is directed to be extended 400 poles from the beginning, and as, by the surveyor's report, that distance terminates at the figure 21, and not at the letter B, those figures, and not the letter, must fix Wallace's corner. And if so, as the termination of that line regulates the northern extremity of Tharp's survey, the boundary Q, 19, 20, 16, and not that of Q, R, 15, 16, must be considered as including all the land to which Tharp, by the former opinion of this court, has manifested a superior right. An error in an interlocutory decree, and not questioned in the final decree, furnishes no cause for a reversal:--vide ante, 222, Bedford v. Duly, acc't. Vide Bibb, 490, the decree to which this opinion has relation. The other objections taken in argument to the decree, as they relate to, and question the regularity of, the survey made under the interlocutory decree of the court below, and were not made in that court before final decree, should not now be regarded by this court. The decree must, however, be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and a decree there entered conformable to this opinion. Bibb for plaintiff, Hardin for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1819. Bullit's Heirs v. Tharp 1 A.K.Marsh. 603, 8 Ky. 603, 1819 WL 1106 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
