(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 336,  21 Ky. 336 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1559 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Feemster v. Ringo. Jul. 2, 1827. *1 Statutes. Retrospective Laws. Bank Paper. Evidence. Judicial Notice. Error. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 225 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(A) Rendition, Form, and Requisites in General 228k221 Designation of Amount 228k225 k. Medium of Payment. Most Cited  Cases Act Jan. 5, 1824, provides that in any suit depending on any contract for the payment of notes of the bank of Kentucky or bank of the commonwealth, or for the payment of the current paper of the state, such debt shall not be scaled by the court before whom such suit shall be determined;  but judgment shall be given for the full amount of such debt, to be discharged by paper of the same kind, provided plaintiff makes a written statement on the declaration or warrant that he is willing to take such paper in discharge of the debt.  Held not applicable to actions on covenants made before the act was passed, in which cases judgment is recoverable for money. Constitutional Law 92 k 2667 92 Constitutional Law 92XXII Obligation of Contract 92XXII(A) In General 92k2667 k. Retroactivity in General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 361k265) The laws affecting contracts do not apply to those made before the enactment, at whatever time the action may be commenced. Covenant, Action Of 107 k 1 107 Covenant, Action Of 107k1 k. Nature and Scope of Remedy. Most Cited Cases The form of action upon an agreement to pay a certain sum in bank notes should be covenant if the agreement be sealed, in which action plaintiff can recover his real damages according to the value of the notes, which is to be ascertained by the jury. Evidence 157 k 18 157 Evidence 157I Judicial Notice 157k18 k. Weights, Measures, and Values. Most Cited Cases Judicial notice cannot be taken of the value of the notes of the Bank of the Commonwealth at any particular time. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Ringo brought an action against Feemster, and declared upon a writing, dated the 24th of April, 1823, wherein Feemster covenanted to pay Ringo, two months after date, one hundred and seventy-four dollars in commonwealth's bank notes. Declaration. Feemster having failed to appear and plead to the action, a writ of enquiry was awarded against him; and upon the execution of that writ, one hundred and ninety-eight dollars damages were assessed by the jury, and final judgment was thereupon rendered in favor of Ringo. Judgment by default. To reverse that judgment Feemster has prosecuted this writ of error with supersedeas. Error assigned. It is assigned for error, that the judgment is not for commonwealth's bank paper, but is for money. *2 The objection to the judgment is taken upon the supposition that the act of assembly, which passed session, 1824, upon the subject of contracts for bank paper, applies to the contract upon which this suit was brought by Ringo. We have, on other occasions, repeatedly decided, that before the passage of that act, the amount recoverable for a breach of contract to pay commonwealth's bank paper, could not exceed the specie value of the paper contracted to be paid, at the time it was payable, and interest, and that the jury were bound to assess damages, and the court to render judgment for money, and not bank paper. But this action was commenced by Ringo since the passage of that act, and without controverting the correctness of those decisions, it is contended on the part of Feemster, that according to the provisions of the act, the judgment ought regularly to have been entered for the paper of the bank, and not for money. We admit that, in actions founded upon contracts coming within the provisions of the act, it would be irregular to render judgment for any thing else but the paper of the bank, in favor of a plaintiff, who, by endorsing upon his declaration as required by the act, has elected to proceed for bank paper, and not for its value in money. But we are not prepared to admit that the contract upon which the action of Ringo was brought, comes within the provisions of the act. The contract was not only made before the act passed, but by his failure to pay according to his undertaking, Feemster, before that time, had become liable to pay, and Ringo entitled to sue for and recover, the value of the paper in money. Act of 1824, authorizing the plaintiff in an action of covenant for bank paper, to recover the paper in kind, does not apply to contracts made before the enactment, at whatever time the action may be commenced. Were we, therefore, to admit the contract to come within the provisions of the act, we should convict the law makers of having, by retrospective legislation, and in violation of existing rights, converted the obligation which Feemster was under to pay money, into an obligation at all times to come to pay bank paper. A result so unjust, and so repugnant to the spirit and genius of our government, can not be presumed to have been intended by the legislature. Without giving to the act a construction to produce such a result, it may have a practical and effective operation. It may justly control the contracts of parties made after its passage, and it is to that class of contracts its operation must be confined. Objections to retrospective laws. The contract being one which does not come within the influence of the act of 1824, therefore, it was correct in the court below, to render judgment for money and not bank paper. With respect to the amount for which judgment was rendered, we would remark, that no question is made by the assignment of errors. If, however, any question of the sort had been made, we should not, from any thing contained in the record, be able to afford relief to Feemster. In assessing damages the jury should have been governed by the value of the paper of the bank, when, by the contract, it became payable; and interest, and from the amount of damages assessed, it is possible the jury may not have been guided by that rule. But we are not at liberty to take judicial notice of the value of the paper of the bank at any particular time, and could not therefore disturb the finding of the jury on the ground of their not having been governed by the value of the paper, if the question had been made by the assignment of errors, because the record contains nothing to show what the value of the paper was at the time the writing sued on became payable. *3 This court can not take judicial notice of the value of notes on the bank of the commonwealth, at any particular time (here in June, 1823). The judgment must be affirmed, with cost and damages. Triplett, for plaintiff; Jas. Trimble, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Feemster v. Ringo 5 T.B.Mon. 336, 21 Ky. 336, 1827 WL 1559 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
