(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 42,  9 Ky. 42 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1147 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Higden v. Leonard P. Higden. Oct. 18, 1819. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 90 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(G) Surprise, Accident, Inadvertence, or Mistake 275k90 k. Testimony and Conduct of Witness. Most Cited  Cases Where a party called his adversary's witness, thus making him his own, he cannot allege surprise at his evidence as a ground for a new trial. New Trial 275 k 101 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(H) Newly Discovered Evidence 275k101 k. Time of Discovery. Most Cited  Cases A new trial will not be granted, on the ground of newly discovered evidence, where the evidence claimed to have been newly discovered was known to the party before or at the time of the trial. Appeal and Error 30 k 1003 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(I) Questions of Fact, Verdicts, and Findings 30XVI(I)2 Verdicts 30k1003 k. Against Weight of Evidence. Most Cited  Cases A verdict or finding by the jury will not be disturbed as against the evidence because of a mere preponderance of evidence against it, but will be set aside only when it is palpably against the weight of evidence, or clearly shows that the jury were mistaken, or were influenced by passion, prejudice, or corruption. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent, Judge Rowan. This writ of error is brought by Wm. Higden to reverse a judgment recovered against him by Leonard Higden, in an action of assumpsit brought by Leonard in the court below. The trial was had on the general issue, and the questions made in this court involve the correctness of the decision of that court in refusing a new trial. When testimony is introduced by both parties, though the weight thereof may be against the verdict, yet it will not be disturbed for that cause alone. 1 Mar., 26, Ib., 59, Ib., 551. The new trial was asked for by William Higden on the grounds, 1. Of the verdict being against evidence. 2. Surprise by the evidence of Thomas Higden. 3. The discovery of new evidence. With respect to the first ground, we are of opinion the record exhibits no sufficient cause for the interference of the court in granting a new trial. As evidence in relation to the point in issue, was introduced by both parties, the verdict can not be said to be against evidence; and although there may, in our estimation, be a slight preponderance of evidence against the verdict to award a new trial on that ground, would certainly be invading the right of the jury, whose peculiar and constitutional province it is to weigh and decide upon the credibility of evidence. Nor do we suppose a new trial should have been awarded on the ground of surprise. The surprise complained of by William Higden, relates to the evidence of Thomas Higden, who seems to have been introduced by himself for the purpose of proving that R. Higden, whose disposition had been taken by him de bene esse, was unable to attend court; but as he states, in his affidavit, he was surprised to hear Thomas swear that R. Higden was able to attend court. *2 A party calling his adversary's witness, makes him his own, and can not allege surprise at his evidence, and no new trial will be ordered for that cause. If new evidence is discovered before the verdict is rendered, it should be submitted to the jury; and if that is neglected, a new trial will not be granted for that cause. The ability of R. Higden to attend as a witness, was the very pivot upon which the admission of his deposition turned; and as it was taken by Wm. Higden, he ought to have been prepared to prove the fact. But if, instead, of summoning a witness to establish the deponent's inability to attend, as he states in his affidavit, he called upon Thomas Higden, who had been summoned by his adversary he thereby, for the purpose, made the witness his own, and we apprehend can not be said to have been so surprised as to authorize the interference of the court in awarding a new trial. And with respect to the discovery of new evidence alleged by William Higden, it need only be remarked, that from his own affidavit, he appears to have known of the evidence, alleged to have been discovered, before the verdict was returned by the jury, and as such should have introduced it before the jury. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Hardin, for plaintiff in error. Ky.App. 1819. Higden v. Higden 2 A.K.Marsh. 42, 9 Ky. 42, 1819 WL 1147 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
