(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 305,  10 Ky. 305 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1071 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Archibald Allen v. James Pryor et al. Apr. 12, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 17 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185III Promises to Answer for Debt, Default or Miscarriage of Another 185k17 k. Promise to Answer in General. Most Cited Cases Where in payment for goods sold, the buyer delivered his own note payable to defendant, and indorsed by him, defendant cannot avoid payment on the ground of the statute, as his promise to pay the buyer's debt was one raised by implication of law, to which the statute does not apply. Assignments 38 k 97 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k95 Rights of Assignee as Against Assignor 38k97 k. Express or Implied Warranty by Assignor. Most Cited  Cases The assignment of an obligation, made in consideration of actual benefit received by the assignor, or advantage foregone by the assignee, implies a promise by the assignor to pay the amount of the obligation, if, after the exercise of due and proper diligence, the amount cannot be collected from the obligor. Bills and Notes 56 k 226 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(A) Before Delivery to or Transfer by Payee 56k226 k. Consideration. Most Cited Cases Where the vendee of goods agreed to give a note for the amount, with an approved indorser, and accordingly made a note, payable in 60 days, which a third person indorsed, the consideration was sufficient to support the indorsement. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This suit was brought by Gilly and Pryor to recover from Allen, upon an assignment to them of a note, executed by Gill and Bainbridge, and made payable to Allen. The only question worthy of consideration, involves an enquiry into the sufficiency of the consideration of the assignment to charge Allen, the assignor. It appears that Pryor and Gilly sold to Gill and Bainbridge, goods, to the amount of the assigned note, and to secure the payment, Gill and Bainbridge were to give them a note for the amount, with an approved endorser. That the assigned note was drawn by Gill and Bainbridge payable sixty days after date, and presented to Allen for his assignment, at the same time informing him that Pryor and Gilly would receive it with his endorsement. That Allen accordingly endorsed it, and it being presented to Gilly and Pryor was accepted by them in payment of the goods. If, from this evidence, the law implies a liability in Allen upon his assignment, the judgment of the court below must be affirmed; if not, it must be reversed. We think there exists a sufficient consideration to create a liability on Allen's assignment. It is perfectly clear from the evidence, that, if the note with Allen's assignment had not been accepted by Pryor and Gilly, they might have immediately sustained an action against Gill and Bainbridge for the amount of the goods sold; but by the acceptance of the note with the assignment, their right of action was suspended, until the note became payable. And it is, moreover, obvious, that, without the endorsement of Allen, the note would not have been accepted by Pryor and Gilly; so that, by Allen's assignment, Pryor and Gilly were prejudiced by a delay of their right to sue until the note became payable--Such a prejudice, according to the principles of the common law, would, no doubt, form a sufficient consideration to pay the note, if it were not paid by the makers thereof; for it is well settled not to be necessary that the consideration of a promise should import a benefit again to the promiser; but it is sufficient that the person to whom the promise is made, foregoes some advantage or benefit, which he otherwise might have taken or had, or suffers some loss, in consequence of placing his confidence in another's undertaking. Powel on Contracts, 344. *2 A delay to sue is a sufficient consideration to subject an assignor; foregoing an advantage on the part of the obligee, as well as conferring an advantage on the obligor, forms a valid consideration for a promise. If, therefore, at common law, an express promise made on such a consideration, would be availing, no reason is perceived, why the law should not imply a promise from an assignment made on such a consideration. It is well settled, that an assignment of an obligation, made in consideration of actual benefit received by the assignor, implies a promise by the assignor to pay the amount of the obligation, if, after the exercise of due and proper diligence, the amount can not be collected from the maker; and the same reason requires, that an assignment, made in consideration of a prejudice or loss to the assignee, should impose on the assignor the same liability. Wherever one person sustains a prejudice by the act of another, it is intrinsically just that the person causing the injury should make compensation for the loss; and to suppose that an assignment, made on such a consideration, imposes a liability on the assignor, is supposing the law to imply no greater a duty than the assignor is under a moral obligation to perform. An assignor who receives a benefit for the assignment, is clearly liable if the maker, after due diligence, is found unable to pay, and no reason occurs why the liability should not exist, if the assignee sustains a loss or disadvantage. But, if the consideration be sufficient to create an implied undertaking by Allen, it is urged, that the promise of Allen is not in writing, and as it is not a promise to pay his own debt, but the debt of Gill and Bainbridge; under the statute against frauds and perjuries, Gilly and Pryor ought not to succeed in the present contest. Assuming, however, the premises to be true, the conclusion will not thence necessarily follow. The liability of Allen does not arise from any express promise of his, but it results from a promise which the law implies from the fact of his having assigned the note on a sufficient consideration, and the statute of frauds never has, and we suppose never ought to be construed to apply to such a promise. To admit such a promise to come within the provisions of that statute, would not only do violence to what we suppose its face imports, but would be adopting a construction in direct hostility to every adjudication which has occurred in actions on the assignment of writings. The statute of fraud does not apply to promises raised by implication of law. A majority of the court are, therefore, of opinion, Judge Mills dissenting, that the judgment must be affirmed with costs. Littell for plaintiff, B. Hardin for defendant. On rendering this opinion, the honorable Judge Mills, dissenting therefrom, delivered to the Reporter his dissent, as follows: I dissent from the majority of the court in the decision of this case, for the following reasons: *3 1. Because it shakes the authority of the case of  Smallwood v. Woods, 1 Bibb, 542. It is there held, and that for substantial reasons, that the action of assumpsit, to recover on the assignment of a note in favor of the assignee against the assignor, can be supported on the sole principle which authorizes the recovery of money paid for a consideration which happens to fail. Such is also expressed to be the opinion of at least one judge, in Call's reports, the case of Makee's executors v. Davis. If that be the only principle on which the action can be supported, it follows that no other consideration, consisting in loss and injury to the opposite party, can sustain the action, and that where no valuable consideration is paid, none can be recovered on an assignment. This dissentient is unwilling to furnish, as he believes, the first precedent of a recovery on other grounds, as he conceives this to be the first. 2. The principles are well settled by the adjudications on the statute of frauds and perjuries, especially that clause which relates to collateral promises: That to bind one for the debt of another, it is necessary that the undertaking should be made at the moment that the original debt was contracted, and not afterwards; and that the promise of the party, who undertook collaterally, must be sole, and not joint, with the party, in whose aid he came. If the person for whom he engaged is bound at all, the collateral promissor can not be bound. 2 Ld. Raym. 1085, 6 Mod. 248, Rob. on Frauds, 207, and cases cited in the succeeding pages. If these principles be correct, Allen, the plaintiff in error, cannot be bound at all. For the assignment on which the action was founded was made long after, and not at the time Gill and Bainbridge contracted. It was made jointly with them, and they were in fact bound, and Gilly and Pryor had remedy against them. It was their debt. They were bound, and according to settled adjudications, he could not be bound also, at the same moment, without an express promise in writing. Without the letter and spirit of the act, and without the adjudications, this case cannot be brought, by supposing that the liability of Allen is founded on an implied, and not an express promise. If he had made an express promise, it is admitted it would not bind him. A fortiori, an implied promise could not bind. What promise he communicated, by inference from his acts, could not be more potent than plain speaking, and express promises. The law implies a promise from acts for the want of better proof of express engagement. Ought the better evidence to be made unavailing by the statute, and not the weaker also? Was it the design of the legislature to destroy the major, and leave the minor in full force? If it is not on the ground of contract that Allen is made liable, assumpsit is not the proper action, but an action of tort. If assumpsit must be the action, it is totally destroyed by the statute in a case where the contract comes within the letter and spirit. If Allen is made liable, this dissentient conceives, that it is by charging him with the debt of Gill and Bainbridge, for which he undertook collaterally, and at a subsequent time, while they yet remained bound. And he respectfully suggests, that he does not conceive that any decisions on the assignment of notes will be affected by these principles, as he has been unable to find a case where a defendant has been made liable, who had not received an actual consideration paid, or where injury or loss to the opposite party was held to be the ground of his responsibility. Ky.App. 1821. Allen v. Pryor 3 A.K.Marsh. 305, 10 Ky. 305, 1821 WL 1071 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
