(Cite as: 4 Litt. 283,  14 Ky. 283 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1282 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lawlin's Heirs, &c. v. Clay. Nov. 27, 1823. *1 FROM THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Process 313 k 106 313 Process 313II Service 313II(C) Publication or Other Notice 313k102 Mode and Sufficiency of Publication 313k106 k. Time and Number of Publications. Most Cited  Cases Time 378 k 5 378 Time 378k5 k. Months. Most Cited Cases An order of publication against absent defendants should be published two calendar months.  A publication for eight weeks only is insufficient. Equity 150 k 123 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k120 Subpoena 150k123 k. Service. Most Cited Cases An order of publication against a nonresident defendant must be published two calendar months prior to the hearing on its merits of a bill in equity. TURNER for appellant; no attorney for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. This is an appeal from a decree of the court below, ordering the appellants to convey the land in contest to Clay, who was the complainant in that court, asserting the superior equity to the land under an entry made in the name of Robert Lackey, in whose name the survey was made, and to whom the patent issued from the commonwealth. An order of publication against absent defendants must be published two calendar months. Clay claims the interest of Lackey in the land patented to him, under a bond which was executed by Lackey to Clay for one moiety of the land, and under a bond for the other moiety, which was given by Lackey to Robert Henry, and which bond to Henry has come to the possession of Clay, through various successive assignments. The bond was given by Lackey to Henry, prior to the passage of any law making such bonds assignable; and, in his bill, Clay has made Lackey, Henry, and the several assignors of the bond to Henry defendants. In proceeding against heirs whose names are unknown, there ought to be an affidavit that their names are unknown, filed in the clerk's office; alleging it in the bill is not sufficient. Henry appears to be a non-resident, and an order of publication against him was obtained by Clay; but the order was not published for more than eight weeks. It is obvious, therefore, that the cause was not in a proper state of preparation for hearing when the decree was pronounced in favor of Clay. It has been repeatedly held by this court, to be necessary for a complainant asserting an equity under an obligation which is not assignable at law, to make all the assignors parties; and that, instead of eight weeks, an order of publication against an absent defendant should be published two calendar months. *2 In this case, it is true, Clay alleges in his bill that he has obtained a deed of conveyance by commissioners appointed by the county court, for the entire claim of Lackey; and if, from the exhibits in the case, the legal title of Lackey could be ascertained to have passed by that deed of conveyance to Clay, it would not have been necessary for Henry or Lackey to be made parties in the present case; but the record fails to exhibit such evidence as will authorize the inference, that Clay is invested with Lackey's title; and without the title of Lackey, it was not only necessary to make Lackey, Henry, and the several assignors of Henry's bond from Lackey, parties, but the order of publication against Henry should have been published two calendar months, before the court proceeded to a final hearing of the cause on the merits. We would also remark, that the proceedings against the heirs of Isabella Douglass, who were made defendants by Clay, are not in strict compliance with the act of the legislature of this country. Those heirs are alleged in the bill of Clay, to be unknown to him; and, according to the provisions of the act, before he obtained an order of publication against them, he should have filed in the clerk's office, with his bill, an affidavit, stating the fact of his not knowing the names of the heirs. The decree must therefore, be reversed with costs, the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Lawlin's Heirs v. Clay 4 Litt. 283, 14 Ky. 283, 1823 WL 1282 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
