(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 14,  17 Ky. 14 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1466 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Smiths' Heirs v. Robinson, &c. Oct. 6, 1824. *1 Notice, Error, Restitution. APPEAL FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; WILLIAM BLAIR, JUDGE. West Headnotes Motions 267 k 23 267 Motions 267k18 Notice 267k23 k. Waiver. Most Cited Cases Want of notice of motion is cured by appearing and contesting the motion without objection. Ejectment 142 k 122 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k122 k. Restitution. Most Cited Cases Where a writ of possession has been executed, and the judgment afterwards reversed on appeal and restitution awarded to the party dispossessed, the execution of the writ restores the seisin. Ejectment 142 k 122 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k122 k. Restitution. Most Cited Cases Where a writ of possession has been executed, and the judgment is afterwards reversed on appeal, it is no bar to a writ of restitution after reversal that the defendant had, after the judgment and execution of the writ of possession, compromised his claim for improvements for a term in the premises, and agreed to restore them at the end of the lease, and was thereby in actual possession. Ejectment 142 k 122 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k122 k. Restitution. Most Cited Cases Where a writ of possession has been executed, and the judgment has been afterwards reversed, the party so dispossessed may have restitution. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. In obedience to the command of a writ of habere facias possessionem, which issued upon a judgment in ejectment recovered by the heirs of George Smith, deceased, against Robinson, &c., the sheriff delivered the possession of the land in contest, to Lane Smith, one of the heirs. After this, an agreement in writing was entered into between Weathers Smith, for himself and as agent for the other heirs of George Smith, of the one part, and the appellee, Robinson, of the other part; by which agreement, Robinson, as a compensation for the improvements upon the land recovered by the heirs of Smith, leased and accepted the possession of the land, and was to hold the possession thereof for the term of four years, and stipulated to deliver the possession of the land to the heirs, at the expiration of that term. Robinson, &c. however, not being satisfied with the decision against them in the ejectment, brought the cause before this court, and obtained a reversal of the judgment. The opinion delivered by this court was afterwards presented to the court below, and upon the motion of Robinson, &c. who were defendants in the ejectment, a writ of restitution was awarded, to restore to them the possession of the land. From the order awarding that writ, Smith, &c. the plaintiffs in the ejectment, have appealed. *2 (1.) The main question presented for decision, involves the propriety of the order awarding restitution. The assignment of errors also contests the regularity of the court below hearing and deciding the motion which was made for a writ of restiution, on the ground of no notice having been given of the intended application to the heirs of Smith. But were it admitted, that the defendants in the motion were not bound to appear and contest the application without notice, the failure to give notice ought not to vitiate the proceedings, under the circumstances displayed in the present record; for it is apparent that the defendants in the motion appeared, and without objecting to the lack of notice, contested the right of the plaintiffs to a writ of restitution; and after a decision on the merits in that court, the want of notice ought not to be allowed to be urged as an objection in this court. (1) Want of notice of the motion for a writ of restitution, can not be assigned for error to an order awarding it, where the party appeared and the decision was on the merits. (2.) The main question would involve no difficulty, if the agreement entered into between Weathers Smith and Robinson, to which we have already referred, had not been concluded. The possession of the land, which was delivered by the sheriff to Lane Smith, one of the plaintiffs in the ejectment cause, would then appear to have been delivered in virtue of a writ of habere facias possessionem, which issued upon a judgment against Robinson, &c. and that judgment since reversed by the decision of this court. Under such a state of facts, Robinson, &c. ought undoubtedly to be replaced in the possession from which they had been expelled by the erroneous judgment of the court, and to effect that object, would, upon well settled principles, be entitled to a writ of restitution. (2) Where a writ of possession has been executed, and the judgment is afterwards reversed, the party who was dispossessed, may have a writ of restitution. (3.) But, after the possession was taken under the writ, by an agreement with Smith, Robinson accepted the possession from him, at the same time stipulating to restore it at the expiration of the lease; and on the part of the heirs of Smith, that agreement and acceptance of the possession, is contended to form an insuperable objection to the order of the court awarding the writ of restitution. (3) It is no bar to a writ of restitution after reversal of judgment, that the defendant, after the judgment and execution of the writ of possession, had compromised his claim for improvements, for a term in the premises, and had agreed to restore them at the end of the lease, and was thereby in the actual possession. We, however, think differently. The only plausible argument which could be employed in support of the objection taken by the heirs, is that which might be drawn from Robinson's being in possession. It may be said, that the object of a writ of restitution is to obtain that of which a person is not possessed; and as Robinson is possessed, nothing can be effected by awarding the writ. *3 (4.) But it should be recollected, that the possession which Robinson holds under the agreement, is as tenant to the heirs of Smith, and not in his own right. He is, therefore, in of the seizin of the heirs, and by obtaining a writ of restitution, that seizin may be converted into a seizin of his own, and not of others. (4) The execution of the writ in such case, restores the seizin. The writ of restitution will, therefore, not be without effect, and of course was correctly awarded by the court below. The order must, consequently, be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1824. Smith's Heirs v. Robinson 1 T.B.Mon. 14, 17 Ky. 14, 1824 WL 1466 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
