(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 605,  8 Ky. 605 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1108 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ebenezer Scroggs v. Thomas Bodley et al. May 31, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE FLEMING CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases The call for "the head of the longest branch of J. Fork" is prima facie invalid, as imposing upon a subsequent locator the expense of measuring all the branches, where there was no notorious head. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a decree of the court below, dismissing the appellant's bill, exhibited for the purpose of compelling the appellee's to surrender their elder title derived under an adverse claim. The appellant asserts claim under the following entry: To call for the head of a stream, when nature had made no decided head, and where no one branch had notoriously acquired that appellation, is in the general not a good locative call. Vide  1 Bibb, 29, Ward, &c., v. Lee:-- Hardin 82, Taylor v. Kenkead:--printed decisions, 83, speed v. Wilson;--Hughes, 55, Smith & al. v. Bradford. "19th June, 1780--George Muter, assignee, &c. enters 2,000 acres upon two treasury warrants, &c. on the head of the longest branch of a fork of Licking called Johnson's fork, emptying into said Licking creek about 6 or 7 miles below the lower Salt Lick, to include the head of said fork, and to extend down both sides for quantity." The answer of the appellees not only contests the validity of this entry, but it denies that the survey under which the appellant's patent purports to have emanated, was, in fact, ever made. With respect to making the survey, the evidence is unquestionably of a very dubious character, and were a decision on that point necessary, we should have great hesitation in sustaining the appellant's claim; but upon the hypothesis of the survey having been made, we are decidedly of opinion, the entry of Muter can not entitle the appellant to the land in contest. That entry, as it locates the land on the head of the longest branch of Johnson's fork, is clearly, according to the repeated decisions of this court, prima facie invalid; and so far from forming an exception to the general rule, the present case is rather an illustration of the correctness of the principle upon which it is founded. For Johnson's fork is shewn to have various branches, and to require an actual admeasurement of them all would certainly be imposing upon a subsequent adventurer great trouble and expense; and from the evidence in relation to their sources, to ascertain the head of either, with certainty and precision, if not utterly impracticable, would unquestionably be extremely difficult. Under these circumstances, therefore, the court below properly dismissed the appellant's bill. The decree must consequently be affirmed with cost. Hardin for appellant, Bibb for appellee. Ky.App. 1819. Scroggs v. Bodley 1 A.K.Marsh. 605, 8 Ky. 605, 1819 WL 1108 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
