(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 212,  8 Ky. 212 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1317 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. George Bratton, v. Robert Bryan. Jun. 2, 1818. *1 APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE WARREN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 55 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(D) Disqualification or Misconduct of or Affecting Jury 275k53 Necessity of Objection at Trial 275k55 k. Failure to Object. Most Cited  Cases A new trial will not be granted because one of the jurors was not a householder, unless the objection was made before he was sworn. New Trial 275 k 140(2) 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k140 Affidavits and Extrinsic Evidence in General 275k140(2) k. Counter Affidavits. Most Cited Cases The party opposing a new trial may produce counter evidence to the affidavit of the party moving for the new trial. New Trial 275 k 153 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k153 k. Filing Motion, Notice, and Affidavits. Most Cited Cases On a motion for a new trial on account of newly discovered evidence, founded on affidavits, counter affidavits may be read without being first served on the party moving. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an appeal from a judgment rendered for damages assessed upon the execution of a writ of enquiry which was awarded on account of the failure of the appellant, who was defendant in the court below, to appear and plead to an action brought against him for speaking slanderous words. The only points presented for the consideration of this court, grow out of the refusal of that court to set aside the inquest, and award a trial of the cause. Various causes seem to have been assigned as furnishing proper grounds to set aside the inquest; but as most of them are clearly and palpably insufficient, we have not thought it material specially to notice any but those which involve an enquiry into the qualifications of the jurors, and the grounds of surprise suggested in the affidavit of the appellant. Strictly speaking, none but housekeepers are, under the laws of this country, allowed to be jurors, in any case depending in the circuit courts; and as one of those by whom the inquest in question was taken, is shown not to be a housekeeper, it is plain that he might have been excluded from serving on the jury; but as no exceptions were taken to his being sworn, under the act of 1796,  (1 Littell, 476,) not being a housekeeper can furnish no cause for setting aside the inquest. Altho' none but housekeepers can strictly be jurors in the circuit courts yet if the objection is not made before the jury is sworn, the verdict will not, for that cause alone, be set aside. That expressly provides, that "no exceptions against any juror, on account of his estate, shall be allowed after he is sworn;" and as to be a housekeeper necessarily implies the having an estate, whether the jurors were housekeepers or not, can not be material in an application to set aside the verdict. *2 If, however, as is alleged by the appellant, he was prevented from defending the action, in consequence of a compromise of the difference with the appellee, there can not be a doubt but the inquest ought to be set aside. In deciding therefore on that branch of the appellant's motion to set aside the inquest, which involves the question of surprise, as it was predicated upon the agreement of compromise, it became material for the court below to be satisfied that such an agreement had produced the failure of the appellant to make defense. And judging from the appellant's affidavit, and that alone, as he has expressly alleged that as the cause of his failing to defend, we would have no hesitation in awarding a new trial; but taking into consideration all the evidence received by the court below on the appellant's motion, it is equally clear that the decision of that court ought not to be disturbed; for although an agreement of compromise appears to have been concluded upon between the parties, it is obvious from the evidence, that it was owing to the refusal of the appellant to perform the stipulations on his part, that the suit was not dismissed, and that he must have known before the cause was tried, that the appellee intended to prosecute the suit to a final determination. But it is contended that the court below improperly permitted counter affidavits to be used on the appellant's motion, and that it ought to have decided exclusively up on the appellant's affidavit. Generally speaking, a party certainly can not be a witness in his own cause but from the necessity of the case in applications for new trials; it is not only proper, but accords with the universal practice of the country, to allow the party to detail upon oath, the facts upon which his application is made. It is correct to permit the party opposing a new trial, to produce counter evidence. But although admissible, no reason is perceived why the affidavit of a party should be conclusive; but as the application of the present appellant, though founded upon his own affidavit, was addressed to the sound, legal discretion of the court, that discretion was properly exercised, by receiving the opposing evidence of other witnesses, introduced by the appellee. The judgment must therefore be affirmed with cost and damages. Hardin for appellant, Bibb for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Bratton v. Bryan 1 A.K.Marsh. 212, 8 Ky. 212, 1818 WL 1317 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
