(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 355,  8 Ky. 355 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1405 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. David Boothe v. William Boothe. Nov. 24, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BOURBON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 418(2) 343 Sales 343VIII Remedies of Buyer 343VIII(C) Actions for Breach of Contract 343k418 Damages 343k418(2) k. Time and Place by Which Determinable in  General. Most Cited Cases In an action for breach of covenant to convey a good title to certain slaves, where the covenantor has sold the property before a demand is made, the measure of damages is the value of the property at the time of the sale. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This action was brought in the court below to recover damages for the failure of the appellant to make to the appellee, according to his covenant, a good and lawful title of his right to a negro woman Ama, and one-half of her children. The main question presented for the decision of this court, involves an enquiry into the amount of damages which the appellee should have recovered. In the general where an act is to be performed on demand, the criterion of damages is the value of the property at the time of demand. But if the party has broken the covenant by selling the property to be delivered, before demand is made the criterion is the value of the property when the covenant is broken by the sale of the property. Assuming the covenant not to have been broken until the slaves were demanded by the appellee, we should have no doubt that the circuit court correctly instructed the jury, that the value at that time, formed the criterion for estimating the damages. But as by the declaration the appellant is alleged to have sold part of the slaves, and the evidence clearly shews him to have done so before the demand was made, in legal contemplation the covenant must have been broken by the sale, and not upon the demand; and as upon the sale the appellee might have immediately maintained his action, the value at that time should form the criterion by which the jury ought to have estimated the damages, and the court consequently erred in not so instructing them. The judgment must therefore be reversed with cost, the cause remanded, and further proceedings had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin for appellant. Ky.App. 1818. Boothe v. Boothe 1 A.K.Marsh. 355, 8 Ky. 355, 1818 WL 1405 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
