(Cite as: 3 Bibb 298,  6 Ky. 298 (Ky.),  1814 WL 767 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ormsby v. Hunton. Apr. 19, 1814. West Headnotes Specific Performance 358 k 49.1 358 Specific Performance 358II Contracts Enforceable 358k48 Consideration 358k49.1 k. Necessity. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 358k49(1)) The complainant obtained possession of a bond without paying any consideration therefor, and brought a bill for specific performance, and the bill was dismissed with costs. Appeal and Error 30 k 854(2) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(A) Scope, Standards, and Extent, in General 30k851 Theory and Grounds of Decision of Lower  Court 30k854 Reasons for  Decision 30k854(2) k. Review of Correct Decision Based  on Erroneous Reasoning in General. Most Cited Cases A correct decision will not be disturbed because the court gave a wrong or insufficient reason therefor. Appeal and Error 30 k 1026 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(J) Harmless Error 30XVI(J)1 In General 30k1025 Prejudice to Rights of Party as Ground of  Review 30k1026 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Mere irregularities which are not shown to have prejudiced the party complaining will not operate to reverse the judgment. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS was a suit in chancery, brought in the Court below by the appellant against the appellee to obtain the specific execution of a contract for the purchase of a lot in the town of Louisville. Specific execution of a contract refused, because it appeared the complainant had obtained possession of the bond conditionally, failed to perform the condition and violated his promise to return the bond. The possession taken under such circumstances was mala fide, and the possessor shall not be allowed for improvements made on the land. The complainant in a bill for specific execution, claimed demands (which were properly cognizable at law) to be set off against the purchase money, but failing to show himself entitled to specific execution, he shall not have a decree for those demands, but must seek his remedy at law. The appellee by his answer denies selling the lot to the appellant, but admits his friend John Bell, some time previous to the year 1804, informed him by letter that the appellant wished to purchase the lot in question, and would give therefor $460; that upon the receipt of this intelligence he wrote to Bell, inclosing a bond, conditioned to make a title to the lot upon application, and on the production of Bell's receipt for the purchase money; and authorized Bell, if he could get the money in time to bring it with him to Virginia, to sell the lot and deliver the bond for a title: that Bell accordingly on the receipt of the bond for a title informed the appellant thereof, and requested of him to know whether he was disposed then to purchase, and that the appellant, after advising with an attorney, declined the purchase, and promised to return to Bell the bond for a title, which he had previously procured for the purpose of obtaining advice; but he alleges the appellant, in violation of his promise, failed to return the bond, and has prosecuted this suit thereon. On a final hearing the Court below, consisting of two judges, being divided in opinion, the appellant's bill was dismissed with costs. We are of opinion the decree of the Court dismissing the bill is correct. The weight of evidence clearly and satisfactorily proves that the obligation upon which the suit is brought was not delivered as the deed of the appellee; but that Bell, to whom the appellee transmitted the bond, delivered it to the appellant for the purpose of enabling him to obtain advice, and that after procuring the advice he refused to have anything to do with the lot and promised to return the bond. Upon proof of this description, we can have no doubt but the discretion of the Court was properly exercised in refusing its aid. The statute of frauds has no application to the case: for although to make a contract obligatory in relation to land, it must be in writing, that statute does not make every writing for land binding; nor does it preclude the admission of parol evidence, such as was taken in this cause, to show from the peculiar manner of obtaining the obligation, a Court of Equity should not compel its execution. *2 If the Court is equally divided and nevertheless a decree is entered, which decree is correct, the impropriety in entering a decree when the Court were divided, cannot be assigned for error. Errors are to be assigned in the body of the decree, not in reasoning of the Court to form the decree. We are also of opinion the Circuit Court decided correctly in not decreeing compensation to the appellant for the improvements made on the lot. Had he been a bona fide possessor when those improvements were made, natural justice and equity would have concurred in requiring compensation to have been decreed. But he is presented in a very different attitude before this Court. He took possession of the lot, after refusing to purchase; and after being forbid, made the improvements for which he now asks compensation. Under such circumstances to decree compensation would be highly improper, and sanctioned by no rule of law or principle of equity. There is no error in the Court not having decreed relief to the appellant for debts which he alleges are owing him by the appellee. Those demands are purely of a legal nature, and exclusively cognizable in a Court of Law. To the objection made in argument, that the decree of the Court below dismissing the bill, was improperly entered when the Court was equally divided as to the appellant's right, it need only be remarked, that the decree conforms to the equitable rights of the parties; and whether it was produced or not by an incorrect course of reasoning, it is altogether unimportant and cannot affect its correctness or validity--Decree affirmed, etc. Ky.App. 1814. Ormsby v. Hunton 3 Bibb 298, 6 Ky. 298, 1814 WL 767 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
