(Cite as: 2 Bibb 575,  5 Ky. 575 (Ky.),  1812 WL 629 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Smith, etc. v. Dedman. Spring Term, 1812. *1 Upon traverse of an inquisition of forcible entry and detainer, if the justice stays proceedings and returns a bond, etc., it will be presumed that the penalty was fixed on security approved, and the bond executed before the justice. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 21(7) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k21 Inquisition or Other Summary Proceeding, and Review Thereof 179k21(7) k. Bonds and Liability Thereon. Most Cited  Cases On traverse of an inquisition, if the justice stays proceedings and returns a bond it will be presumed that the penalty was fixed on approved security, and the bond executed before the justice. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. Judge WALLACE absent. DEDMAN obtained from Jeremiah Davis, a justice of the peace for Montgomery county, a warrant for a forcible entry and detainer against Smith and Ferguson. The warrant was regularly executed, and on the trial the jury returned an inquest in favor of Dedman, upon which the justice awarded judgment for restitution and costs. Smith and Ferguson filed a traverse with the justice, and executed bond with William Chiles, their security, conditioned according to law; whereupon all further proceedings were stayed by the justice, and the papers and proceedings returned to the Montgomery Circuit Court. On the second day of the April term, 1811, of the Montgomery Circuit Court, Dedman joined issue on the traverse, and on a subsequent day of the term, moved the Court to discharge the traverse, and enter judgment of restitution, on the grounds: 1. That it does not appear that the security given on filing the traverse was approved of by the justice before whom the proceedings were had; 2. That it does not appear that the bond was executed or acknowledged before the justice; 3. That it does not appear that the justice fixed the penalty of the bond. The Circuit Court sustained the motion, and awarded judgment for restitution and costs. The only question necessary to be decided in this cause is, whether the Court erred in setting aside the traverse, and awarding judgment of restitution? The law requires that the person filing a traverse shall, before the justice, give bond with sufficient security, to be approved of by the justice, to his adversary, in a reasonable penalty, to be fixed by the justice; and upon such bond being given, the justice shall stay all further proceedings on the inquisition, and return the whole of the papers and proceedings to the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court. The record of the proceedings had before the justice, after setting forth all the proceedings up to the inquest and judgment of restitution awarded by him, states, "whereupon the defendants enter a traverse agreeable to law, and gave bond with William Chiles, their security, in the penalty of five hundred dollars, conditioned agreeable to an act of assembly in that case made and provided, whereupon all proceedings are stayed," etc. There is no provision in the law requiring the justice to make a record of the bond being given before him, or his having approved of the security, and fixed the penalty of the bond. But it is evident from the record returned by the justice, that the bond was regularly executed. Proceedings should not have been stayed by the justice until the law was complied with by Smith and Ferguson, in giving bond, etc. It appearing by the record that bond and security was given in a certain penalty, and the bond being returned, and proceedings stayed by the justice, the necessary conclusion is, that the bond was regularly and correctly executed. *2 The judgment of the Montgomery Circuit Court in discharging the traverse and awarding restitution is therefore erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, etc.; that the cause be remanded to that Court, for a trial to be had on the issue joined, etc. Ky.App. 1812. Smith v. Dedman 2 Bibb 575, 5 Ky. 575, 1812 WL 629 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
