(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 288,  10 Ky. 288 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1062 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Paschal D. Craddock v. James Shirly et al. 1821 *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE BARREN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 138 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(A) Title and Estate of Vendor 400k138 k. Knowledge by Purchaser of Defects. Most Cited  Cases A purchaser with notice of a defect in the title will not for that cause be relieved in equity. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Craddock purchased from Rennick, two slaves, at the price of $1,000, paid part of the price in hand, executed his obligation to Rennick for the residue, and received from him a bill of sale warranting the title of the slaves against all persons whatever. Rennick assigned one of the obligations to Shirly, but payment being refused by Craddock when it became payable, Shirly brought suit and recovered judgment at law. To obtain relief from that judgment and the obligation remaining in the hands of Rennick, Craddock exhibited his bill in equity, with an injunction against the judgment, against both Shirly and Rennick, alleging that the title of the slaves was not in Rennick at the time of sale, and the defect of title was concealed from him by Rennick; that Rennick is insolvent and unable to compensate him for the loss which will accrue in consequence of the slaves belonging to others; and asks to be relieved from the judgment at law and the obligation still held by Rennick, and such further relief as his case may require. The allegation of fraud is denied by both Shirly and Rennick, and they allege that Craddock, before, and at the time of sale, knew the situation of the title of the slaves,and?? purchased relying on the warranty of Rennick and his ability to prevent those having claim from obtaining the slaves. A purchaser buying with the full knowledge of a defect in the title of property, will not, for that defect, be permitted to come into equity for relief. The bill was dismissed on a final hearing at the cost of Craddock, and his injunction dissolved with ten per cent. damages on the amount of the judgment at law. From that judgment, Craddock has appealed to this court. This court has scarcely ever witnessed a case where there was less pretext for applying to the chancellor for relief, than the present. It not only appears, that, at the time of purchasing the slaves, Craddock well knew the difficulties in relation to the title of which he now complains, and the embarrassed circumstances of Rennick; but it also appears, that, although he received from Rennick a bill of sale warranting the title against the claim of others, he relied more upon his own skill and dexterity in preventing those having claim from recovering the possession of the slaves, than upon the ability of Rennick to make good the title; and in furtherance of that reliance, it is proven, that he has by selling the most valuable slave, caused him to be taken from the country. *2 Under these circumstances, it would be a gross perversion of the principles upon which the chancellor acts to grant relief Craddock. The decree must be affirmed with cost and damages upon the damages in the court below. Ky.App. 1821. Craddock v. Shirly 3 A.K.Marsh. 288, 10 Ky. 288, 1821 WL 1062 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
