(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 268,  21 Ky. 268 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1548 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hunter v. Gatewood. Jun. 28, 1827. *1 Competence of Witnesses. Principal and Surety. APPEAL FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Witnesses 410 k 94 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k91 Interest of Party or Other Person 410k94 k. Interest of Persons Other Than Parties in  General. Most Cited Cases The fact of interest, and not the amount of it, decides the question of competency. Witnesses 410 k 98 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k91 Interest of Party or Other Person 410k98 k. Interest Arising from Particular Obligations  or Transactions. Most Cited Cases In an action against a surety, the principal is an incompetent witness for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Gwathmey, together with James Hunter, his surety, executed a joint bond to Gatewood, for the payment of seven hundred and sixty dollars. Upon this bond, Gatewood brought a joint action against Gwathmey and Hunter, and the action was thereafter abated as to Gwathmey by the sheriff's return. Action against Hunter and Gwathmey, abated as to Gwathmey by sheriff's return. Hunter then, in defense to the action, pleaded and relied upon the statute against usury. On the trial of the issue made up to that plea, Hunter offered in evidence, the deposition of Gwathmey for the purpose of proving the usury alleged in his plea, but the deposition was objected to by Gatewood, on the ground that Gwathmey, was interested in the event of the suit, and it was rejected by the court. Plea of usury by Hunter, and Gwathmey's deposition, offered to prove it, rejected. The question for our determination is, was the court correct in rejecting the deposition? In responding to this question, it is not necessary that we should enter into a nice and critical calculation as to the amount of interest which Gwathmey may be understood to have in the matter in contest; all that is necessary, is to ascertain whether or not his interest in the event of the suit, preponderates on the side of Hunter, by whom his deposition was offered in evidence. The competency of testimony is not governed by the amount of interest; immaterial how small the interest may be, if the witness has a greater interest on the side of the party by whom he is called, than he has against him, in judgment of law, he is incompetent and his evidence should not be allowed to go to the jury. If the witness has greater interest on the side of the party who calls him than the other, he is incompetent. Tested by this rule the deposition of Gwathmey was clearly inadmissible. We attach no importance to the liability which Gwathmey may be under to Hunter, for the amount of the bond, because he stands liable for that amount to Gatewood also; so that, as respects the principal sum and interest, Gwathmey may be said to be equally interested on both sides. But there is dependant upon the event of the suit, the costs to which the successful party will be entitled, so that by a recovery against Hunter, the liability of Gwathmey, to him will be necessarily increased the amount of the costs; whereas, should Hunter succeed, Gatewood would have no legal claim upon Gwathmey, for any costs which he may have incurred in the prosecution of the suit. To the amount of the costs of suit, therefore, the interest of Gwathmey is greater on the side of Hunter, than it can be for Gatewood, and as such he is not indifferent between the parties, but interested, and incompetent as a witness for Hunter. *2 Principal obligor is not a competent witness for surety in action against surety. Accordingly it was decided by the supreme court of the United States, in the case of Riddle v. Moss, 7 Cranch, Rep. 206; that the principal obligor in a bond, is not a competent witness for the surety, in an action upon the bond, the principal being liable to the surety for costs in case the judgment should be against him. Case in the supreme court. The judgment must be affirmed with costs and damages. Crittenden, for appellant; Grayson, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Hunter v. Gatewood 5 T.B.Mon. 268, 21 Ky. 268, 1827 WL 1548 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
