(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 481,  8 Ky. 481 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1055 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William T. Young v. Thomas Lillard. Apr. 22, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE WASHINGTON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 283 343 Sales 343VI Warranties 343k281 Breach 343k283 k. Warranty of Title. Most Cited  Cases A purchaser, even with warranty, will not be compelled to receive a title and pay the purchase money, when an adverse title apparently valid has been asserted. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Rowan. On the 22d of December, 1810, Lillard sold to Young a tract of land, and gave his bond to convey the same with general warranty, in consideration whereof, Young, executed his obligation to Lillard for 400 dollars, payable in whisky, on or before the first day of March ensuing. Young having failed to pay the whisky, Lillard commenced suit upon the obligation therefor, and recovered judgment. To stay proceeding upon which, Young filed his bill, alleging that since the purchase from Lillard, he had discovered that there were two entries in the name of John A. Hamlin, which covered the whole of the tract which he purchased of Lillard, copies of which he exhibits; that the owner of said entries had threatened to bring suit against him for the land; and that he feared the title derived under said entries, was superior to that of Lillard. He prays that Lillard may exhibit his title papers, and that he may be enjoined from proceeding upon the judgment, until the right shall be investigated, and for general relief. Lillard, in his answer, alleges, that he claims under an entry in the name of Robert Thomas, and exhibits his title papers, shewing a regular deduction of title from the patentee. He insists that the entry is prior in date, and superior in equity, to that in the name of Hamlin, and ten??ders a deed, which he had always been ready to deliver to Young, upon his paying the purchase money; and he alleges that he had offered to cancel the contract, and was still willing to do so, if Young would pay the costs which had been incurred since he made the offer. By an amended bill, Young alleged, that since filing the original bill, Levi Hollingsworth, who is the owner of the claim in the name of John A. Hamlin, had commenced suit, in virtue of said claim, against him in the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, and that he greatly fears that the said claim will take the whole of the land purchased by him of Lillard. The amended bill was taken for confessed, and, on a final hearing of the cause, the circuit court, by their decree, dissolved the injunction and dismissed the bill, from which decree Young has appealed to this court. We have no doubt that Young ought not, under the circumstances of this case, to be compelled to pay the purchase money, and receive a deed from Lillard. It appears from the evidence in the cause, that the entries in the name of Hamlin are valid, and that the surveys made in conformity thereto, includes the land sold by Lilliard to Young. It is true, that the entry under which Lillard claims, is prior to those in the name of Hamlin; but there is no evidence in the cause to establish the objects upon which it depends, or to shew that it has been surveyed in conformity to its location. On this state of facts, it is clear, as there has been an assertion of right in a court of justice, under Hamlin's claim, that Young can not, consistent with the principles of equity, be compelled to pay the purchase money, and receive a deed from Lillard; and as this is the effect of the decree of the circuit court, it is, consequently, erroneous, and must be reversed. *2 A purchaser (though with warranty) will not be compelled to receive a title and pay the purchase money, if an apparently valid adverse title has been asserted; vd. Marlow v. Marlow, 2 P. Wm's, 199, acc. But what decree that court should be directed to enter up between the parties, is a matter of more doubt. The only alternatives which present themselves is either to cancel the contract immediately, or to await the final determination of the suit in the circuit court of the United States, and then to decree a cancelment of the contract or its specific execution, as may be required by the event of that suit. The latter alternative, however, we apprehend, is inadmissable, not only on account of the indefinite period to which the final decree must be suspended, but because there is nothing in this suit which can create the slightest probability that the decree, if thus suspended, would be different from what it ought to be, if now rendered. It follows therefore that the former alternative must be adopted. If there is no probability that the claim purchased will prevail, equity will enjoin the payment of the purchase money and dissolve the contract. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, that a decree may be entered cancelling the contract, and that such other and further orders and decrees may be made as may be agreeable to equity and not inconsistent with this opinion. Daviess, for appellant; B. Hardin, contra. Ky.App. 1819. Young v. Lillard 1 A.K.Marsh. 481, 8 Ky. 481, 1819 WL 1055 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
