(Cite as: 4 Litt. 148,  14 Ky. 148 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1241 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bernard, &c. v. The Commonwealth, for Lewis. Oct. 15, 1823. *1 FROM THE CALDWELL CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. BENJAMIN SHACKLEFORD SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 1050.1(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(J) Harmless Error 30XVI(J)10 Admission of Evidence 30k1050 Prejudicial Effect in  General 30k1050.1 Evidence in  General 30k1050.1(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 30k1050(1)) The admission of evidence in certain cases held harmless, or not reversible error. CRITTENDEN for appellants; BIBB for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. By order of the county court of Caldwell, John Bernard was appointed jailer, and thereupon, together with M. A. Rucker, James Morse and John Rucker, his sureties, executed bond to the commonwealth, in the penalty of one thousand dollars, conditioned "to well and truly, faithfully and legally discharge the duties enjoined on him, the said Bernard, by law, as jailer," Upon this bond suit was brought in the name of the commonwealth, for the use of Gabriel Lewis, &c. against Bernard, and his sureties. The declaration sets out the bond and condition, and after alleging that a suit was brought by Gabriel Lewis, &c. against a certain James Martin, in the Logan circuit court, and such proceedings were therein had, as that judgment was finally rendered in favor of said Lewis, &c. for ninety-one dollars and forty-one cents, and interest thereon, together with costs, amounting to seven dollars and ninety and one-half cents; and after stating that said Lewis, &c. afterwards caused to be issued upon said judgment a capias ad satisfaciendum against the said Martin, directed to the sheriff of Caldwell county, and caused the same to be put into the hands of the said sheriff of Caldwell county, before the return day thereof, to be executed on the body of said Martin; and after alleging that in virtue of said ca. sa. one of the regularly qualified deputies of the said sheriff of Caldwell, before the return day thereof, arrested the body of said Martin, and took, delivered, placed and put him, the said Martin in the hand, custody and control of the said Bernard, as jailer of the county of Caldwell, to be dealt with by the said Bernard according to law; and after charging that the said Bernard then and there received and took into his care, management and safekeeping, as jailer aforesaid, the said Martin, for breach, avers that the said Bernard did not keep and comply with the covenant and condition of his said bond, so given and executed as jailer, but wholly broke and violated the same, in this, viz. that after said Martin was so put and delivered into his custody as jailer, and in violation of the duties of his said office as jailer, when no part of the demand of said Lewis, &c. was paid by said Martin, without causing said Martin to execute bond with security, as required by law, to keep within the prison rules of said county of Caldwell, he, the said Bernard, then and there carelessly, negligently, voluntarily and illegally failed to commit said Martin to the jail of said county and then and there negligently, carelessly voluntarily and illegally suffered and permitted the said Martin to go at large and at liberty, when and where he chose; and that the said Martin, without paying the demand of said Lewis, &c. and without being legally discharged by due course of law, escaped, departed, and went out of the rules set apart and designated by the county court of Caldwell, for the jail of that county, &c. *2 A declaration on a jailer's bond, held good on demurrer. A jailer's receipt for a prisoner committed to his custody, ought not to go in evidence to the jury, unless the execution of it is proved. But the admission of it in evidence without proof on a writ of inquiry, will not be sufficient cause for reversing the judgment; because, on a writ of inquiry, all the material facts alleged in the declaration are admitted, and the production of the receipt, with or without proof, is unnecessary. In an action of debt on a jailer's bond, for an escape, the plaintiff can recover no more damages than he can prove he has sustained; and if he does not prove that he lost the debt, or part of it, in consequence of the escape, only nominal damages can be recovered. To this declaration Bernard, &c. demurred, and the demurrer being joined by the plaintiff in the court below, was overruled by that court. After the demurrer was overruled, the defendants in that court failing to answer, judgment was entered against them, and a writ of inquiry awarded, to assess the damages. On executing the writ of inquiry, the plaintiffs introduced as evidence, a receipt purporting to be signed by John B. Bernard, J. C. C. and importing an acknowledgment by him, of his having received of a deputy sheriff of Caldwell county, the body of James Martin, who had been arrested by the said deputy, under a ca. sa. from the clerk's office of Logan circuit court, in favor of Gabriel Lewis, &c. against said Martin, for ninety-one dollars and forty-one cents, with interest and costs, &c. The receipt was objected to by the defendants; but their objections were overruled, and the receipt read in evidence. No other evidence was offered to the jury, and the counsel of the defendants moved the court to instruct the jury, that from the evidence they should find nominal damages only; but the motion was overruled. In an action of debt brought under the statute for an escape, the whole amount of the debt for which the prisoner was in custody, may be recovered, without any proof of its being lost in consequence of the escape. But this doctrine does not apply to an action of debt brought on the jailer's bond. The jury assessed damages to the amount of one hundred and sixteen dollars and twenty-five cents, and judgment was thereon finally rendered in favor of the plaintiff. From that judgment the defendants have appealed to this court. It is assigned for error, 1st, That the court erred in its decision on the demurrer to the declaration; 2dly, that the court erred in permitting the receipt introduced by the plaintiff in that court, to go in evidence; 3dly, that the court erred in refusing to give the instructions as asked for by the defendants, to the jury. The decision upon the demurrer, we think, is correct. The bond upon which this action is founded, is in substance such an one as is required to be taken from jailers, and the act of this country gives to every person injured by the acts of a jailer, the right to sue upon the bond. In such a suit, it is no doubt necessary that the declaration should set out an injury which has resulted to the person putting the bond in suit, by some act of the jailer, in violation of the duties of his office. Such is, however, the injury charged in the present declaration. If, instead of departing from the limits of the rules assigned by the county court of Caldwell, Martin had confined himself to those limits, we should not be of opinion that the action of the plaintiff could be sustained, though no bond and security was taken by Bernard of Martin, to keep within the rules of the prison, as was decided by this court in the case of  Steinman, &c. v. Tabb, &c. 3 Bibb 202. But, in this case, the declaration alleges an escape from the prison rules by Martin; and although that escape is not expressly charged in the declaration, to have been either wilfully or voluntarily permitted by Bernard, yet, in a previous part of the declaration, he is charged with having voluntarily permitted Martin to go at liberty, without requiring of him bond and security for keeping within the rules of the prison; and after having done so, Bernard must be understood to have voluntarily permitted Martin thereafter to escape from the rules of the prison. *3 We differ, however, in opinion, from the court below, as to the propriety of permitting the receipt introduced by the plaintiff, to go in evidence to the jury. If it had been proved to have been given by Bernard, it would, no doubt, have been competent evidence upon the trial of an issue involving the fact, to prove that Martin had been received in custody by Bernard, under the execution therein referred to; but, to be evidence for that purpose, its execution by Bernard ought to be proved by evidence aliunde, and no such evidence appears to have been produced on the trial. In this case, there is, however, no issue which required the introduction of evidence of that sort. By permitting judgment to go against them by default, the defendants had admitted every fact which the receipt was calculated to prove, and that admission was conclusive on the jury, without being supported by evidence. Whilst we would therefore, admit that the receipt ought not to have been permitted to go in evidence to the jury, as it went merely to prove a fact admitted by the pleadings, we should not, for that cause, be disposed to reverse the judgment of the court below. The remaining question involves the correctness of the decision of the court in refusing to instruct the jury to find nominal damages only. It is perfectly clear, that no evidence was produced on the trial, going to fix the amount of damages actually sustained by Lewis, &c. By failing to plead, the defendants must be presumed to have admitted the escape of Martin, as well as the amount of the ca. sa. of Lewis, &c. under which he was committed to the custody of Bernard; but it does not thence follow, that Lewis, &c. have sustained damages to an amount equal to the sum for which the ca. sa. issued against Martin; for, notwithstanding the escape Lewis, &c. may nevertheless maintain an action against Martin for the amount of their ca. sa. and there is nothing in the record conducing to show that Martin was less able to pay, at the time of the trial, than when he escaped from the prison. If, therefore, the actual damage sustained by Lewis, &c. forms the correct criterion of damages to be recovered in an action of this sort, it must necessarily follow, that the instructions ought to have been given to the jury; for it is unquestionably incumbent on a plaintiff to prove the extent of his damages, and if Lewis, &c. have failed to do so, nominal damages only should have been assessed by the jury on the writ of inquiry. But the question occurs, ought the jury, in estimating damages to have been governed by the amount of damage actually sustained by Lewis, &c.? No satisfactory answer to this question is to be found in the act of the legislature requiring jailers to execute bonds, and authorizing suits thereon, The act simply provides that the bond may be put in suit by any person injured by the acts of the jailer. But if we advert to the doctrine of the common law, it will be found, that in estimating damages in actions for an escape, the jury are always governed by the injury which the plaintiff has sustained. We are aware, that in cases of escapes on final process, by a statute of England, reenacted in this country, the plaintiff is permitted, by action of debt, to recover the entire sum for which the prisoner was charged in execution; but the remedy given by that statute has been held to be merely cumulative, and has never been supposed to change the rule as to the extent of recovery in the common law action. The right of the plaintiff to recover the entire debt, grows out of the peculiar phraseology of the statute giving the action of debt, and has never been confined to that particular action. The present is an action of debt, but it is an action of debt upon the jailer's bond, and not such an action of debt as that alluded to in the statute, and not an action in which a recovery greater that at common law can be had. *4 It results, therefore, that as the extent of the damages sustained by the relators in the court below, was not shown by them in evidence, the court ought to have given the instruction to the jury. The judgment must consequently be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to the court below, and further proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Bernard v. Commonwealth 4 Litt. 148, 14 Ky. 148, 1823 WL 1241 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
