(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 58,  17 Ky. 58 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1483 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Smith v. Connelly's Heirs. Oct. 9, 1824. *1 Mills, Inquest. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Eminent Domain 148 k 168(3) 148 Eminent Domain 148III Proceedings to Take Property and Assess Compensation 148k168 Right to Institute Proceedings 148k168(3) k. Owner of Land. Most Cited  Cases The applicant for leave to erect a mill must have the fee simple on one or both sides of the stream. Eminent Domain 148 k 198(1) 148 Eminent Domain 148III Proceedings to Take Property and Assess Compensation 148k198 Hearing and Determination as to Right to Take 148k198(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases The inquest in a proceeding for permission to erect a mill ought to show the injury to each acre, and the number of acres injured;  also, the amount of damages to each proprietor of land above and below the site. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Statement of the case. This is a writ of error to an order of the county court of Montgomery, giving permission to the heirs of Connelly to build a mill. Various questions are made by the assignment of errors, two of which only will be noticed. (1.) The first question to which we allude, relates to the sufficiency of the inquest returned by the jury to that court. Under the act of the legislature prescribing the duty of the jury, it is undoubtedly necessary that they should examine the land above and below the place proposed for erecting the mill, belonging to others and which may probably be overflowed, and report specially the damage which may result by the erection of the mill. In performing the duty assigned them, the jury appears, by the inquest returned in this case, not to have been entirely regardless of the injunctions of the law. They appear to have gone upon the land, and ascertained the land which may be damaged above and below, to be of the value of seven dollars per acre; but they have been remiss in not ascertaining the quantity of acres which in their opinion would be damaged. (1) The inquest ad quod damnum, in a proceeding, for permission to erect a mill?? ought regularly to show the damage to each proprietor of lands, above and below the site. It would certainly be more regular, for the jury to report the precise sum which they might think the several proprietors of the land above and below would be damaged; but if, instead of doing so, they should ascertain the value per acre, and the quantity of acres, as the amount of damage might then be ascertained from the report, by the court, the inquest ought to be sustained. It might be sufficient to show the quantity of land of each proprietor, that would be overflowed, and value per acre; but finding the value without the quantity, will not do. In this case, however, the value per acre of the land is only ascertained, without ascertaining the quantity; and of course the court had no means of ascertaining the damage, so as to require the applicant to pay the amount of damage to the proprietor, on giving leave to erect the mill. *2 The inquest was, therefore, defective, and ought to have been quashed. (2.) The other question relates to the decision of the court in giving leave to erect the mill. And here we would remark, that the act of assembly no where authorizes the court to give permission to any person to erect a mill, unless he has the fee simple estate, either on one or both sides of the stream upon which the mill is proposed to be built; and in this case the evidence shows satisfactorily, that the applicants have no such estate. (2) The applicant for leave to erect a mill, must have the fee simple estate on one or both sides of the stream. The order of the county court must, consequently, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, and the inquest of the jury quashed, and such further proceedings had, as may not be inconsistent with this opinion. Talbot and Triplett, for plaintiffs Wickliffe, for def't. Ky.App. 1824. Smith v. Connelly's Heirs 1 T.B.Mon. 58, 17 Ky. 58, 1824 WL 1483 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
