(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 386,  8 Ky. 386 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1425 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Michael Couchman's Heirs v. Mary O'Bannon. Nov. 30, 1818. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 50 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k50 k. Statutory Creation of Remedy. Most Cited  Cases Equity, having jurisdiction to relieve against fraudulent devises, is not deprived of jurisdiction by the enactment of a statute on that subject. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: O'Bannon having, as she alleges, been evicted from a tract of land purchased by her of Couchman, and for which Couchman gave her an obligation to convey, she brought this suit in chancery, against the administrator of Couchman, his heirs, and John Rowan, for the purpose of obtaining indemnity for the breach of covenant, out of a debt due by Rowan for the purchase of a tract of land, alleged to have descended from Couchman to his heirs. The cause having been brought to a final hearing, and the court below supposing that O'Bannon was entitled to relief, and there being no assets in the hands of the administrator, decreed compensation to be made her by Rowan, out of the debt which he was owing for the purchase of the land. From the exhibits and evidence in the cause, there is no doubt, but that O'Bannon is justly entitled to indemnity for the failure of Couchman to convey, but it is contended that to obtain that indemnity, she should have resorted to her action at law, so that the main question presented for decision involves an inquiry into the propriety of a court of equity, under the circumstances of this case, giving relief. If the circumstance of O'Bannon's case being cognizable at law, should preclude the intervention of a court of equity, there is no question but that relief ought not, in the present case, to have been given. For although, after the purchase by Rowan, the heirs were not, upon common law principles, chargeable, it is perfectly clear that, under the act against fraudulent devises, (1 Lit. 59) O'Bannon might, notwithstanding that purchase, have maintained an action against them, at law. A court of chancery having jurisdiction to relieve against fraudulent devises before the statute on that subject (1 Lit., 59), her jurisdiction is not defeated by the enactment of that statute. But we apprehend that circumstance ought not to preclude relief in equity. For the act against fraudulent devises appears to be a literal transcript from an act of the Virginia legislature, taken from a statute of William and Mary, and that statute has never been held to exclude the chancellor from interposing in cases like the present. But on the contrary it is said, that, under that statute, when the lands descended have been aliened, the creditor of the ancestor, upon a bill against the heir and purchaser will be relieved. 1 Equity cases abridged, 149. To grant relief in such a case is, in fact, nothing more than doing what the chancellor might have done before the enactment of the statute. For although after an alienation of the lands descended, by the heir, there existed no remedy at common law against him, yet before the statute of William and Mary, relief would have been given in equity. 1 Peer Williams, 777. *2 And upon the principle of a court of equity possessing the power since the statute, to do what might have been done before its passage, this court, in the case of Strode against Cox's heirs, (3 Bibb, 273), sustained the jurisdiction of a court of equity in a case similar to the one now under consideration. The decree must be affirmed with cost and damages. Wickliffe, for appellant; B. Hardin, for appellee. Ky.App. 1818. Couchman's Heirs v. O'Bannon 1 A.K.Marsh. 386, 8 Ky. 386, 1818 WL 1425 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
