(Cite as: 3 Bibb 148,  6 Ky. 148 (Ky.),  1813 WL 629 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Vance v. Marshall.FNa1 FNa1. This cause was argued by Hardin, for the appellant, and by Talbot for the appellee. Nov. 16, 1813. West Headnotes Boundaries 59 k 1 59 Boundaries 59I Description 59k1 k. General Rules of Construction. Most Cited Cases An ancient marked line, corresponding in course with a boundary, and agreeing in ancient appearance with the true boundary of a survey, was held to be a part of said boundary. Boundaries 59 k 7 59 Boundaries 59I Description 59k7 k. Location of Corners. Most Cited Cases The magnetic, and not the true, meridian was held to be the proper guide for ascertaining the beginning of a survey. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS is a contest for land, between adversary titles. The appellant, who was defendant in the Court below, holds the eldest entry and patent: we will therefore first inquire into the validity of his claim. The certificate for marking and improving must contain a precise location to give the claim the dignity of pre-emption--Acc. Fryer v. Holder's heirs, ante 137--vol. 2, Doolin v. Farrow, 363--M'Min v. Stafford, 487-9 -- Clinkinbeard v. Kenny, 415--vol 1, Ward and Kenton v. Lee, assignee of Young, 25--Same v. Lee and Orr, 32--Bryant and Owings v. Wallace, Hughes 209, 216--M'Clenahan v. Berry, 177--Myers v. Speed, 99, 100. An improvement on a stream where there were many others, not certainly described and not notorious as the improvement of V. cannot support his location calling for his improvement. That it was known to one company of improvers, not sufficient evidence of notoriety--Accord. Bowman v. Melton, vol. 2, 155 6 Harrison's heirs ??. Deremiah, 349?? John Vance, under whom he claims, obtained from the Court of Commissioners, the 14th of January, 1780, the following certificate, viz: "John Vance, by David Vance, this day claims a pre-emption of 1000 acres of land, at, etc. lying on a fork of east branch of Licking creek, called Mill creek, to include his improvement, by marking and improving the same in 1776, by building a cabin," etc. And on the first day of June 1780, made the following entry with the surveyor: "John Vance enters a pre-emption warrant of 1000 acres, on a fork of the east branch of Licking creek, called Mill creek." That both certificate and entry are defective in precise description, we have no doubt. Mill creek is admitted to be about six miles long, with various improvements thereon; but on what part of the creek Vance's improvement could be found, or when found how distinguishable from other improvements on the creek, neither the certificate nor entry has shown. Unless, therefore, Vance's improvement had acquired the requisite notoriety at the date of his entry, to supply this defect in description, his entry must fail; and that the evidence does not prove such a notoriety, we think evident: for although it is proven that if a subsequent locator had happened to have fallen in with one of the company who assisted in making Vance's improvement, he might have acquired information where it could be found, yet it is not proven to have obtained that degree of notoriety by which a subsequent locator, by the exercise of reasonable diligence, might have certainly found it. The appellant then can have no advantage from the elder date of his entry, but must rely for success on his elder patent. We will therefore inquire into the validity of the appellee's claim. He derives title under the following entry: "June 16, 1780--Col. Thomas Marshall enters 1050 acres, upon a treasury warrant, to begin at the end of two miles and a half east of William May's spring, where the said May's settlement and pre-emption is located, then to run N. 22 1/2 east 1280 poles, and to extend from each end of said line eastwardly for quantity; lying on the waters of the north fork of Licking creek, on the south side thereof." *2 In the progress of this cause in the Court below, it was admitted by the parties that the just and legal construction of the appellee's entry is to begin two and a half miles east from May's lick, and then run as called for in the entry; and it is now urged for the appellant that this admission should not bind him, because it is contended it is an admission of law contrary to the just construction of the entry. It is proven that a large buffalo road, leading from Limestone to the Blue Licks and usually traveled by passengers, passed May's lick at the date of this entry; and that the lick was then generally known by those conversant in that part of the country. To justify the construction given to the entry by the parties in their agreement, May's lick and May's spring alluded to in the entry must be one and the same place. Of this the parties appear not to have been ignorant previous to making the admission: for whether the lick and spring is the same place, was a fact then in contest, to which evidence had been taken. The admission, therefore, was not a conclusion of law only, contrary to the just construction of the entry, but contains an admission of the fact of identity in the spring and lick, and the regular conclusion of law applicable to that fact. The parties by their admission having agreed the appellee's entry should begin two and a half miles east of the lick, and the identity and notoriety of the lick having been abundantly proven, the question occurs, should the beginning be at the end of two and a half miles from the lick, according to the true or magnetic meridian. The words of the entry should be construed according to their usual and ordinary acceptation; and it is believed that calls in entries for given courses, were usually and generally understood to be according to the magnetic meridian. This, we apprehend, is evident from the general, if not universal custom which has prevailed in this country among surveyors in executing surveys according to the magnetic meridian. Beside, to have made subsequent locators regard such calls according to the true meridian, would have been requiring more perhaps than could have been attained by most of the locators in the country: for it is believed instruments were not then to be had in the country by which the true meridian could have been correctly ascertained. The words of an entry to be construed according to their usual and ordinary acceptation--Acc. Hite v. Graham, vol. 2, 143. We are of opinion, therefore, the beginning of the appellee's survey should be ascertained according to the magneticFNa1 meridian. But it is contended that if the call for course should be construed according to the magnetic meridian, the survey should have been executed agreeable to the magnetic meridian at the date of the entry, and not as it was when the survey was made; and hence it is inferred the Court below erred in establishing the appellee's survey, which was made according to the magnetic meridian, when the survey bears date in 1784. Were it admitted the magnetic meridian was materially different when the survey was made, to what it was at the making of the entry, the conclusion drawn by the appellant would be inevitably true: for it is clear the survey should be made according to the magneticFNa2 meridian when the entry was made, and not as it might be at the executing of the survey. But what may be the variation of the compass between any given periods, is a fact this Court cannot judiciously notice, unless proven. No proof has been made in this case of any variation between the date of the entry and that of the survey, and we cannot judicially say a material variation exists prejudicial to the appellant. We cannot say, therefore, the Court below erred in establishing the beginning of the appellee's survey. FNa1. Sed quoere--Vide act of Virginia, Chan. Rev. p. 23, ch. 12--1 Litt. E. L. K. p. 389--Finnie v. Clay, vol. 2. p. 352. By the statute of Virginia of 1772, it is enacted, that after the first of January, 1773, every surveyor shall, under the penalty of five pounds, "return all his or their original or new surveys, and protract and lay down their plats by the true, and not by artificial or magnetic meridian"--and moreover express in their return of each survey the true quantity or degree of the variation aforesaid, and whether it be east or west. FNa2. According to the true meridian, the expression East is intelligible to surveyors and mathematicians; it is always the same, whether used in 1780 or 1813--in January or December; but according to the magnetic needle, the course East is changeable, varying in different years, and progressing in its variation from the month of January to the month of December. To ascertain what was the precise variation in any given year or month, is now very difficult, if not impossible; but it is always practicable to ascertain the variation at the time being, and to execute a survey by the true meridian. By making entries relate to the true meridian, all are referred to one uniform standard, and whether entered and surveyed in the same year, or in 1779 and in 1813, the result will be the same. *3 Entry calling to begin two and a half miles E. of May's lick, etc., the beginning is to be ascertained by the magnetic meridian, and the survey executed according to the magnetic meridian at the date of the entry. The Court cannot judicially take notice that any variation of the magnetic meridian has occurred between the date of the entry and the date of the survey--the variation between given periods is a fact to be proved. The same answer may be given to the objections raised in argument, as to the variations of the lines of the survey. The only remaining question for consideration is as to the boundary of the appellee's survey. It appears to have been made in a rectangular figure; all the corners and lines are proven to have been marked when the survey was executed, except the south boundary or last line, which is proven to have been marked but part of the way only. The last corner of the survey is now missing, and an ancient marked line of 612 poles long, corresponding in course with the south boundary, and agreeing in ancient appearance with the true boundary of the survey, is shown. Whether, therefore, this line should form a part of the south boundary of the appellee's survey, is the remaining question for decision. We have no doubt but that it should. The perfect coincidence in the course between the line called for and the marked line; its ancient appearance, and the circumstance of the line not having been marked but part the distance, conduce clearly and satisfactorily to establish this marked line as a line of the original survey. We think, therefore, the Court erred in disregarding that line as a part of the boundary. The decree of the Court below, therefore, must be reversed, the cause remanded and a decree there entered making that line, so far as it extends, the south boundary, and a line to be extended from its termination to the beginning the remaining south boundary. And for so much land as will be included in the appellee's survey, when thus made, he has the better right, and the appellant should convey to him by deed of special warranty. The appellee must pay the appellant his costs in this Court, etc. Ky.App. 1813. Vance v. Marshall 3 Bibb 148, 6 Ky. 148, 1813 WL 629 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
