(Cite as: 3 Bibb 314,  6 Ky. 314 (Ky.),  1814 WL 773 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lowry, etc. v. Jenkins. Oct. 21, 1813. *1 This cause was decided at fall term, 1813--Upon petition for rehearing, the decision was suspended until this term. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 397 228 Judgment 228IX Opening or Vacating 228k397 k. Order. Most Cited Cases Where the court orders commissioners to be appointed, and render judgment on their report, and afterwards passes an order, setting aside the order by which the commissioners were appointed, this does not affect the judgment. Appeal and Error 30 k 5 30 Appeal and Error 30I Nature and Form of Remedy 30k3 Proper Mode of Review 30k5 k. Writ of error;  restricted appeal. Most Cited  Cases An order of court setting aside an order appointing commissioners can be reviewed only by writ of error. Ejectment 142 k 120(1.5) 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k118 Execution and Enforcement of Judgment 142k120 Writ of Possession 142k120(1.5) k. Form and requisites. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 142k120(11/2)) It is irregular to issue a joint habere facias upon separate judgments in ejectment. Ejectment 142 k 120(6) 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k118 Execution and Enforcement of Judgment 142k120 Writ of Possession 142k120(6) k. Vacating or quashing writ. Most Cited  Cases Where, in ejectment, the tenants made separate defenses, and separate judgments were rendered, one of the defendants may move to quash the execution. Ejectment 142 k 122 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k122 k. Restitution. Most Cited Cases Where an habere facias on a judgment in ejectment has been executed and is quashed, a writ of restitution should issue. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THE appellants having brought an action of ejectment in the Jessamine Court, upon the motion of Lewis Craig, he was admitted defendant, and at a subsequent term confessed judgment, and a writ of habere facias possessionem was awarded against him. The appellee, Jenkins, also during the pendency of the ejectment, was admitted a defendant, and subsequent to the judgment being awarded against Craig, he agreed that judgment should be entered against him; and accordingly judgment was awarded in favor of the appellant, John Lowry, against the appellee. At a subsequent term, on the motion of the appellants, commissioners were appointed to ascertain the improvements, rents, etc., according to the provisions of the act concerning occupying claimants of land; and the commissioners having reported a balance of 23l.i 9is.i 6Id. in favor of the appellee, judgment was entered in his favor for that sum. *2 Ejectment--Separate defense is made by tenants and separate judgments rendered--notice given by one that he will move the Court to quash the habere facias possessionem, is regular. Length of notice to depend upon the circumstances of each case; the grounds of the motion being founded on the record one day sufficient. Irregular to issue a joint habere facias possessionem on separate judgments: to where one judgment was rendered against one defendant more than a year prior to the writ, execution cannot issue without scire facias. Writ of possession which has been executed, being avoided, a writ of restitution should go. Order setting aside one appointing commissioners does not affect a judgment founded on their report. Judgment setting aside an order appointing commissioners, and quashing an execution, are distinct and cannot be joined in an appeal. Several years after, judgments were entered in the ejectment against Craig and Jenkins; without a revival being had against Jenkins, the appellants caused a habere facias possessionem to issue against both Craig and Jenkins, which was executed by the sheriff delivering possession of the land recovered to the appellants. After which the appellee, on the 29th October, 1811, caused a notice to be given the appellant, that he would on the next day move the Court of Jessamine to set aside the report of the commissioners, quash the writ of habere facias possessionem, and to award him restitution, etc. On the motion being brought on, the appellants appeared by their attorney and moved for a continuance, which was overruled, and the Court ordered the order appointing commissioners to be set aside, the writ of execution to be quashed, and restitution to be made of the land: from which the appellants have appealed. The first inquiry presented for consideration, is, as to the sufficiency of the notice. It is objected that it is insufficient, because it was given by one of the defendants in the execution, and that it was unreasonably short. Whether in ordinary cases a notice given by one to quash an execution which issues against two or more, would be sufficient, we think unnecessary to determine; because even if such a rule in ordinary cases should prevail, the circumstances of this case will not justify its application. Craig and Jenkins did not make a joint defense in the ejectment. Separate judgments were awarded against them for different parcels of land. And it is conceived by the appellants, by joining them in one execution, could not prevent either from availing himself of any legal objection or defense which he otherwise would have been entitled to. What length of notice should be given in cases of this description, must depend on the circumstances of each particular case. And although in the present case the notice was very short, when it is considered that the grounds upon which the motion was founded, depended on matter of record, and that those facts which the appellants desired time to prove, were admitted by the appellee; we cannot say the notice was so unreasonable as to justify a reversal of the judgment of the Court below for that cause. We think the notice, therefore, substantially good, and that the Court decided correctly in sustaining the motion to quash. *3 That the habere facias possessionem issued improperly and irregularly there can be no doubt. It should have issued against Craig only, and not against Craig and Jenkins. The judgment against Jenkins having been awarded for more than one year prior to the date of the writ, could not justify an execution, unless previously revived by scire facias; and there having been no revival in this case against the appellee, the execution was evidently erroneous, and the Court consequently decided correctly in sustaining the motion and quashing the execution. If, then, the Court decided correctly in quashing the execution, it necessarily results that their decision awarding a restitution is also correct: for it is clear wherever a writ of habere facias possessionem, which has been executed by giving possession, is avoided by the judgment of a Court, a writ of restitution should be awarded. It is assigned for error that the Court erred in setting aside the order appointing commissioners. We think this objection cannot avail, because if the Court erred in setting aside the order, the appellants have no right to complain. Judgment had been awarded the appellee for the balance reported by the commissioners in his favor. The order of the Court in setting aside the order by which the commissioners were appointed, did not affect the judgment on the report. It can have no possible effect against the appellants. But were the order erroneous and prejudicial to the appellants, it is conceived it should not be regarded in this appeal. The judgment setting aside the order, relates to an entire and distinct subject from that of the quashing the execution, etc. The judgment in relation to the latter, forms the proper subject of an appeal, but that in relation to the former could only justify a writ of error. If, therefore, the judgment of the Court in setting aside the order would of itself not justify an appeal, it is conceived it being pronounced at the same time that judgment quashing the execution was awarded, cannot authorize an inquiry into its correctness upon an appeal. Upon the whole we think the judgment quashing the execution and awarding restitution is correct and must be affirmed with costs. The opinion on the petition for rehearing was delivered on the 23d of April, 1814, as follows, by Judge OWSLEY: An opinion was delivered in this case at the last term of this Court, affirming the judgment of the Court below. A rehearing of the cause was then asked, for the various reasons stated in the appellants' petition; but upon further examination, we still think the former opinion correct. The only point on which there can be any room for doubt, is as to the effect of an order made by the Court below at the October term, 1810. If that order has the effect of authorizing the emanation of the habere facias against the appellee for the land of which restitution was awarded him by the judgment of the Court below, the reasons upon which this Court went in the former opinion fail, and that opinion should consequently be set aside. But we apprehend that order cannot be considered to have such efficacy. It states, "that on the motion of the appellants a writ of habere facias possessionem is awarded them." But it may be asked, awarded them against whom, and for what? If it be said for the land in question, it is answered, there is nothing in the record to show it. If it be said against the defendants against whom the writ issued, it is answered the record does not so express it, and there is no judgment for land in favor of the appellants jointly against the appellee from which such a presumption can arise. *4 We think, therefore, the order made at the October term, did not justify the writ of hab. fa. pos. and that it consequently irregularly issued before a revival of the judgment by scire facias, according to the opinion heretofore given, and that the petition for a rehearing must be overruled. Ky.App. 1813. Lowry v. Jenkins 3 Bibb 314, 6 Ky. 314, 1814 WL 773 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
