(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 572,  8 Ky. 572 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1008 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Chalfant's Adm'r v. Hart's Adm'r. Jun. 10, 1819. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 450 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k450 k. Evidence. Most Cited Cases The inventory and appraisement of an intestate's estate are admissible in evidence in an action against the executor. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 This was an action of debt brought by the appellees against the appellant, upon a replevin bond. Debt may be sustained on a replevy bond, and the recital of the condition in the declaration, is at most but surplusage. Two pleas were filed by the appellants--one of payment, the other plene administravit; and issues in fact being made up, the appellees were permitted, on the trial, to use in evidence before the jury a copy, taken from the records of the county court, of an appraisement of the appellant's intestate's estate, and a verdict and judgment being obtained against the appellants, they have appealed to this court, and assigned for error-- 1. That the court erred in overruling the demurrer to the declaration. 2. The court erred in permitting the copy of the appraisement to go in evidence to the jury. 3. The verdict of the jury, as to the amount of assets, is erroneous. The declaration is objected to, 1st, on the grounds of an action of debt not being sustainable; and secondly, on account of the condition of the bond having been recited in the declaration. There was certainly no necessity to recite the condition of the bond in the declaration; but its having been recited, at most, can be considered but as surplusage, and as such does not vitiate the declaration. And with respect to the other objection to the declaration, whether the bond be considered as assuming the dignity of a judgment or in the light of an ordinary obligation, it is perfectly clear that debt may be brought to enforce its payment. And with respect to the admission of the evidence, we have no doubt the court decided correctly. The 38th section of the act of 1797, concerning executors, & c. 1 Littell, 621, expressly makes both inventories and appraisements admissible evidence against executors or administrators; and when admitted to record, as in every other case of records, a transcript, such as that used upon the trial in the court below, is, no doubt, admissible evidence. Inventories and appraisements of a decedent's estate are evidence against an executor or administrator, and a transcript from the record is admissible. And with respect to the amount of assets found by the jury, it need only be remarked, that no exceptions appear to have been taken against the verdict in that court, and there is nothing in the record from which this court can say the verdict is not authorized by the evidence introduced upon the trial. The judgment must be affirmed with cost and damages. Ky.App. 1819. Chalfant's Adm'r v. Hart's Adm'r 1 A.K.Marsh. 572, 8 Ky. 572, 1819 WL 1008 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
