(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 531,  22 Ky. 531 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1177 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rankin's Heirs v. Rankin's Executors. Jan. 7, 1828. *1 Forfeitures. Felony. Wills. Constitutional Law. APPEAL FROM THE BOURBON COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Convicts 98 k 21 98 Convicts 98k21 k. Status, Rights, and Disabilities. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 98k1) One under sentence of death for a crime is not considered civilly dead. Convicts 98 k 21 98 Convicts 98k21 k. Status, Rights, and Disabilities. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 98k3) One convicted of murder, and sentenced to be executed, may make a disposition of his property by will. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE OWSLEY. Reuben Rankin was charged with the murder of John Blake, and was indicted for the offence, put upon his trial, found guilty by the verdict of a jury, and sentenced to be hung by the judgment of the court. Will of Rankin, made between his suffering the judgment of death, for murder, and his execution, proved and admitted to record by the county court. Between the time when the sentence of condemnation was pronounced, and the period fixed by the court for his execution, Rankin departed this life, having previous to his death, but after sentence, in due and legal form, made and published his last will and testament in writing, by which he disposed of all his estate. The will was afterwards presented to the county court of Bourbon for probate, by the executors therein named, and though contested by the heirs of Rankin, it was proved and admitted to record. The heirs being dissatisfied with the decision of the county court, have brought the case before this court for revision. Appeal by the heirs of the testator. The execution of the will, by the testator, in legal form, is not contested by the heirs, nor do they pretend that he was not, at the date of the will of sane mind; but it is argued by their counsel, that after the testator was convicted of the murder charged against him, he was civiliter mortuus, and therefore incapable of making a valid will. Objected against the testament, that the testator having received judgment of death for felony, was civiliter mortuus. The premises assumed in this argument, are certainly not without semblance of authority for their support. Lord Coke in his commentary on Littleton, 130, a, says, that "besides men attainted in a proemunire, any person that is attainted of high treason, petit treason or felony, is disabled to bring any action, for he is extra le??em positus, and is accounted in law, civiliter mortuus." Cases of civil death by the English law. But when this passage is compared with what is said by him in other parts of his institutes, it will be perceived that this dictum was not intended by him in the full latitude of expression. In the same institute, page 132, a, Lord Coke seems to confine the civil death to persons professed, or who have abjured the realm, or been banished by statute, or process of law; and in his third institute, 215, he says, that there is a great diversity between an attainder of treason or felony, and an entry into religion. He that is attainted or treason or felony, have capacity to purchase lands, to him and his heirs, which he can not do who enters into religion. *2 Diversity between the effects o?? conviction for treason, felony &c. and an entry into religion. In the case of Banyster v. Trussel, (Cro. Eliz. 516), it was adjudged in an action brought against a person attainted of felony, he could not plead the attainder in bar, but should be put to answer. The same doctrine was recognized and confirmed by the court of King's bench in the case of Ramsay v. M'Donald, 1 Wilson, 217. Foster in his Crown Law, observes, that a person attainted is not absolutely at the disposal of the crown. He is so, for the ends of public justice, and for no other purpose. Until execution, his creditors have an interest in his person, for securing their debts, and he is himself under the protection of the law, and to kill him is murder. Person attainted of felony might be sued. He was indeed, disabled to sue in his own name, but if beaten or maimed while under attainder, or if a woman was ravished, while under attainder, and a pardon afterwards ensued, the party injured might maintain an action, or appeal, as the case might require, for the intermediate injury, Crown Law, 62, 3 s; other authorities of like import might be cited, but these are sufficient to prove, that although a person attainted of felony, may, for some purposes, have been regarded as dead in law, he can not be deemed civilly dead to all intents and purposes. One attainted of felony could not sue in that state, but if pardoned might have his action for injuries suffered whilst under the disability. But the argument, though not to its full extent correct, does not lose its force in the present case, provided, that by his being convicted of the murder charged upon him, Rankin in contemplation of law became incapable of making a will, or in other words; was quo ad the power to make a will, civiliter mortuus. In England, where attainder or conviction of felony, works not only corruption of blood, but also a forfeiture of the lands and goods of the offender, authority is not wanting to prove the incompetency of the attainted or convicted person, to make a will; but upon adverting to those authorities, it will be found, that the incompetency of the attainted or convicted person to do so, results exclusively from the forfeiture, which by the laws of that country follows the attainder, or conviction as an inseperable consequence, and from the incapacity of the person attainted, or convicted, afterwards to hold any estate except for the use and benefit of the king. In England no felon convicted could make a will after judgment, because, by the judgment all his estate was forfeited and his capacity to acquire lost. Thus in Shepherd's Touchstone, page 404, it is said, "a traitor attainted from the time of a treason committed, can make no testament of his lands or goods; for they are all forfeited to the king, but after the time he hath a pardon from the king for his offences, he may make a testament of his lands or goods as another man. A man that is attainted, or convicted of felony, can not make a testament of his lands or goods, for they are forfeited; but if a man be only indicted, and die before attainder, his testament is good for his lands and goods both. And if he be indicted, and will not answer upon his arraignment, but standeth mute, &c. in this case, his lands are not forfeited, and therefore, it seems he may make a testament of them." *3 Where the accused died before conviction, or stood mute, there was no forfeiture, and his testament was valid. The same doctrine is to be found in Swinb. part 11, s. 13, and in Bacon's Ab. title Wills and Testaments, letter B. And Bacon further adds, "that however the wills of traitors, aliens, felons and outlawed persons, are void as to the king or lord, that has right to the lands or goods by forfeiture or otherwise; yet the will is good against the testator himself, and all others, but such persons only." Wills of traitors, aliens, felons and the outlawed, were valid except against the king. If therefore, the reason and doctrine of the law be correctly laid down by these authors, it will be perceived that the validity or invalidity of the will, which was made by Rankin, must depend upon the question, whether or not, by the laws of this country, he forfeited the whole of his estate, upon being convicted of the murder of Blake? If on the conviction, the whole of his estate was forfeited, there remained nothing which he could transmit by will to others, and of course, according to the authorities cited, his will must be held void and inoperative. But if, notwithstanding the conviction, there was not an entire forfeiture of all his estate, according to the same authorities, he was capable of disposing of the interest not forfeited, and as to that interest, be it what it may, his will can have an operation, and must be adjudged valid. Whether the will of the convicted felon in Kentucky be valid or no, depends on whether all his estate be forfeited or not. We will, therefore, turn from the laws of England, and direct our attention to the acts of the Legislature of this State, and see whether any change has been made upon the subject of forfeiture. But before we do so, it may be proper to remark, that except a provision contained in the constitution of Virginia, declaring that the Commonwealth should thereafter be entitled to all forfeitures which prior to the revolution went to the king; that State seems never to have acted upon the subject, until after the separation of this State from that. No statute in Virginia concerning forfeitures. The legislature of this State, for the first time, took up the subject at the session of 1796. The forty-third and forty-fourth sections of that act, (1 Dig. L. K. 413), declares: "Whensoever any person shall happen to be attainted, convicted or outlawed, of any treason, misprison of treason, murder or felony whatever, there shall be in no case a forfeiture to the Commonwealth of dower of lands, or personal estate, but the same shall descend and pass, in like manner as by law directed, in case of persons dying intestate; nor shall any attainder work a corruption of blood, any law or usage to the contrary notwithstanding. Sec. 44, Saving to all and every other person and persons, bodies politic and corporate, their heirs and successors, and to every of them, (other than to such offender as shall be attainted, convicted or outlawed), all such right, title, interest, entry lease, possession, condition, profit, commodity, and hereditaments, as they, or any of them had, or should, or of right ought to have, before, or at the time of said attainder, conviction or outlawry." *4 Act of Kentucky of '96 in relation to forfeitures for crimes. According to any rational interpretation that may be given to this act, we admit, it must be understood, not only to have deprived the Commonwealth of all right by forfeiture to any estate of persons thereafter convicted of treason or felony, but also to have directed whatever right the Commonwealth might have been entitled to in the estate of offenders, under the then existing laws, upon their conviction of felony, to pass and descend immediately upon such conviction, in like manner as by law directed, in case of persons dying intestate. It was the forfeited estate to which, by the existing laws the Commonwealth was entitled upon conviction of the offender, that was the subject of legislative deliberation, and which by the provisions of the act of 1796, was withdrawn from the Commonwealth, and at the same time translated to others, to whom it would pass and descend, in case the offender died intestate. By the laws of forfeiture then in force the Commonwealth upon conviction of the offender became ipso facto, entitled to the estate forfeited, and it was designed by the legislature to translate that same right from the Commonwealth, and vest it in others, in the same manner, and at the same time it would, without the passage of the act, have passed to the Commonwealth. The intention of the legislature to do so, seems obvious from the imperative language, "shall descend and pass," used in the act; and is most clearly evinced by the saving of all rights, &c, to all other persons except the person attainted or convicted. The exception as to the offender in the saving, proves, that it was not intended by the legislature, that he should be benefited by depriving the Commonwealth of her right of forfeiture, and the saving as to the rights of all other persons, &c. proves, that whilst the legislature was renouncing the claim of the Commonwealth to all forfeiture, it was intended to pass that same interest to others, who without the saving, might hold it to the prejudice of the rights of those mentioned in the saving. Act of 1796 transfers all the rights of forfeiture the commonwealth had at that date, immediately to the representatives of the convict, in case of intestacy. But it was not intended by the act to create new forfeitures, or to increase existing penalties, against the persons attainted or convicted. His condition as respects his estate, was not to be bettered, nor was it to be rendered worse; any estate or interest in his lands and goods, which by the then existing laws, he would have been entitled to retain after attainder or conviction, was not intended by the legislature to be disposed of by the act; and if any such interest or estate there be, the attainted or convicted person must, notwithstanding the provisions of the act, be understood still to retain it. No new forfeiture was created by this act of '96. We are therefore, led to enquire whether or not, at the passage of the act, the whole or a part only of the offender's estate was, upon his attainder or conviction of felony, forfeited to the Commonwealth. The answer to this enquiry is found in the twentieth section of the tenth article of the constitution of this State. That section declares, "that no attainder shall work corruption of blood, nor, except during the life of the offender, forfeiture of estate to the Commonwealth." *5 Forfeiture of the estate of persons attainted of crime, is limited by the constitution, in duration to the lifetime of the offender. It was, therefore, not the absolute fee-simple estate of the offender in lands and goods, that according to the constitution, was forfeited to the Commonwealth on attainder, or conviction of felony; but it was the interest or estate, which the offender was entitled to during his life only, that by the laws in force at the passage of the act was forfeited. The reversionary interest, or in other words, that part of the estate which remained after the death of the offender, according to those laws, resided in him after conviction, and since the passage of the act, must, we apprehend, still be understood to continue to reside in the offender, though attainted or convicted. The remainder of the estate or balance of the fee, estate for the felon's life, reafter deducting the mained at his disposal. It results, therefore, that notwithstanding Rankins' conviction of the murder of Blake, he retained a reversionary interest in all the lands and personal estate owned by him at the time of conviction; so that on account of any forfeiture of his estate he can not, according to the authorities cited, be deemed incompetent to dispose of the interest not forfeited, and still possessed by him. Nor is there any thing in the nature, or character of that interest which forbids its being disposed of by will. The constitution, as well as the act of 1796, had both declared that no conviction of felony should work corruption of blood. There was, therefore, nothing either in the sentence of condemnation against Rankin, or in the nature of the interest in reversion held by him, which would have prevented that interest from descending and passing to his legal representatives, provided he had died intestate; and the rule is well settled, that whatever is descendable is also devisable by will. This residue of the estate in convicts property, after deducting this estate for his life, disposed of by the law, is devisable by the last will and testament of the felon, made at any time before his execution.-- It is, therefore, the opinion of a majority of the court, the Chief Justice dissenting, that notwithstanding the conviction of Rankin, he was capable of making a will, and that the county court was correct in admitting it to record. --Therefore, the will is established--Chief Justice Bibb dissenting. The order of that court, must consequently, be affirmed with cost. Triplett, for appellant; Talbot, for appellee. Ky.App. 1828. Rankin's Heirs v. Rankin's Ex'rs 6 T.B.Mon. 531, 22 Ky. 531, 1828 WL 1177 (Ky.), 17 Am.Dec. 161 END OF DOCUMENT
