(Cite as: 3 Bibb 373,  6 Ky. 373 (Ky.),  1814 WL 796 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Pearl v. Edwards. Jul. 8, 1814. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 148 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k148 k. Proceedings for Allowance for Improvements or Taxes. Most Cited Cases An order appointing commissioners, under the occupying claimant law, to ascertain the value of improvements only, is erroneous. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 THIS is an appeal from a judgment of the Nelson Circuit Court, rendered upon the report of commissioners appointed by that Court to value the improvements on lands from which Edwards was evicted in a suit at law brought by Pearl against him. That assignment of errors questions the sufficiency of the order appointing the commissioners. That order evidently does not conform to the requisitions of the occupying claimant law. It is true according to the decision of this Court in the case of Daviess, executor, v. M'Coun, at this term, it is not necessary for the order to refer specially to the law under which the commissioners are to act; but that an order appointing commissioners in general terms, forms an authority for them to act, and the law being directory gives the rules by which they should be governed in making their estimate and report. The correctness of that decision is not denied, and its application to all cases where there exists no repugnance between the order appointing the commissioners and the law, will be readily admitted; but in cases like the present, where the order appoints the commissioners for the special purpose of ascertaining the improvements, the powers of the commissioners being restricted within narrower limits than the law requires, the order cannot authorize a judgment under the occupying claimant law: for as under a general order the commissioners would be authorized and required by the law to make other estimates than that of the improvements, the order confining them to the ascertainment of the improvements is repugnant to the law and is consequently erroneous. In appointing commissioners under the occupying claimant law, it is unnecessary for the order to refer to the law. Order appointing commissioners to ascertain the value of improvements only repugnant to the law. The judgment of the Court below being founded on the erroneous order appointing the commissioners, is therefore erroneous and must be reversed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Pearl v. Edwards 3 Bibb 373, 6 Ky. 373, 1814 WL 796 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
