(Cite as: 3 Bibb 379,  6 Ky. 379 (Ky.),  1814 WL 801 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Delany v. Vaughn. Jul. 11, 1814. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 649 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(A) Judgments Conclusive in General 228k649 k. Nature, Rendition, and Form of Judgment in General.  Most Cited Cases Where plaintiff sold defendant a negro for $350, of which $200 was paid down, and brought an action of assumpsit for the residue, and it was pleaded in defense that fraud was committed in the sale, a general verdict for defendant would establish the fact of fraud, and render the contract void, and would be conclusive in any future suit between the parties. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 DELANY purchased of Vaughn a negro woman, at the price of $350, paid $200 down and promised to pay the residue. To recover the residue Vaughn brought this suit in the Court below. Non-assumpsit was pleaded, and issue joined thereon. On the trial in that Court, Delany urged as a defense to the action the commission of a fraud by Vaughn in the sale of the negro, and produced evidence to establish the charge. Vaughn's counsel in his concluding speech to the jury stated that if they found a verdict for Delany he would hold the negro for the $200 paid, and that he might sue Vaughn for the alleged fraud. The counsel for Delany then moved the Court to instruct the jury that the statements of Vaughn's counsel were not law, but if there was a general verdict found for Delany neither party could thereafter set up or claim the benefit of the contract. The Court overruled the motion and refused to give the instructions asked. Exceptions were taken to the opinion of the Court, and verdict and judgment obtained by Vaughn; from which judgment this appeal has been prosecuted. Assumpsit for part of the price of a negro, defendant pleads general issue and urges as a defense that a fraud was committed in the sale; a general verdict for him will imply a fraud and render the contract void. The only question for decision in this case is, should the Court below have given the instructions to the jury? It is the peculiar province of Courts to decide questions of law, and it has been repeatedly held and should now be considered as incontrovertibly settled, that either party to a cause has a right, any time during the progress of a trial, to the instructions of the Court on points of law relevant to the matter in contest. That the instructions which were asked in this case, but refused by the Court, are not matter of speculation, (as the Court below seems to have supposed) but matter of law and relevant to the matter in contest, we think abundantly evident. The Court were asked to instruct the jury as to the effect of a verdict, if found for Delany. That effect could only be ascertained by the conclusion of law deduced from the verdict, and consequently forms an inquiry peculiarly proper for the decision of the Court. And as the consequences of the verdict might, and in all probability did influence the decision of the jury, either party by motion had a right to the instructions of the Court in relation thereto. As, therefore, the instructions of the Court were asked on a point of law relevant to the matter in contest, we are next led to inquire into the legal effect and consequences of a general verdict in favor of Delany: for if such a verdict would not have the effect stated by Vaughn's counsel in his concluding speech to the jury, then the Court erred in withholding their instructions to that effect. It was competent for Delany on the issue joined to avail himself of any defense by which the contract with Vaughn might be shown to be void: for that purpose he relied on the fraud of Vaughn, and produced evidence to that point. To authorize a verdict in favor of Delany under such a defense, it was indispensable for him to establish a fraud, attendant with such circumstances as would make void the contract. If then a verdict could not regularly be found for Delany, unless the contract by reason of the fraud was proven to be void, it is plain a general verdict in favor of Delany would necessarily imply such a fraud had been committed, and be conclusive in any future contest between the parties that the contract was void. *2 As, therefore, a verdict for Delany could only be given on the supposition of the contract being void, it is clear after such a verdict he could not hold the negro under the contract; and consequently the Court below should so have instructed the jury. We are, therefore of opinion the Court below erred in refusing to give the instructions asked to the jury. Judgment reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for a new trial to be had on the issue joined. Ky.App. 1814. Delany v. Vaughn 3 Bibb 379, 6 Ky. 379, 1814 WL 801 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
