(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 562,  8 Ky. 562 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1082 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Caleb Young v. Phoebe Young. Jun. 7, 1819. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM AN ORDER OF THE GRAYSON COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 799 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(K) Election 409k798 Operation and Effect 409k799 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A widow, renouncing by deed the provision made for her in the will, and claiming her dower, will not be permitted to deny her capacity, when she executed the deed of renunciation, nor will a stranger be permitted to question that fact. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This case involves an inquiry into the propriety of the decision of the county court in appointing commissioners, upon the motion of the appellee, to assign her dower in the lands of which her deceased husband died possessed. Her application was opposed by the appellant, upon the ground of her husband having, by a provision in his last will, devised to her part of his estate--but to remove any objections on that ground, she introduced and proved by two witnesses a deed, sealed and delivered according to law, renouncing all interest under the will. Whereupon the appellant inquired of a witness whether or not the appellee, at the time of executing the deed of renunciation, was of sound mind or capable of any deliberate act; but the court being of opinion that the evidence was incompetent, rejected the inquiry. Whether, therefore, the evidence should have been admitted, is the only question for decision in this case. As the will purports to give to the widow no interest in the lands of her deceased husband, it might be a question whether, under any circumstances, her abiding by the will could bar her right to dower in the lands. But without deciding what would otherwise have been the effect of the will, we have no doubt, but that after renouncing her interest under it, whatever may have been her incapacity, she can not be prevented from asserting her claim of dower. The deed of renunciation, as she would not be permitted to stultify herself, is unquestionably binding upon her, and as she would not be allowed thereafter to assert?? claim to the property given her by the will, upon no principle of propriety or law, should any other be permitted by the introduction of evidence of her incapacity, to defeat her recovery of dower. In no instance is the right of dower barred, by reason of any provision contained in a will, but upon the intendment of its having been received in satisfaction of dower, but as after a renunciation of the provisions of a will by deed binding upon the widow, such an intendment is not to be indulged, it is plain, that the circumstance of a provision having been made by the will can not, in such a case, preclude the widow from asserting her claim to dower. A widow renouncing by deed the provision made for her in the will and claiming her dower, will be permitted to deny her capacity, when she executed the deed of renunciation, nor will a stranger be permitted to question that fact. *2 We are of opinion, therefore, that as the evidence was not calculated to shew the deed not to be binding upon the appellee, it was properly rejected by the county court. With respect to the other error assigned, as it is predicated upon a misconception of the facts in the record, it need not be specially noticed. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Bibb, for appellant; Pope, contra. Ky.App. 1819. Young v. Young 1 A.K.Marsh. 562, 8 Ky. 562, 1819 WL 1082 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
