(Cite as: 3 Bibb 486,  6 Ky. 486 (Ky.),  1814 WL 839 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lawless v. Reese. Oct. 24, 1814. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 426 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k422 Errors and Irregularities 228k426 k. Irregularities in Proceedings. Most Cited  Cases A. brought a bill to set aside a judgment;  it appearing that, after the jury had retired to consider of the verdict, the sheriff had advised with them as to the case and read to them a decision of court which was not put in evidence. Perpetual injunction was decreed, unless B. would consent to a new trial, upon the plaintiff's paying the costs of the former trial. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. *1 REESE brought an action of trespass against Lawless, and obtained a verdict and judgment for 90 dollars damages and costs. After the adjournment of the Court at which the judgment was obtained, Lawless exhibited his bill in equity, alleging that since the rising of the Court he had discovered the deputy sheriff, after the jury withdrew from the bar to consider of their verdict, and without the approbation or knowledge of the Court, counseled, advised and in other respects improperly exercised his influence with the jury to find a verdict for Reese; and prayed and obtained an injunction against the judgment at law, and asked a new trial of the issue in the action at law. A new trial in an action at law granted (upon bill filed) because the sheriff had without the approbation of the Court counseled with the jury as to the right of the parties, after they retired from the bar, and read to them a paper which was not used on the trial, which was unknown to the complainant until after the term at which the judgment was rendered. Reese answered the bill, admitting nothing, and denied the material allegations in the bill. On a final hearing the Court below dismissed Lawless' bill with costs and damages; from which decree he has appealed to this Court. The action at law appears to have been brought by Reese for a trespass committed by Lawless upon a ferry boat, and the evidence in this cause clearly shows that after the jury withdrew from the bar a conversation took place between some of them and the deputy sheriff, in which the sheriff observed to the jury one-half of the ferry was Reese's; and at the request of the jury the sheriff brought and read to them the decision of this Court. That both the sheriff and jury were guilty of a gross violation of duty, there can be no doubt; but whether that misconduct should subject them only to the just animadversion of the Court before whom the trial was had, or likewise furnish a just cause for a new trial, is the main question. It is admitted that every possible misconduct of jurors, after they retire from the bar, does not per se furnish sufficient cause for setting aside their verdict. Thus if the jury should happen to eat or drink at their own expense, without the permission of the Court or misdemean themselves in any other wise under circumstances not tending to influence their verdict, although they might thereby subject themselves to punishment, their verdict should not for that cause be set aside. But it is not only due to every litigant, but necessary to an impartial administration of justice, that verdicts should not stand, where the misconduct of the jury relates to a a subject obviously tending to influence their minds on the matter in contest. Thus if any of the jurors should be found in conference with the party in whose favor their verdict might be found, or ate and drank at his expense, it cannot be doubted but for that cause a new trial should be awarded. And so we apprehend in this case, where the sheriff has been guilty of an express violation of his duty, as well in coversing with the jury as in handing and reading to them a paper which from aught that appears may not have been used as evidence on the trial; and as the jury likewise participated in that misconduct, under circumstances which may and probably did influence their opinions, the verdict should not be permitted to stand. *2 It is true had this misconduct been known to Lawless before the adjournment of the Court at the term the verdict was obtained, he should have then applied for a new trial; and his failure to do so would not have authorized him afterward to apply to a Court of Equity. But as the fact of after discovery rests within his own knowledge, and is not susceptible of other proof, and as he has expressly alleged upon oath such a discovery, in the absence of all opposing circumstances that allegation must be considered as true, and consequently received as furnishing a proper case for the interposition of a Court of Chancery. The Court below erred therefore in dismissing Lawless' bill. The decree must consequently be reversed with costs, the cause remanded and the injunction made perpetual, unless Reese will consent to a new trial at law upon Lawless' paying the costs of the former trial. Ky.App. 1814. Lawless v. Reese 3 Bibb 486, 6 Ky. 486, 1814 WL 839 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
