(Cite as: 4 Bibb 190,  7 Ky. 190 (Ky.),  1815 WL 716 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Todd v. Neaff. Oct. 7, 1815. *1 A summons defective when served, but served in due time, to which the defendant appears without objecting in the Court below, cannot be a cause for reversing a judgment because the service was not in due time to warrant a judgment at first term. A plea to the jurisdiction offered after the day to which the cause was set for trial, was properly rejected by the Court. West Headnotes Appearance 31 k 24(5) 31 Appearance 31k21 Waiver of Objections 31k24 Defects in Process or Service 31k24(5) k. Defects in Service in General. Most Cited  Cases A general appearance in person or by attorney or a plea to the merits is a waiver of defects in the service of process. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. THIS writ of error is brought to reverse a judgment obtained by Neaff, in an action by petition and summons brought by him against Todd in the Court below. It is assigned for error that the Court erred in permitting Neaff to amend his summons, which issued upon the petition in that Court. The correctness of that amendment, need not now be inquired into: for as Todd appears by the record to have appeared to the action, it cannot be material whether the summons was or was not amendable. It is also assigned for error, that the Court erred in trying the cause at the first term after the suing out of the summons. The summons which issued appears to have been served more than ten days before the day of appearance; but the objection to the right of trial at that term is taken upon the supposition that the summons was fatally defective at the time of service. The objection would certainly have been entitled to weight, had it been taken in the Court below; but as the defendant in that Court appears by the record to have been in Court, he may have yielded his assent to a disposition of the cause at that term, and as the record presents no objections on the part of Todd to the Court then disposing of the cause, the conclusion is that Court acted correctly in proceeding to trial. It is also assigned for error, that the Court erred in rejecting the plea offered by Todd. The plea appears to have been offered several days after the day to which the cause was docketed for trial; and as it is a plea to the jurisdiction of the Court, according to the act of 1809, regulating proceedings in suits at law and in chancery, it was properly rejected. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Todd v. Neaff 4 Bibb 190, 7 Ky. 190, 1815 WL 716 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
