(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 423,  8 Ky. 423 (Ky.),  1819 WL 1011 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Graham v. Hack with. Apr. 7, 1819. *1 AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE FLOYD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Lost Instruments 246 k 17 246 Lost Instruments 246k13 Actions on Lost Instruments 246k17 k. Affidavit of loss. Most Cited Cases An affidavit of the loss of the instrument sued on should be filed with the pleadings. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 74 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak74 k. Making and requisites of deposition, return  or certificate. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 122k69  Depositions) A deposition certified by justices to have been taken by them need not be signed by the witness. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 81 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak81 k. Defects and objections. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k110  Depositions) An exception that a deposition was not taken according to law is too general to be noticed. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Dawson, under a conveyance from Graham, having recovered judgment in ejectment for the land upon which Hackwith resides; Hackwith exhibited his bill in equity against Graham, for the purpose of recovering compensation upon an obligation which he charges that Graham gave to him for the land before he conveyed the same to Dawson, but which obligation he alleges to have been casually burnt. A vendor selling land to which he has no title either in law or equity; if he acquires a title afterwards, he should convey to the vendee. Graham denies having sold the land to Hackwith, and in every material respect throws him upon the proof of his demand. If such vendor, after he acquires title, conveys the land to another, he is answerable to the first vendee for the value of the land at the date of the conveyance. Vide  2 Bibb, 543, Gerault v. Anderson;  Hard. 41, M'Connell's heirs v. Dunlap's devisees, and ante, Rutledge v. Lawrence. Upon the trial in the court below, that court supposing Hackwith to be entitled to relief, pronounced an interlocutory decree, directing a jury to be called to ascertain the value of the land at the time Graham conveyed to Dawson, but Graham being dissatisfied with that decree, by consent of the parties an appeal was granted to this court. Although there exists some contrariety of evidence in relation to the nature of the writing which was given by Graham to Hackwith for the land, we are satisfied that Graham did actually sell the land to Hackwith, and notwithstanding Graham is not proven to have had, at that time, either an equitable or legal title to the land, yet as he is shewn to have set up a claim to the title of Preston, which he appears to have thereafter acquired and conveyed to Dawson, he ought to be compelled to compensate Hackwith in damages for the injury which he has sustained by his not obtaining a title under his purchase. In a suit in chancery, praying relief for a lost writing, though strictly, the party should make affidavit of the loss, yet if the proof of the loss is clear, the affidavit of the loss may be dispensed with. *2 And in estimating those damages, no objection is perceived to the rule adopted by the court below; for as Graham ought not, after having sold the land to Hackwith, to have conveyed it to Dawson, he should be compelled to compensate Hackwith according to the value when the wrong was committed by his conveyance to Dawson. Exceptions to the reading depositions should be special--that they are taken ""contrary to law" is too general to be noticed, nor need the depositions be signed by the witnesses--Vide post, Moblay v. Hamit, acc. Nor can the failure of Hackwith to make affidavit to the loss of the writing upon Graham, prevent him from obtaining relief upon the final hearing of the cause. For although regularly, such an affidavit ought, in a proceeding like the present, to be filed, yet we apprehend, that as the destruction of the writing is sufficiently proven by other evidence, it was proper for the court below, in the absence of Hackwith's affidavit, to make the decree in his favor. And with respect to the exceptions taken to the depositions by the counsel of Graham, we are of opinion they were properly disregarded by the court. The broad objection of their having been taken contrary to law, is certainly too general to merit the notice of the court, and the specific objection of their not having been signed by the witnesses, as they are certified by the justices to have been taken by them, was properly overruled. The decree must therefore be affirmed with cost. Bibb for appellant, Wickliffe for appellee. Ky.App. 1819. Graham v. Hackwith 1 A.K.Marsh. 423, 8 Ky. 423, 1819 WL 1011 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
