(Cite as: 2 Bibb 129,  5 Ky. 129 (Ky.),  1810 WL 669 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Coleman et ux. v. Talbot, etc. Spring Term, 1810. *1 To recover in ejectment the pl'tiff must show his legal title to be the elder. If two grants bear the same date, neither can prevail against the other for pl't?? in ejectment. In such case, the condition of the defendant is the better. The priority of recording the grants is not evidence of priority of title. The defendant in ejectment may defeat the action by proving a subsisting title out of the plaintiff, although not in himself. Where the grants bear even date, it is sufficient if the defendants show that their possession is consistent with one of the grants, and by consent of the patentee, without deriving a legal title to themselves. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(7) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(7) k. Conflicting Entries, Claims, or Patents. Most  Cited Cases The priority of recording a grant in the land register is not evidence of priority of title. Ejectment 142 k 12 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k8 Title to Support Action 142k12 k. Paper Title. Most Cited Cases Where the titles of plaintiff and defendant bear the same date, plaintiff cannot recover. Ejectment 142 k 25(2) 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k22 Defenses 142k25 Title or Right of Possession of Third  Person 142k25(2) k. Right to Show Outstanding Title. Most Cited  Cases When defendant in ejectment is in possession under color of title or right, he can avail himself of an outstanding title as a defense. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge CLARKE absent. THIS is an appeal by the plaintiffs in an action of ejectment from a judgment in favor of the defendants. The parties claim under distinct grants from the Commonwealth, bearing date on the same day; but the one from which the plaintiffs derive title stands recorded on the register's books prior to that under which the defendants claim. This circumstance is insisted on by the plaintiffs as giving them a superiority of title. The case of Talbot v. Calloway, Hard. 36, has settled this point. It is in that case decided that it is necessary, in order to support an ejectment, that the plaintiff's grant should be of elder date than that of the defendant. That decision we conceive to be correct in principle. The law did not require that grants from the Commonwealth should be recorded by the register in regular succession according to the priority of their dates, and it is known that in practice the priority of dates was disregarded in admitting them to record. The circumstance, therefore, that the grant from which the plaintiffs derive title stands upon the register's books prior to the one under which the defendants claim, furnishes no presumption that it was anteriorly signed by the governor, and sealed with the seal of the Commonwealth, which is the consummation of the title. As then the patents were of equal date, and no circumstance was shown from which it could be inferred that the one ought to be preferred to the other, the defendants, according to the maxim melior est conditio possidentis, ought to prevail. *2 But several objections were taken in the Court below, and are now insisted on in this Court, to the evidence on the part of the defendants, in the deduction of their title from the original patentee. These objections, so far as they merit the attention of the Court, seem to be predicated upon the idea that it was necessary the defendants should show that the legal title was regularly conveyed to them, before they could avail themselves of the protection of the patent under which they claim. This idea is certainly incorrect. In England it is a general rule, that it is sufficient for the defendant in ejectment to prove a subsisting title out of the plaintiff, although he can show no title in himself; because the plaintiff must succeed upon the strength of his own title, and not upon the weakness of his adversary's. How far this doctrine ought to be applied to adverse titles having distinct origins need not in this case be determined. The evidence produced on the part of the defendants was clearly competent for the purpose of showing that their possession was not tortious, but legal, and with the consent of the patentee, under whose right they claim protection. Without, therefore, deciding whether the evidence was sufficient to establish in them a complete legal title, we have no hesitation in saying that they have proven such a right under the patent as authorizes them to avail themselves of its protection against an adverse grant. The objections therefore to the admission of the evidence were correctly overruled by the Court below. Judgment affirmed, etc. Ky.App. 1810. Coleman v. Talbot 2 Bibb 129, 5 Ky. 129, 1810 WL 669 (Ky.), 4 Am.Dec. 687 END OF DOCUMENT
