(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 42,  17 Ky. 42 (Ky.),  1824 WL 2284 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ward v. Halbert. Oct. 8, 1824. *1 Assignor and Assignee of Judgments, Parties. APPEAL FROM THE GREENUP CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Parks having obtained against Halbert a judgment for damages and costs, in the Greenup circuit court, the parties afterwards came into court, and by consent, had an entry made on the record, of a satisfaction of the judgment, except ten dollars. At a subsequent term of the court, Ward, claiming the benefit of the judgment, in virtue of an endorsment directed to be made on the execution by Parks, moved the court to vacate the entry of satisfaction. To this motion Halbert appeared, but Parks did not appear; nor was there any notice given to him of the motion. The court overruled the motion, and Ward has appealed to this court. Can the assignee of a judgment have a subsequent entry on record, of satisfaction made by consent of the debtor and assignee, set aside, on motion, at a subsequent term, without proof of express notice of the assignment to the debtor, and that it was for valuable consideration? Quaere. To a motion for this purpose, the assignor is a necessary party, and must have notice. We should have great hesitation in saying that Ward would be entitled to a vacation of the entry of satisfaction, merely in virtue of the order made by Parks, to endorse the execution for Ward's benfit, without proof of express notice to Halbert of the order, and that it was made for a valuable consideration paid by Ward. But it is unnecessary to decide on these points; for Parks was undoubtedly a necessary party to the motion, and not having been made a party by notice or appearance, the decision of the circuit court overruling the motion, was, on that ground, correct. The judgment of the circuit court must be affirmed with costs. Triplett, for appellant. Ky.App. 1824. Ward v. Halbert 1 T.B.Mon. 42, 17 Ky. 42, 1824 WL 2284 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
