(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 83,  19 Ky. 83 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1202 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jones v. Murray, &c. Nov. 21, 1825. *1 Warranty. Vendor and Vendee. Provisions. Evidence. Onus Probandi. Jurisdiction. Set-off. ERROR TO THE BRECKENRIDGE CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 181(1) 343 Sales 343IV Performance of Contract 343IV(C) Delivery and Acceptance of Goods 343k181 Evidence 343k181(1) k. Presumptions and Burden of Proof. Most  Cited Cases Where vendees agreed to pay for an estimated quantity of merchandise, and undertook to weigh and keep an account of it, any uncertainty in the proof of the deficiency must be taken most strongly against them. Sales 343 k 266 343 Sales 343VI Warranties 343k265 Implied Warranty of Quality, Fitness, or Condition 343k266 k. In General. Most Cited Cases On a sale of provisions by the quantity, as merchandise, there is no implied warranty that the whole is sound. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 8(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352I Nature and Grounds of Remedy 352k4 Grounds and Scope of Remedy 352k8 Equitable Set-Off 352k8(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where the demands arise out of the same transaction and are founded on contract, a court of equity will set off one demand against the other, where the demands are liquidated. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 33(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k30 Causes of Action on Other and Distinct Contracts or Transactions 352k33 Set-Off 352k33(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where the demands are wholly unconnected a court of equity will not interpose to set off one against the other, unless there be some extrinsic reason for so doing, as the insolvency of one of the parties or the like. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 35(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k35 Demands Not Liquidated 352k35(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where the demands are founded on tort, and sound in damages which are unliquidated, a court of equity will not interpose to set off one against the other, unless there be some extrinsic reason for so doing, as the insolvency of one of the parties or the like. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. The contract of sale. At Natchez, on the 22d of March, 1818, William Boone, D. R. & J. Murray purchased of H. C. Jones a cargo of pork and bacon, at the price of six cents per pound, the boat in which it was, together with the cooking utensils being given in. The cargo was estimated at 37,000 pounds, but it was agreed that Boone and the Murrays should have the pork and bacon weighed as sold, of which they were to keep an account, and if the quantity turned out to be less than 37,000 pounds, Jones was to pay back to them at the same rate for the deficiency, and if the quantity should be greater, they were to pay him for the surplus at the same rate; and a written agreement to this effect was executed by the parties. Boone and the Murrays immediately paid to Jones the price for the estimated quantity of 37,000 pounds, except 720 dollars, for which a bill of exchange was drawn by J. Murray upon D. R. Murray, and accepted by him. On this bill 400 dollars were paid, but the residue being unpaid, Jones brought suit at law, and recovered judgment therefor against the Murrays, they having made no defence. *2 Judgment at law against the Murrays. They then filed their bill in chancery, in which, after stating the above facts, they allege, in substance, that on the pork and bacon being weighed, agreeably to the contract between the parties, there were only 26,818 pounds making a deficiency of 10,182 pounds, amounting to 610 dollars 92 cents, at the price at which they purchased; and they charge that the pork and bacon, at the time of the sale to them, was spoiled and injured to the amount of one-half of the cargo. They make Boone and Jones defendants, and pray for an injunction against the judgment at law, and a decree, for such further sum as may be due them, against Jones. Bill in Equity. Boone in his answer admits the material allegations of the bill; confesses that he has not paid to the complainant his proportion of the deficiency in the quantity of the pork and bacon, and alleges that he had retained it under an impression that they could not be compelled to pay therefor. Boone's answer. Jones in his answer admits the sale by him of the cargo of pork and bacon at the estimated quantity of 37,000 pounds; and that when weighed he was to be paid for the surplus if any, but denies that he was to make any deduction for a deficiency of quantity, and alleges the written contract to that effect was drawn either by mistake or fraud. He denies that the cargo of pork and bacon was spoiled at the time of the sale, or if it was, that he knew it to be so, and alleges that Boone and the Murrays saw and examined the cargo for themselves, and purchased it upon their own judgment without warranty of its soundness. Jones' Answer. The circuit court decreed the judgment at law to be perpetually enjoined; and that Jones should pay to the complainants the sum of 290 dollars, 82 cents, with interest from the date of the contract, that being the amount of the deficiency, as supposed by that court, in the estimated quantity sold by Jones to Boone and the complainants. To that decree Jones has prosecuted this writ of error. There is no pretence for the assertion made by Jones in his answer, that he was not to be accountable for the deficiency in the estimated quantity of the cargo sold by him. The written contract is explicit upon this point, and the parol evidence, so far from contravening the written contract in this respect, fortifies and confirms it, and shows that it was drawn in strict conformity to the true intention of the parties. Decree of the circuit court. But the deficiency for which he ought to account is not, we apprehend, as great as the circuit court assumed it to be. It is true that the witness, who sold out the cargo for the complainants, and kept an account of the weight of the parcels he sold, states the amount of that which he sold to be only 26,818 pounds, making the deficiency in the estimated quantity of the cargo sold by Jones to the complainants and Boone exactly what it was assumed to be by the circuit court; but the same witness states that there was from 1,700 to 2,000 pounds which was not sold nor weighed, because it was so spoiled as to be unfit for market. Adding this to the quantity sold by the witness, the deficiency in the estimated amount of the cargo sold by Jones, will be thereby reduced so much; and whether it ought to be so added or not, depends upon the question, whether Jones is responsible for the quality of the cargo. Some of the cargo is conceded by the complainants to have been sound and of good quality at the time of their purchase, and whether that part of it which was afterwards discovered to be spoiled, was so at the time of the purchase, is a matter of some doubt; but assuming it to be spoiled at that time, we should nevertheless be of opinion, that Jones was not responsible for its quality. *3 The guarantee of the quantity of a cargo does not imply a warranty that the whole is sound; and so all may be taken into the account. The evidence does not justify a conclusion, that he either undertook to warrant the quality of the cargo, or that he practised a deceit in selling it as sound and merchantable, when he knew it to be otherwise. In fact, there is no allegation in the bill to that effect. And the law is, that if, on a sale there be neither a warranty nor deceit, the purchaser takes the thing at his peril. This is recognized as the rule of the common law, by a long series of decisions in the English courts, from the most ancient to the most modern, and it has been sanctioned by the repeated adjudications of the court. "If, on a sale there be neither warranty nor deceit, the purchaser takes the thing at his peril." Blackstone indeed says, that "in contracts for provisions, it is always implied that they are wholesome." Black. Com. 166. This may be true where provisions are sold for consumption, and any prejudice ensues; but the law is otherwise where they are sold to merchandize. This distinction is taken in the note to Fitzherbert's Natura Brevium, 84, the only authority to which Blackstone refers. "Note (says the writer) a diversity between selling corrupt wines to merchandize, for there an action on the case does not lie without warranty; otherwise, if it be for a tavern or victualler, if it prejudice any," and for this the year book of the 19th Henry 6, is cited. In this case, the complainants were not tavern keepers, or victuallers, but merchants, and they purchased not for consumption, but for merchandize. There was, therefore, no implied warranty on the part of Jones; and having made no express warranty, and practised no deceit in the sale, he is not responsible for the quality of the cargo sold by him. The rule that in sales of provisions there is always an implied warranty that they are wholesome, only applies to sales for consumption where a prejudice ensues not to sales by the quantity to merchandize. It results, consequently, that the part of the cargo which was spoiled should be added to the part which was sold by the complainants. There is an uncertainty in the estimate made by the witness of the amount of the spoiled part of the cargo. The maximum of his estimate ought to be taken, namely 2,000 lbs. not only because the complainants had undertaken to have it weighed and keep an account of it, and had failed to do so, but because, as they contracted to pay for an estimated quantity, they can only discharge themselves by showing the deficiency, and uncertainty or ambiguity in the proof of the deficiency, must be construed most strongly against them. Adding 2,000 lbs. for the spoiled part of the cargo, to the amount which was sold by the complainants, will make the quantity of 28,818 lbs.; and leave a deficiency of only 8,182 lbs. in the estimated quantity of the cargo, which, at six cents per pound, amounts to $480 92, and, of course, after deducting the sum remaining due on the bill of exchange, for which the judgment was recovered, there would remain a balance of only $160 92 due to the complainants, instead of the sum decreed by the circuit court. *4 Where vendor agreed to account for what the cargo might lack of the estimated quantity on its being weighed out by purchaser, any uncertainty in the purchaser's account and evidence of the deficiency must be computed against him. But it is contended, on the part of Jones, that the remedy of the complainants was at law, and not in equity, and that they are therefore entitled to no relief in this case. In what way the complainants could have had, or may still have their remedy at law, is not suggested, and we confess we are unable to perceive any, which, in our opinion, ought to exclude them from the aid of a court of equity. They might, perhaps, have defeated the remedy at law upon the bill of exchange, on the score of a failure of the consideration; but that would not have been an adequate remedy, for they had already paid above the price of the actual quantity of the cargo of pork and bacon, more than the amount which remained due upon the bill, and for the balance they must have resorted to some other mode of redress, or have submitted to the loss of it. Their failure, therefore, to avail themselves of a remedy, thus partial, instead of excluding them from the aid of a court of equity, ought rather be considered as a reason for the interposition of that court, as well because the whole controversy may be thereby adjusted in one suit, as because the remedy afforded is more adequate to the demands of justice. If, however, they had even paid the amount of the judgment upon the bill, they might, perhaps, in an action at law upon the written agreement for the purchase of the cargo, have recovered back the amount of the judgment, as well as the whole they had once paid for the cargo. But even admitting their right to do so, we cannot think they ought, on that ground, to be excluded from the aid of a court of equity. Where, by an over estimate of the quantity of a cargo, purchaser overpays under agreement that overplus or balance would be refunded or paid, and on a bill given in part, a judgment for a further sum is recovered, he may have his bill for injunction, and to recover the overplus; on the principle of set-off and doing complete justice in one suit. Where there are mutual demands, a court of equity, though each of the parties might have a remedy at law, will often interpose to compel them to set off the one demand against the other. It is not, indeed, in every case that this will be done. Where the demands are wholly unconnected, or where they are, or either of them is, founded upon tort, and sound in damages, which being indeterminate in their nature, can, upon the principles of our law, only be liquidated and ascertained by the verdict of a jury, a court of equity will not interpose to set off one against the other, unless there be some extrinsic reason for doing so, as the insolvency of one of the parties, or the like. But where the demands, as in this case arise, out of the same transaction, and are intimately connected, and are founded, not upon tort, but upon contract, and the demands are determinate and certain, it is the invariable practice of a court of equity to set off one demand against the other, and consider the balance as the debt really due. *5 Set-off in equity___the rules stated. See 1 Monroe, the title in the index passim. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that a decree may be entered according to this opinion. Crittenden, for plaintiff; Haggin, for defendants. Ky.App. 1825. Jones v. Murray 3 T.B.Mon. 83, 19 Ky. 83, 1825 WL 1202 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
