(Cite as: 1 Bibb 412,  4 Ky. 412 (Ky.),  1809 WL 756 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rochester v. Dun. Jun. 2, 1809. *1 To obtain leave to withdraw the general issue, the defendant should show that such leave would conduce to the ends of justice. After not guilty, and son assault demesne, the withdrawal of the plea of not guilty, could not conduce to the justice of the case. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 339 302 Pleading 302XIV Withdrawal 302k339 k. In General. Most Cited Cases The defendant must show that leave would conduce to the ends of justice, in order to obtain leave to withdraw the general issue. Assault and Battery 37 k 24(2) 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(B) Actions 37k24 Pleading 37k24(2) k. Plea or Answer and Replication. Most Cited  Cases After a plea of not guilty, and a plea of son assault demesne, and issue taken thereon, the withdrawal of the plea of not guilty could not conduce to the justice of the case. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. THIS was an action of trespass, assault and battery. At the rules in the clerk's office next after the filing of the declaration the general issue of not guilty was pleaded on the part of the defendant (who is now appellant), and at the Court following, the plea of son assault demesne was added, and issue being taken thereon, the cause was continued. When the cause was called for trial at the succeeding term, the defendant moved the Court for leave to withdraw the plea of not guilty. "It appearing to the Court (as is alleged by the bill of exceptions filed herein), that the said plea was put in on the rules by the clerk, without any direction from the defendant or his counsel to put in said plea, but under a general direction from the attorneys of the Court to put in the general issue, where an attorney was marked for the defendant." The motion was opposed by the plaintiff in the action below and overruled by the Court, to which opinion of the Court the defendant excepted. The propriety of this opinion, is the only question made by the errors assigned. Whether the general direction to the clerk by the attorneys of the Court, to put in at the rules in the office the general issue where an attorney was marked for the defendant, gave to the clerk in this case an authority to file the plea of not guilty need not be decided; because by filing in Court an additional plea, and continuing the cause without attempting to withdraw or disown in any shape the plea of not guilty, the defendant adopted it as his own, and ought not afterward to be permitted to disclaim it. Considering the plea then a legitimate one, put in by the proper authority of the defendant, the question occurs whether he had a right to withdraw it. To demonstrate the existence of such a right, it should be shown that the exercise of it would be conducive to the ends of justice; but in what manner the withdrawal of the plea of not guilty would have conduced to the ends of justice, it is difficult to conceive. The situation of the cause as it is stated was the most favorable to a complete investigation of its merits. *2 The general issue imposed upon the defendant the burden of proving his declaration, while the plea of son assault demesne authorized the defendant to avail himself of any proof he could produce in justification. The only benefit that could have possibly resulted to the defendant from the withdrawal of the general issue, was the privilege of opening and concluding the cause. But it should be recollected that there was two parties to the suit, and that if the privilege of opening and concluding the cause was beneficial to the one, it was equally so to the other. The defendant having placed the cause in an attitude which gave this privilege to the plaintiff, he ought not to be permitted to deprive the plaintiff of it, for the mere purpose of resuming it himself. Upon what ground does the defendant claim the right to withdraw the general issue? Because the withdrawal of it would give him the privilege of opening and concluding the cause. And upon what ground is it that the defendant objects to the withdrawal? Because he has the privilege of opening and concluding, of which the withdrawal would deprive him. The law acknowledging no preference or partiality for either of the parties, and their claim to the privilege in question being equal, no satisfactory reason can be assigned why the situation of the cause should be changed for the mere purpose of depriving the one of it, and giving it to the other. The Court therefore can see no error in the opinion of the inferior Court in overruling the defendant's motion to withdraw the plea of not guilty. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1809. Rochester v. Dun 1 Bibb 412, 4 Ky. 412, 1809 WL 756 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
