(Cite as: 4 Bibb 222,  7 Ky. 222 (Ky.),  1815 WL 733 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Smith, etc. v. Hancock. Nov. 2, 1815. *1 Trespass vi et armis by the owner against one for beating a slave, is the proper action, and not case. Possession is necessary to maintain the action; but an allegation that the slave was the property of the plaintiff is prima facie sufficient without an express allegation of possession. That a slave was at an unlawful assembly conspiring to rebel and would not surrender, but assailed the defendant, whereupon the defendant struck him in his own defense, whereof he died, is a good justification in trespass. In trespass vi et armis a justification must be pleaded, and cannot be given in evidence on the general issue. That one special plea was rejected, is no cause for rejecting another when the defendant has not slipped the time for pleading. West Headnotes Slaves 356 k 5 356 Slaves 356k4 Property in Slaves 356k5 k. Rights and Powers of Owners. Most Cited Cases In an action of trespass for beating a slave, whereby he afterwards died, it is a good justification that the slave was at an unlawful assembly, conspiring to rebel, and would not surrender, but assailed defendant, whereupon defendant struck him in his own defense, whereof he died. Trespass 386 k 40(2) 386 Trespass 386II Actions 386II(B) Proceedings in General 386k40 Declaration, Complaint, or Petition 386k40(2) k. Allegations of Title and Possession. Most  Cited Cases In trespass for killing cattle, declaring that they were "his" cattle is a sufficient assertion of property in the plaintiff. Assault and Battery 37 k 24(2) 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(B) Actions 37k24 Pleading 37k24(2) k. Plea or Answer and Replication. Most Cited  Cases In trespass for beating a slave, a justification must be pleaded specially. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of trespass vi et armis, brought by Hancock against Smith and Harris, for beating and wounding a negro slave, the property of the plaintiff, whereby he afterward died. The defendants pleaded severally not guilty, upon which issues were joined, and the defendant Harris offered an additional plea, in which he alleged in substance that the slave in the declaration mentioned was on the night of the day on which the trespass is supposed to have been committed, at an unlawful assembly of negroes at the house of John Smith, and that the said defendant went with Smith to disperse said negroes, who were combining to rise and rebel against the free white citizens of this Commonwealth, when the said negro in the declaration mentioned refused to surrender; and the defendant being at the window of the kitchen of Smith, with a pitchfork in his hand, said negro struck at him with a club, and would have beat and wounded him if he had not defended himself; when he in his own defense struck the negro with the pitchfork, as he had a right to do: which is the same trespass in the declaration complained of, etc. *2 The plaintiff by his counsel objected to filing this plea, and the Court sustained the objection: to which opinion of the Court the defendant Harris excepted. The cause was then tried upon the issues joined, and a verdict found for the plaintiff; and a judgment being given thereon against the defendants, they have appealed to this Court. The errors assigned are--1. That the action should have been case, and not trespass; 2. That the declaration is defective in not alleging the slave to have been in the possession of the plaintiff at the time the injury complained of was done; and 3. That the Court erred in rejecting the special plea offered by the defendant Harris. 1. The first point is clearly untenable. The act complained of was accompanied with force, and the damages resulting from it to the plaintiff were immediate, not consequential. In such a case, trespass, and not case, is the proper form of action. 2. The second point is certainly not less untenable. The declaration alleges the slave to be the property of the plaintiff; and whether a slave is in this respect to be treated as real or personal estate, the allegation is sufficient, without alleging possession, as all the precedents of declarations to be found in the books of forms abundantly show. Possession is no doubt necessary to enable the plaintiff to maintain the action, as was decided in the case of  Belmore v. Caldwell, 2 Bibb 76. But an averment that he belonged to the plaintiff, prima facie, implies a possession, and is therefore sufficient. 3. The third point made by the assignment of error is entitled to more weight. As the plea purports to be an answer to the whole declaration, there is no doubt that to be good it must contain matter sufficient not only to justify the battery, but the wounding, whereby the death of the slave ensued. But such a wounding may unquestionably, under particular circumstances, be justified; and we apprehend the circumstances alleged in the plea, are sufficient for that purpose. It is held that where a felony has been committed, that the offender may be seized or arrested, not only by an officer, but any private citizen, either with or without a warrant from a magistrate for that purpose; and if he will not suffer himself to be arrested, but stands on his own defense, he may be lawfully slain.--1 Hawk. P. C. 106. Nor is the person in pursuit in such a case bound to give back, but may stand his ground and attack the culprit.--Same 107. If, as the plea asserts, the slave in this case was one of an unlawful assembly of negroes combining to rebel, he was guilty of felony, for which he was liable to be punished by death.--See  4 Littell 223. The act of as sembly indeed makes the crime consist in conspiring to rebel or make insurrection; and in a criminal prosecution it would perhaps be necessary to charge the offense in the words of the law. But in pleadings in a civil case less strictness is necessary. In such a case it is sufficient that the matter pleaded is substantially alleged; and as the averment that the slaves were combining to rebel, necessarily implies that they were conspiring to do so, it is sufficient in substance. *3 The defendant, therefore, might, according to the doctrine just referred to, not only disperse such an unlawful assembly, and seize the individuals composing it, but if they refused to surrender and resisted by force, as is alleged to be the case with respect to the slave in question, he might lawfully slay such offenders. The plea, therefore, contains substantially the requisites to show that the defendant was justifiable. But it was contended that the plea ought not to have been received, because the defendant had before pleaded the general issue, on the trial of which he might give the special matter alleged in the plea in evidence. This argument is certainly incorrect. In actions upon the case, as the plaintiff can recover only according to his right under all the circumstances of the case, the defendant may upon the general issue give in evidence whatever tends to show he has no right of recovery. But in actions of trespass, as the act is prima facie unlawful, whatever tends to show that it was justifiable, must be specially pleaded, and cannot be admitted in evidence on the general issue. It was also objected that the plea ought not to have been received, because the defendant had tendered another special plea, which was rejected on the ground of its insufficiency. But this objection is certainly not entitled to any weight. It does not appear from the record that the cause had passed the stage at which the defendant had a right to plead; and while he has a right to plead, the law allows him to file as many several pleas as he may think necessary for his defense; and most assuredly the rejection of one plea, because it was insufficient, can be no good reason for rejecting another which is sufficient. Judgment reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings to be had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Smith v. Hancock 4 Bibb 222, 7 Ky. 222, 1815 WL 733 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
