(Cite as: 7 Ky. 311,  1816 WL 1613 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. First v. Miller. Apr. 18, 1816. *1 Money collected by a sheriff upon an execution in favor of A, is not his property until paid over by the sheriff. And the sheriff cannot levy it in his own hands as the property of A. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is a writ of error to a judgment overruling a motion made by the plaintiff in error against the defendant, for a judgment for money collected by him as deputy sheriff of Hardin county, on a fieri facias issued in the plaintiff's name. It appears from a bill of exceptions taken by the plaintiff to the opinion of the Court below, that the defendant had taken the money collected by him on the fieri facias and paid it away in discharge of a militia fine which he had in his hands against the plaintiff; and the only question the case presents is, whether he had a right to do so or not? That a fieri facias may be levied upon money belonging to the defendant in the execution, seems to be well settled in England, and the same doctrine has been recognized by the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of  Turner v. Fendall, 1 Cranch 117. By a parity of reason, we apprehend the sheriff might, under the laws of this State, levy a militia fine upon money belonging to the person upon whom the fine was imposed. But the question here occurs, whether money collected by the sheriff on an execution, becomes the property of the plaintiff before it is received by him? This point is mostly elaborately discussed by the Supreme Court of the United States in the case before cited of Turner v. Fendall; and the reasoning contained in the opinion delivered in that case, most conclusively demonstrates the negative of the question. Consequently money under such circumstances is not liable to be taken by the sheriff in discharge of process he may have in his hands. But an attempt was made in this case to show that the money was paid in discharge of the militia fine by the consent of the plaintiff's agent. The consent of the agent, however, is not satisfactorily proven; but if it were, it would be unavailing: for the testimony clearly shows that the agent had no authority to make such an arrangement. His authority was confined to receiving and transmitting the money to the plaintiff. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for proceedings to be had in conformity to the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1816. First v. Miller. 7 Ky. 311, 1816 WL 1613 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
