(Cite as: 4 Bibb 67,  7 Ky. 67 (Ky.),  1815 WL 662 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Boone v. Shackleford. May 27, 1815. *1 In covenant, plea that the defendant was at the time and place ready to perform, etc., is not sufficient, without averring a tender or offer to perform.--Accord-Mitchell v. Gregory, vol. I, 452. Plea that the obligation was given "without any consideration," is permissible under the statute. Plea that the obligation was merely voluntary replication that it "was not merely voluntary" is sufficient. The obligee is not bound to aver or set forth the consideration in replying to a plea denying the consideration; the obligation is prima facie evidence that a consideration was received--and the obligor cannot by pleading negatively throw the burden of proof on the obligee. A plea denying the consideration ought to conclude to the country, but if it concludes with a verification it cannot be taken advantage of on general demurrer. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 97 302 Pleading 302III Responses or Responsive Pleadings in General 302III(A) Defenses in General 302k97 k. Formal Commencement and Conclusion of Pleas. Most  Cited Cases A plea denying the consideration of the contract declared on ought to conclude to the country. Pleading 302 k 205(2) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k205 General Demurrer 302k205(2) k. Objections Reached in General. Most Cited  Cases A defect in the conclusion of a pleading cannot be taken advantage of by a general demurrer. Contracts 95 k 88 95 Contracts 95I Requisites and Validity 95I(D) Consideration 95k87 Evidence as to Consideration or Failure  Thereof 95k88 k. Presumptions and Burden of Proof. Most Cited  Cases The obligation itself is prima facie evidence of a consideration, and the defendant cannot, by pleading negatively that it "was given without consideration," throw the burden of proof on the obligee. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action upon a covenant to pay a negro boy, above the age of 10, and under 15, clear of any impediment, on or before the 20th of May next ensuing the date of the covenant. Among other pleas filed by the defendant, were the following, viz: "1. That on the 20th of May next ensuing the date of the covenant, he was at his place of residence in Shelby county, during the whole of the day, ready with a likely negro boy between the ages of 10 and 15, clear of any impediment, to pay and satisfy the plaintiff the demand in the declaration mentioned; and that the said plaintiff did not, nor did any person for him, attend to receive said negro boy. 2. That the said covenant was given by the defendant to the plaintiff without any consideration whatever. 3. That the said covenant was merely voluntary and without consideration." *2 To the two former of these pleas the plaintiff demurred, and to the latter he replied that the said covenant was not merely voluntary; to which replication the defendant demurred. The plaintiff's demurrer to the pleas of the defendant was sustained, and the defendant's demurrer to the plaintiff's replication overruled by the Court below. Issues in fact being joined upon the other pleas filed in the cause, the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and a judgment was thereupon entered: from which this appeal is prosecuted by the defendant. We have no doubt that the Court below properly sustained the demurrer as to the first plea above mentioned. It evidently does not conform to the precedents contained in the books of forms. It alleges indeed a readiness to pay the negro boy, but it does not aver an offer to do so; whereas the precedents of tender where the creditor is absent, uniformly contain an allegation not only that the debtor was ready, but that he offered to perform his contract. Nor is such an allegation mere matter of form, but is an essential requisite to make the plea in such a case good; because without it, or some equivalent averment, it cannot appear that the debtor would have performed his agreement had the creditor been present: for the debtor might be at the place appointed for the performance of his contract, and ready to perform it, and yet he might not be willing to do so; or in other words, he might be there, and have the means without having the intention to perform his contract. To manifest his willingness or intention to do so, some overt act is necessary; and there is none more appropriate for that purpose than that which is expressed by the averment of an offer to perform his contract. We can, therefore, perceive no error in the Court below adjudging this plea bad. The second plea above mentioned is one of a description which upon much consideration was held good by this Court in the case of Ralston and Sebastian v. Bullitts (vol. 3, 261). The plaintiff has himself treated the third plea above mentioned, which alleges that the covenant was merely voluntary, as good. But there is certainly no essential distinction between it and the former. The difference is not in sense or legal effect, but in the mode of expression only: for a bond or other instrument that is without any consideration, is merely voluntary; and that which is merely voluntary, is without any consideration, so that the two modes of expression are perfectly convertible, and convey precisely the same idea. The Court below, therefore, erred in sustaining the demurrer to this plea. With respect to the defendant's demurrer to the plaintiff's replication to the third plea above mentioned, we have no doubt that the Court below properly overruled it. The demurrer is predicated upon a supposition that the replication should have specially alleged the consideration upon which the covenant was founded. But to require this, would be giving to the statute authorizing a defendant to impeach the consideration of a bond or other instrument under seal, a more extensive effect than would comport with the intention of the legislature. Such an instrument, notwithstanding its consideration may be impeached, was evidently not intended to be deprived of its quality of carrying with it presumptive evidence of being founded upon a consideration. But if when the consideration is denied by a plea, the plaintiff were bound to reply specially the consideration, the effect of the instrument as prima facie or presumptive evidence of a good consideration, would be destroyed; for though it may carry with it a presumption of being founded upon a consideration in general, yet it could not consistently with the principles upon which all presumptions are founded, be evidence of any particular consideration which might be alleged. An issue, therefore, joined upon such a replication, by depriving the plaintiff of the benefit of the presumption arising from the nature of the instrument, would, contrary to the plain intention of the statute, throw the burden of the proof in the first instance upon the plaintiff instead of the defendant. *3 A plea denying the consideration of a bond or instrument under seal, ought perhaps regularly to conclude to the country, instead of with a verification. It is not indeed a traverse of any matter expressly alleged in the declaration, but it is a denial of that which is implied from the matter which is expressly alleged; and what is necessarily implied, is susceptible of being traversed, as well as that which is expressly alleged. But the conclusion with a verification, instead of concluding to the country, is not an available objection upon a general demurrer; and most certainly, when the plea does so conclude, it cannot be improper for the plaintiff to reply generally and tender an issue to the country. We are therefore of opinion that the Court below correctly overruled the demurrer to the plaintiff's replication in this case. But as the second plea was sufficient and the Court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to it, the judgment must for that cause be reversed, and the plaintiff have leave to withdraw his demurrer thereto and reply. The verdict, however, need not be set aside as to the issues which have been tried. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Boone v. Shackleford 4 Bibb 67, 7 Ky. 67, 1815 WL 662 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
