(Cite as: 4 Bibb 391,  7 Ky. 391 (Ky.),  1816 WL 784 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Henderson's administrator v. Clark. Oct. 8, 1816. *1 In detinue by an administrator where he declares on the possession of the intestate, evidence that another person is the rightful administrator, is inadmissible on the general issue; it ought to be pleaded. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 444(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k444 Allegation and Denial of Representative Capacity 162k444(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases In detinue by an administrator, where he declares on the possession of the intestate, the objection that another person is the rightful administrator should be specially pleaded. Executors and Administrators 162 k 449 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k449 k. Issues, Proof, and Variance. Most Cited  Cases In detinue by an administrator, where he declares on the possession of the intestate, evidence that another person is the rightful administrator is inadmissible on the general issue. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action for detinue of slaves. Issues were joined upon the pleas of non detinet and the statute of limitation. On the trial, the defendant, to defeat the recovery of the plaintiff, who sued as administrator, produced in evidence a certificate of administration of the intestate's estate, purporting to have been granted to Rebecca Henderson, the widow of the deceased, by a tribunal in Philadelphia, where it was proven he had lived and died, to which the plaintiff objected, but the Court overruled the objection, and admitted it to go as evidence to the jury. The only question material to be decided, is as to the admissibility of evidence upon the issues joined. A distinction is taken in the books between an action brought by an executor or administrator on his own possession, and one where he declares on the possession of his testator or intestate. In the former case, on the general issue, it is held to be incumbent upon him not only to prove the right of the testator or intestate, but his right to represent the testator or intestate: for otherwise he would fail to prove his title to the thing in dispute. But where he declares upon the possession of the testator or intestate, the right of the testator or intestate, and the wrong done to that right, are all that the plaintiff is bound to prove on the trial of the general issue. In such a case, the right of the plaintiff to sue in his representative character cannot be controverted. To entitle the defendant to do this, it is necessary for him to traverse the plaintiff's representative character by the plea of ne unques executor, or ne unques administrator.--2 Ld. Ray. 824--Peak's Ev. 371. In this case the plaintiff declared upon the possession of the intestate; and as the defendant did not by plea controvert the right of the plaintiff to sue in his representative character, the evidence produced tending to prove that he was not clothed with that character, was inadmissible. The Court below therefore erred in admitting it. *2 Judgment reversed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Henderson's Adm'r v. Clark 4 Bibb 391, 7 Ky. 391, 1816 WL 784 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
