(Cite as: 1 Bibb 409,  4 Ky. 409 (Ky.),  1809 WL 754 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Dunn and wife v. M'Millen. Jun. 2, 1809. *1 The jurisdiction of a Court of Chancery attaches either in rem, vel in personam. Where the decree is to affect the land directly, as in partition or dower, the jurisdiction of the Court is determined by reference to the place where the land lies. But where the decree is for the doing an act which may be done anywhere, as the conveyance of land, or damages in lieu of it, the person of the defendant, wherever he may be served with process gives jurisdiction. That the defendant was domiciliated in a jurisdiction other than that in which he was served with process, does not matter. West Headnotes Venue 401 k 5.1 401 Venue 401I Nature or Subject of Action 401k5 Actions Relating to Real Property 401k5.1 k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 401k5(1)) The appellants brought a bill to obtain a conveyance of land, or compensation in damages. It was pleaded to the jurisdiction that the appellee lived in another county, beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and that the land also was in the same county. The plea was overruled on the ground that either of the acts prayed for in the bill might be done as well in one county as the other. Equity 150 k 31 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(A) Nature, Grounds, Subjects, and Extent of Jurisdiction in General 150k31 k. Jurisdiction of the Person. Most Cited  Cases That defendant's domicile was in another jurisdiction than that in which he was served with process does not affect the court's jurisdiction of his person. Equity 150 k 31 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(A) Nature, Grounds, Subjects, and Extent of Jurisdiction in General 150k31 k. Jurisdiction of the Person. Most Cited  Cases The jurisdiction of the court of chancery attaches either in rem or in personam. Equity 150 k 31 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(A) Nature, Grounds, Subjects, and Extent of Jurisdiction in General 150k31 k. Jurisdiction of the Person. Most Cited  Cases Where the decree is for the doing of an act which may be done anywhere, as the conveyance of land or damages in lieu of it, the person of defendant, wherever he may be served with process, gives jurisdiction. Equity 150 k 32 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(A) Nature, Grounds, Subjects, and Extent of Jurisdiction in General 150k32 k. Jurisdiction of Property or Other Subject-Matter.  Most Cited Cases Where the decree is to affect land directly, as in partition or dower, the court's jurisdiction is determined by reference to the place where the land lies. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. *2 THIS was a bill in chancery, in which the appellants were complainants in the Court below. They allege that the appellee undertook to locate and clear out, for Joseph Davis, dec'd, a land office treasury warrant, of 400 acres, for the half thereof. They do not pretend to know whether the warrant was assigned to the appellee, or whether it has, in fact, been located by him; but they assert that he has repeatedly confessed that he had located it upon good land, on Graves' creek, in Harrison county. They lay claim to the land by a demise from Joseph Davis to the complainant Jane, who has intermarried with the complainant James. The appellee filed a plea to the jurisdiction of the Lincoln Circuit Court, in which he avers that the "exclusive cognizance of the said cause, of right belongs to the Circuit Court for Harrison circuit; in which said circuit the appellee is, and was, long before the filing of the bill, a known resident, and in which said circuit the creek or run, on which the land is charged in the bill to have been entered, lies." To this plea the appellants demurred; and the Court below overruled the demurrer, and awarded to the appellee his costs. From this decree an appeal has been taken, and two questions are now made for the decision of this Court: 1. Had the Lincoln Circuit Court jurisdiction of the cause? and 2. If the Court had not jurisdiction, is the decree of the Court erroneous in awarding costs to the appellee? The recent establishment of our Courts precludes the idea of their deriving any portion of their authority from the common law, or from immemorial usage or prescription. It is only from a just exposition of the laws instituting the Courts and delegating to them their powers, that we can learn the true extent and limits of the jurisdiction they possess. By the seventh section of the act establishing Circuit Courts, it is enacted, "that the Circuit Courts established by this act shall have jurisdiction in all cases, matters, and things, at common law and in chancery, within their respective circuits." Though it is evident that the latitude of the expression here used is sufficient to give to the Courts general jurisdiction as to subjects of litigation, yet it is equally clear that their powers are circumscribed by the territorial limits of their respective circuits. These limits can no more be transcended by them when sitting as Courts of Chancery, than when acting in the capacity of Courts of Common Law. For injuries done to land, the cause of action is local, and immovably fixed to the place where the injury has happened. Hence, at law, local actions, where possession of land is to be recovered, or damages for waste, or for an actual trespass, etc., must be brought in the county or circuit where the injury has been done--See 3 Tuch. Black. 293, and note of the editor, and 1 Bacon's Abridg. title action. But for injuries that may happen any where, the cause of action is supposed to be transitory; and in such cases the defendant is liable to be sued wherever he may be found. Thus, where one borrowed money of the Dutch West India Company, which he, by articles, covenanted to pay in bank at Amsterdam; an action was held to lie for it in England--1 Strange, 611. Analogous to this distinction at law between actions local and transitory, it has been held in chancery, that where the decree is to affect the land directly, as in the case of a suit brought for a partition, or for dower, then the Court cannot entertain jurisdiction only where the land lies: but where the decree is to affect only the person of the defendant, in order to a complete execution of it, as, for instance, where the bill seeks to have the performance of an ac?? or duty which may be done anywhere, then jurisdiction attaches to the Court wherever the defendant may be found--See 1 Hen. and Mun. 6. *3 The residence of the defendant is not that which gives jurisdiction, either at law or in chancery; it is the existence of the cause, matter or thing within the limits prescribed to the powers of the Court. Therefore, where the cause of action is local, the jurisdiction attaches to the Circuit where the injury was done; but where the cause of action is transitory, adhering to the defendant wherever he goes, his liability to be sued attaches to him wherever he may be found, without regard to his place of residence. In the present case, the appellee was found within the territorial limits prescribed to the jurisdiction of the Lincoln Circuit Court. The decree sought for is for a conveyance of the land or a compensation in damages, either of which acts can be done any where; as well in Lincoln as in Harrison. It appears, therefore, that the Court below erred in overruling the demurrer of the appellants.--Decree reversed. Ky.App. 1809. Dunn v. McMillen 1 Bibb 409, 4 Ky. 409, 1809 WL 754 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
