(Cite as: 5 Litt. 136,  15 Ky. 136 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1390 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Fawcet, &c. v. Pendleton, Pendleton v. Fawcet, &c. Apr. 17, 1824. *1 FROM THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. HENRY DAVIDGE, SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 171(3) 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k169 Injunction 161k171 Grounds 161k171(3) k. Attack on Judgment or Execution. Most  Cited Cases A sale of complainant's property under an execution against a third person will not be enjoined. Execution 161 k 176 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k176 k. Damages and Costs on Quashing or Setting Aside. Most Cited Cases Where the complainant's property is taken and sold to satisfy an execution against another person, he cannot on that ground have relief in equity, and 10 per cent. damages should be given on dissolving an injunction obtained by the complainant to stay proceedings on a sale bond in such a case. CRITTENDEN for Pendleton; SHARP for Fawcet, &c. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. The only pretext for relief in this case, against the sale bond, to stay proceedings upon which, the injunction was obtained, is, that the property of the goods sold was not in the defendant in the execution under which they were sold, and that they were not therefore liable to the execution. But, upon the principles settled in the case of M'Gee v.  Ellis, &c. 4 Litt. Rep. 244, the complainants were not entitled to relief upon this ground, and the bill was consequently properly dismissed, and the injunction dissolved, by the circuit court. But we can perceive no principle which can warrant the refusal of that court to give to the defendant, Pendleton, ten per centum damages upon the amount for which the injunction is dissolved. The sale bond has by law the force and effect of a judgment, and where an injunction is obtained to a judgment, and the injunction is dissolved in whole or in part, the law explicitly requires that the complainant shall pay ten per centum, exclusive of legal interest, upon the sum for which it shall be dissolved. The only exception to this requisition, which has ever been allowed, is the case of an injunction being obtained for good cause, and afterwards dissolved, on the ground that the cause for it had, in the mean time, been removed. But, in this case, there existed no cause for the injunction, at the time it was obtained, and it was therefore wrong ab initio. A bill in equity will not lie in favor of one who alleges that his property was taken and sold to satisfy an execution against another; and an injunction obtained to stay proceedings on a sale bond in such a case should be dissolved with ten per centum damages. The decree, therefore, dismissing the bill and dissolving the injunction, must be affirmed; and the decree, so far as it refuses to make the complainants pay ten per centum damages upon the amount of the sale bond, must be reversed, and the cause be remanded, that a decree therefor may be entered. Pendleton must recover his costs in both appeals. Ky.App. 1824. Fawcet v. Pendleton 5 Litt. 136, 15 Ky. 136, 1824 WL 1390 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
