(Cite as: 2 Bibb 122,  5 Ky. 122 (Ky.),  1810 WL 666 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kincaid et al. v. Taylor. Spring Term, 1810. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(4) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(4) k. Warrant and Survey. Most Cited  Cases "A. enters 500 acres, adjoining his former entry on the head of Lee's Branch, to join on the lower side of his entry, and to run down the branch for quantity." The entry referred to was for 50 acres, and called to lie "on the head of Lee's Branch, four miles from Leesburg, to include the head of said branch, and running down the branch for quantity."  Held, that the 50-acre entry was to be surveyed so as barely to include Lee's Big Spring, in the center of a line which shall form the base of a square, to be run at right angles with the general course of Lee's Branch, so far as the same shall be included in said survey;  thence at right angles from each end of said base, down the branch for quantity-the 500 acres to be laid off to adjoin the lower line of the 50 acres, when surveyed as before directed, on the lower side, and to extend out from the termination of said line an equal distance each way, so as to form the base of a square figure, and to extend from the extremities of said base line down the branch, so that the lower line of the survey will be exactly bisected by said branch. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge WALLACE absent. *1 THE plaintiffs here, who were complainants in the Court below, claim under the following entry--viz: "Reuben Young enters 500 acres on a treasury warrant, adjoining his former entry, on the head of Willis Lee's branch, to join on the lower side of his entry, and to run down the branch for quantity." Entry 500 acres to include a spring, and run down the branch, how to be surveyed. The entry referred to was for 50 acres, and called to lie "on the head of Willis Lee's branch, four miles from Leesburg, to include the head of said branch, and running down for quantity. 500 acres to join the former on lower side and run down the branch, how to be surveyed. The only question in this case is as to the mode of surveying the entry under which the complainants claim. The 50 acre entry is directed by the Court below to be surveyed so as barely to include Lee's big spring in the center of a line which shall form the base of a square figure, and which shall be run at right angles with the general course of Lee's branch, so far as the same shall be included in the said survey; thence at right angles from each end of the said base down the branch for quantity. The 500 acres are then directed to be laid off to adjoin the lower line of the 50 acres, when surveyed as above directed, on the lower side, and to extend out from the termination of said line an equal distance each way, so as to form the base of a square figure, and to extend from each end of the said base line at right angles down the branch for quantity. The mode of surveying the entry of 50 acres, as directed by the Court below, is clearly correct, and in strict conformity to long and well established principles as applied to entries with similar calls. But it is evident that the Court below has departed from the former adjudications of this Court in directing that the entry of 500 acres shall be surveyed with lines at right angles to the base line, without regard to the general course of the branch, so far as it will be included in the survey. The base line is correctly given, but instead of running the lines from the extremities of the base line, at right angles thereto, they ought to have been directed to be run such a course down the branch as that the lower line of the survey would be exactly bisected by said branch. Accord. vol. i, Green v. Watson, 107--Whitaker v. Hall, 79--Davis v. Lock-hart--Hard. 368. Decree reversed, with costs, and cause remanded. Ky.App. 1810. Kincaid v. Taylor 2 Bibb 122, 5 Ky. 122, 1810 WL 666 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
