(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 266,  19 Ky. 266 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1289 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hynes v. Oldham. Oct. 4, 1826. *1 Void and Voidable. Proclamation Decrees. Unknown Heirs. Jurisdiction. APPEAL FROM THE BRECKENRIDGE CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 576(1) 228 Judgment 228XIII Merger and Bar of Causes of Action and Defenses 228XIII(A) Judgments Operative as Bar 228k576 Erroneous or Irregular Judgment 228k576(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where the court has jurisdiction, and defendant has appeared or been warned according to law, the decree is not a nullity, however defective it may be, and it is effectual till reversed or set aside. Judgment 228 k 577(1) 228 Judgment 228XIII Merger and Bar of Causes of Action and Defenses 228XIII(A) Judgments Operative as Bar 228k577 Void Judgment 228k577(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A decree absolutely void is a nullity both as to defendant and all others, but, if not void, but erroneous only, it is effectual till reversed or set aside. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action of ejectment. On the trial in the circuit court, the lessor of the plaintiff produced in evidence, a decree of the Grayson circuit court, together with a conveyance to himself of the land in controversy, made by a commissioner in pursuance of the directions of the decree, which decree was pronounced by the court upon a bill filed by the lessor of the plaintiff, and taken for confessed on publication against the unknown heirs of White, the patentee of the land, and of Ramsey, alleged in the bill to be non resident. To the reading of the decree and conveyance, the defendant objected, but the court overruled the objection, and admitted them to be read. Deed of conveyance by the commissioner, under a proclamation decree against unknown heirs of the patentee, to the lessor of the plaintiff, offered in evidence, objected to, but admitted. The defendant then moved the court to instruct the jury, that the decree and conveyance did not transfer to the lessor of the plaintiff, the title of the patentee, but the court overruled the motion, and refused to give the instruction. Motion for instruction against the title, overruled. To each of these opinions of the circuit court, the defendant excepted, and a verdict and judgment having been rendered against him, he has appealed to this court. Exceptions, &c. The ground of objection to the admission of the decree and conveyance in evidence, and to their legal effect in transferring the title to the lessor of the plaintiff, is the want of an affidavit annexed to the bill, that the names of the heirs of White and Ramsey were unknown to the complainant. Such an affidavit is expressly required by the act of assembly, which authorizes a bill in chancery to be filed against unknown heirs, and the want of it would undoubtedly be fatal to a bill on demurrer, and even render the decree on the bill erroneous, and liable to be reversed or set aside, where it has been, as in this case, pronounced upon the bill, taken for confessed for want of an appearance of the defendants. *2 In a bill against unknown heirs, want of affidavit of complainant, that the heirs are unknown to him, would be fatal on demurrer, or where no appearance is entered, the decree may be reversed or set aside. But a decree may be erroneous without being void, and the legal effect of a decree which is merely erroneous and of one which is void, is quite different. If a decree be void, it can not conclude the rights of the parties to it, and it may be treated by them, as well as by all others, as a mere nullity; but if a decree be not void, however erroneous soever it may be, it is, notwithstanding, binding upon the parties to it and their privies, until it is reversed or set aside. Decreed absolutely void, is a nullity, both as to defendant and all others, but if not void, but erroneous only, it is effectual, till reversed or set aside. This distinction between the legal effect of a void decree or judgment, and of one which is merely erroneous, is founded in good reason, and is sufficiently plain, but by what criteria we may distinguish the one class of decrees or judgments from the other, is not so clear. Where the court has not jurisdiction, or the defendant has not appeared, nor had the warning required by law, the decree is merely void. It may, however, be laid down as a general rule, that wherever the court rendering the decree or judgment has not jurisdiction, or if rendered against a person in his absence, without having the warning which the law requires, the decree, or judgment, will be void. But if the court has jurisdiction, and the person against whom the decree or judgment has been rendered, has appeared, or has had the warning which the law requires to authorize a decree or judgment in his absence, the decree or judgment, however defective in other respects, will be erroneous merely, and not void. But-- Where the court has jurisdiction, and the defendant has appeared or been warned according to the law, the decree is not a nullity, however defective it may be. Tested by this rule, it is evident, that the decree in this case must be deemed merely erroneous, and not void, for want of the affidavit that the names of the heirs were unknown to the complainant, for the land for which the decree was rendered being within the county of Grayson, the court clearly had jurisdiction of the case, and the warning to the defendants, being by a publication for two months in an authorized newspaper, was such as the law requires to authorize a decree against them. The circuit court was therefore correct, in admitting the decree and conveyance to be read as evidence, and of course in refusing to instruct the jury that the title did not thereby pass to the lessor of the plaintiff. Court of the circuit where the land is situated, has the jurisdiction to proceed by proclamation, &c. The judgment is affirmed with costs. Hardin, for appellant; Darby, for appellee. Ky.App. 1826. Hynes v. Oldham 3 T.B.Mon. 266, 19 Ky. 266, 1826 WL 1289 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
