(Cite as: 4 Bibb 252,  7 Ky. 252 (Ky.),  1815 WL 756 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wright v. Coleman. Nov. 16, 1815. *1 An action by petition and summons will not lie on a note given for the hire of a family of slaves, for which the obligor was to pay 100 dollars and find them in the customary winter and summer clothing. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 448 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k448 k. Nature and Form of Remedy. Most Cited Cases An action by petition and summons will not lie on a note given for the hire of a family of slaves for which the obligor was to pay $100 and find them in clothing, the act of the assembly giving the remedy by petition confining it to the cases of bonds and notes for the direct payment of the money. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is a writ of error to a judgment in an action by petition and summons, brought by the defendant in error against the plaintiff, upon a note under seal, whereby the latter acknowledged he had hired of the former a family of slaves, for which he was to pay $100, and find them in the customary winter and summer clothing. The principal objection taken in the assignment of error, is that the action was misconceived. We are of opinion the objection is well founded. The act of assembly, which gives the remedy by petition, confines it to cases of bonds and notes for the direct payment of money. A bond or note, therefore, upon which a petition will lie, must be such as may be correctly described to be a bond or note for the direct payment of money; and as the note in this case contains not only a stipulation for the payment of money, but for the clothing of the slaves, it is plain that it cannot be correctly described as a note for the payment of money only; for the whole note, and not a part only, should come within the description, and the whole of its stipulations must, therefore, be taken into consideration, in determining the aptitude or correctness of the description. A similar construction has been applied by this Court to the statutory provision requiring breaches to be assigned in actions upon bonds with collateral condition, but authorizing judgment to be entered upon bonds conditioned to pay money without such assignment of breaches. In the case of Kennedy v.  Matthews, 1 Bibb 242, in which an action was brought upon an obligation with condition to pay money and find clothing for negroes, and pay their taxes, it was held that the bond was one with collateral condition, and that a judgment for the money in the condition mentioned, without the assignment of breaches, was erroneous. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, that the plaintiff in the Court below may have leave to discontinue his action. Ky.App. 1815. Wright v. Coleman 4 Bibb 252, 7 Ky. 252, 1815 WL 756 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
