(Cite as: 4 Litt. 163,  14 Ky. 163 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1246 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Sneed and Co. v. Coyle and Fowler. Oct. 16, 1823. *1 FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 416 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k416 k. Insufficiency or Illegality of Cause of Action.  Most Cited Cases That a man's partner had given a note in their joint names for a consideration not connected with the partnership transaction is matter of legal defense only, and equity can give no relief, by enjoining a judgment obtained on the note, unless the impracticability of making defense at law is shown. Partnership 289 k 219(1) 289 Partnership 289IV Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 289IV(D) Actions by or Against Firms or Partners 289k219 Judgment 289k219(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Equity will not grant relief to a copartner against judgments at law against the firm on notes executed in the firm name by his partner, on the ground that they were given for a consideration moving to his partner individually, unless he shows that it was impracticable for him to make the defense in the law actions. HARDIN for appellants; HAGGIN for appellees. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. The appellants, as the assignees of two notes executed by William Robertson and Co. and John Fowler, brought suit thereon against Robertson and Coyle, as composing the firm of Robertson and Co. and Fowler, and recovered judgments at law against them, without defense. To stay proceedings upon those judgments, Coyle and Fowler filed their bill in chancery, with injunction, in which Coyle alleges that he and Robertson were partners in the commission business only, and not general partners; that the notes were executed by Robertson for the price of goods purchased by him on his own account, and not on the account of the partnership, and that at the time he (Coyle) was served with the process at law, he was confined to his bed with sickness, and was ignorant of the service of process, until after the judgment at law had been obtained. Fowler alleges that he executed the notes as security, and that he was induced to do so, from a belief that the notes were given upon a transaction in relation to the partnership of Robertson and Coyle. That a man's partner had given a note in their joint names, for a consideration not connected with the partnership transaction, is matter of legal defence only, and equity can give no relief, unless the impracticability of making defence at law is shown. The appellants, in their answer, deny all knowledge of the material allegations of the bill, and put the complainants upon the proof of them. On a final hearing, the circuit court decreed a perpetual injunction, with costs, and the appellants have brought the case to this court. We are unable to perceive any principle upon which Coyle can be relieved. If the notes upon which the judgments at law were obtained, were executed by Robertson on a transaction which did not relate to the partnership between him and Coyle, the latter certainly could not be bound thereby. But this was a matter of a purely legal character, and was exclusively triable at law. To entitle himself, therefore, to relief in equity, on this ground, he ought to have shown some sufficient excuse for not having availed himself of it in a defense at law. This he has not done; for his alleged sickness at the time of the service of the process at law, is not proved, and he pretends to no other excuse for not having made his defense at law. As the hardship of his case, therefore, however great it may be, must be ascribed to his own negligence, he can not be entitled to the aid of a court of equity; and as the only ground which Fowler asserts, for the interposition of a court of equity in his favor, is obviously dependent upon Coyle's right to relief, he can not be entitled to relief, if Coyle is not. *2 The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that the bill may be dismissed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1823. Sneed v. Coyle 4 Litt. 163, 14 Ky. 163, 1823 WL 1246 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
