(Cite as: 2 Bibb 236,  5 Ky. 236 (Ky.),  1810 WL 713 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kouns v. Lawall, lessee of Grayson, etc. Fall Term, 1810. *1 In ejectment by tenants in common, several demises must be laid. Joint tenants or parceners may make a joint demise. After verdict without exception in the evidence the Court will presume the title of the lessors was such as to support the demise charged in the declaration. The connected plat is not part of the record in ejectment, and so much of the verdict as has reference to the connected plat is surplusage, which does not vitiate the verdict. The Court correctly disregarded so much of the verdict as had allusion to the connected plat. Irregularities in executing the writ of habere facias possessionem will not be regarded in the appellate Court until they have been adjudicated in the Court below. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 433(3) 302 Pleading 302XIX Aider by Verdict or Judgment 302k433 Defects in or Want of Declaration, Complaint, Petition, or Statement 302k433(3) k. Nature of Defects or Objections in General.  Most Cited Cases In an action of ejectment, several demises were laid by the lessors of plaintiff, and it did not appear whether they were joint tenants or tenants in common.  Held, that after a verdict, without exception to the evidence, it was too late to question the propriety of laying several demises in the declaration. Ejectment 142 k 111(1) 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k111 Verdict and Findings 142k111(1) k. Requisites and Sufficiency in General. Most  Cited Cases The connected plot is not a part of the record in ejectment, and so much of the verdict as has reference to the connected plot is to be rejected as surplusage. Appeal and Error 30 k 225 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(B) Objections and Motions, and Rulings Thereon 30k225 k. Execution and Enforcement of Judgment. Most Cited  Cases Irregularities in executing a writ of habeas facias possessionem will not be regarded in the appellate court until they have been adjudicated in the court below. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge LOGAN did not sit in this cause. THIS was an action of trespass and ejectment. The plaintiff declared upon several demises from Robert Carter and Hebe his wife, of an nndivided fourth; from Robt. H. Grayson of an undivided fourth, and from Alfred W. Grayson of an undivided moiety, of the premises in question. The tenant in possession was admitted a defendant upon his entering into the common rule, and upon the general issue a verdict was found for the plaintiff, in the following words, viz: "We of the jury, find the defendant guilty of the trespass and ejectment in the declaration supposed, and we find for the plaintiff the lands designated on the connected plat filed herein, by the letters A, B, C, D, and black lines, and assess the plaintiff's damages to one penny." Judgment was thereupon rendered by the Court, "that the plaintiff recover of the defendant the term yet to come of and in the messuage and lands with the appurtenances in the declaration mentioned." To reverse which judgment the defendant has prosecuted this writ of error. *2 Many objections are taken in this case; such of them as are material to be considered, will be noticed in the order in which they are presented by the assignment of errors. The first which claims attention, questions the propriety of laying several demises in the declaration. There is nothing in the declaration which shows whether the lessors of the plaintiff were tenants in common, joint tenants or coparceners; nor is there any exception taken to the evidence on the trial by which this is made to appear. If they were tenants in common, it seems from the current of authorities that the plaintiff could not declare upon a joint demise, but must, as was done in this case, lay several demises from the respective lessors; and although it be true, that joint tenants or coparceners may make a joint demise, we know of no case in which it has been held that they cannot make several demises. But without deciding whether a declaration containing separate demises would be correct where it appeared the lessors of the plaintiff were joint tenants or coparceners, we can have no hesitation in determining that in this case the objection ought not to be sustained, inasmuch as we must presume, after verdict, that the title of the lessors of the plaintiff was such as to support the demises laid in the declaration, where the contrary is not made to appear. The next objection alleges that the verdict is not pursuant to the declaration, but finds for the plaintiff the lands described in the connected plat by the letters A, B, C, D. To this it may be answered, that the connected plat is no part of the record, and so much of the verdict as has reference to it is unintelligible, and must be regarded as mere surplusage. Without this part of it the verdict is in the usual form and corresponds substantially with the declaration. The third objection which demands attention is, that the judgment of the Court is essentially variant from the finding of the jury. This objection is predicated upon the idea that the finding by the jury of land as described in the connected plat was a material part of the verdict; but the Court below very correctly disregarding that part of the finding of the jury has rendered judgment strictly in pursuance of the residue of the verdict. The objection is therefore without foundation and entitled to no weight. The remaining objections relate to supposed irregularities in the emanation and execution of the writ of habere facias possessionem. These irregularities, if they exist, were properly correctable by application to the Court below; and before they have been adjudicated upon by that Court, it would be an assumption of original, and not an exercise of appellate jurisdiction, for this Court to decide upon them. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1810. Kouns v. Lawall 2 Bibb 236, 5 Ky. 236, 1810 WL 713 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
