(Cite as: 4 Litt. 375,  14 Ky. 375 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1301 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mason v. Rogers. FALL TERM, 1823. *1 FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. SILAS W. ROBBINS SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 65 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k64 Counties to Which Execution May Issue 161k65 k. In General. Most Cited Cases A writ of fieri facias cannot lawfully be directed to the sheriff of any other county, unless the debtor removes himself or effects, or resides out of the county where the judgment was obtained. TRIPLETT, HAGGIN and BIBB for mason; WICKLIFFE for ROGERS. This case was decided at the Fall Term 1823; a petition for re-hearing was presented, the case suspended, and on the 31st of May, 1824. the former opinion was renounced, and this adopted in its place. The Reporter could see no necessity for publishing either the former opinion or petition for re-hearing, and has omitted both. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Rogers obtained a judgment aginst Mason, in the circuit court for Montgomery county, where the latter resided and had a large real and personal estate, and had neither removed himself nor his effects out of the county; but Rogers caused an execution of fieri facias to be issued upon the judgment, directed to the sheriff of Fayette county, who, in virtue of the execution took a slave beloging to Mason, which happened to be there; and the only question worthy of notice, is, whether the execution so issued was authorized by law, or not. A writ of fieri facias can not lawfully be directed to the sheriff of any other county, unless the debt or removes himself or effects, or resides out of the county where the udgment was obtained. In the former opinion delivered in this case, we decided that the emanation of the execution to Fayette county, was authorized by an act of Virginia of 1772; but, having entertained serious doubts whether we had not misconstrued that act, we were induced to grant a rehearing, and it now becomes our indispensable duty to re-examine the subject. The act of 1772 did not authorize writs of capias ad satisfaciendum or writs of fieri facias to issue to other counties, in any cases except those in which they might then have issued by the act of 1748. The jurisdiction of our circuit courts, though general with respect to the persons and subjects within their respective circuits, is circumscribed by their territorial limits; and it is plain, that process can not be issued by them beyond those limits, except in cases expressly authorized by law. That there is any act of the legislature of this state, which authorizes the emanation of the execution in this case to Fayette county, is not pretended; but the county courts of Virginia were, like our circuit courts, of a limited territorial jurisdiction, and as the laws which governed those courts were adopted by this state, and made the rules for the government of the quarter session courts at their erection, and were transferred to the circuit courts on their establishment, there is an obvious propriety in resorting to those laws, so far as they have not been altered or repealed, for the purpose of ascertaining the rules of proceeding in our circuit courts. *2 out act of 1796, (1 Dig. 484,) contains the whole of the law now in force on this subject. Rules for construing statutes. The want of power in the county courts of Virginia, to send their process beyond their territorial limits, must, no doubt, have often resulted in a failure of justice; but there does not appear to have been any attempt to remedy this defect, until the passage of the act of 1748. By the 20th section of that act it is provided, "that where judgment shall be obtained in any county court, for any debt or damages, and the person against whom such judgment shall be obtained, shall remove himself and his effects, or shall reside out of the limits of the jurisdiction of such court, it shall be lawful for the clerk of the court where judgment was given, at the request of the party for whom the same was rendered, to issue any writ of fieri facias or capias ad satisfaciendum, and direct the same to the sheriff of any county where the defendant or his goods shall be found." Body of Laws, 196. The intention of the legislature must be ascertained by other evidence besides the words of the act. This act manifestly authorizes only writs of fi. fa. and ca. sa. upon judgments for debt or damages, to be sent from one county to another where the defendant removed himself and effects, or resided out of the county where the judgment was obtained; and, of course, there were other writs of execution which might with propriety, be issued upon judgments, decrees in chancery and final orders, within the county, but which could not be sent beyond its limits; and for want of the power to send these out of he territorial jurisdiction of the courts, there might still be a failure, in some cases, to attain the ends of justice. It became necessary, therefore, that further provision for these cases should be made, and this was done by the act of 1772, which, together with its preamble, is as follows: "Whereas the laws concerning executions, are defective, in not authorizing the clerks of county courts to issue all manner of legal and proper writs of execution, upon judgments, decrees in chancery and final orders, duly recovered and obtained in such county, into other counties, as is done in writs of capias ad satisfaciendum or fieri facias: Be it therefore enacted, that the clerks of the several county courts in this colony, shall be, and they are hereby empowered and required, upon the application of any party who hath obtained or shall obtain any judgment, decree or final order, in such courts, to issue any legal or proper writ or attachment thereupon, as the case may require; as also, to issue attachments against executors, administrators or guardians, who shall fail to account, when ordered so to do by such court, directed to any sheriff of the same or any other county, provided there be fifteen days at the least, and not more than ninety days, between the teste and return." The body of this act would, no doubt, according to the literal import of the words employed, apply to writs of ca. sa. and fi. fa. as well to all other writs of execution, and would authorize their emanation in all cases, from the county where the judgment was obtained to any other county, regardless of the circumstance whether the defendant had removed himself or effects, or resided out of the county where the judgment was obtained, or not. But is this the true construction of the act? The literal interpretation of an act is certainly not, in all cases, the interpretation which either reason or law requires to be given to it; for it is not the words of an act, but the will of the legislature, which constitutes the law, and although words are the most common, they are not the only signs of the legislative will. The context, the subject-matter, the effects and consequences, and the reason and spirit of the law, are often all called in to aid in ascertaining the intention of the legislature. No language is, indeed, so perfect, as to afford words to express every idea, upon all subjects, with perspicuity, and precision; and even when words are not wanting, those that are most happily adapted to the purpose in view, do not always occur to the mind of the legislature. Hence, it is, that words are employed which sometimes go beyond the legislative will, and sometimes fall short of it; which sometimes are too teneral and comprehensive, and sometimes too particular and restricted; and it is, therefore, an established rule of construction, applicable to all remedial statutes, that cases within the reason, though not within the letter of a statute, shall be embraced by its provision, and cases not within the reason, though within the letter, shall not be taken to be within the statute. In Stradling v. Morgan, 1 Plow. 200, and Eyston v. Studd, 2 Plow. 463, the general rule is laid down and supported by arguments of the most conclusive character. In the former case, page 206, after illustrating the latter branch of the rule by numerous examples, it is added in conclusion, "from which cases it appears that the sages of the law heretofore have construed statutes quite contrary to the letter in some appearance, and those statutes which compehend all things in the letter, they have expounded to extend but to some things, and those which generally prohibit all persons from doing such an act, they have interpreted to permit some people to do it, and those wich include every person in the letter, they have adjudged to reach some persons only; which expositions have always been founded upon the intent of the legislature, which they have collected sometimes by considering the cause and necessity of making the act, sometimes by comparing one part of the act with another, and sometimes by foreign circumstances." *3 It must be admitted, that to resort to foreign or extrinsic circumstances to ascertain the reason of a statute, and thereby to limit the literal import of its words, requires the utmost caution and discretion; but, happily, the necessity or resorting to extrinsic circumstances for that purpose, in regard to the act of 1772, does not exist; for we have only to look beyond the body of the act, to its preamble, to see at once the reason of the passage of the act, and the limits within which the import of the general terms employed, should be confined. It is very obvious, that the ca. sa. and fi. fa. would be liable to great abuse, if they were permitted to be issued to any county in the state, at the pleasure of the party; and the legislature, aware of this, at the same time that they saw, and intended to remedy the defect of justice, whic must, no doubt, have resulted from not permitting those writs of execution to be sent from the county in any case, by the act of 1748, gave authority to do so, only in the cases where the defendant had removed himself and effects, or resided out of the county where the judgment was obtained. Now, it is apparent from the preamble of the act of 1772, that the legislature did not consider the laws concerning executions defective, because they did not authorize the emanation of writs of ca. sa. and fi. fa. to any county in the state, ad libitum; on the contrary. the preamble states the laws to be defective only. "in not authorizing the clerks of the county courts to issue all manner of legal and proper writs of execution upon judgments, decrees, &c. into other counties, as is done in writs of capias ad satisfaciendum of fieri facias." Thus plainly indicating the reason for passing act, and the extent to which it was intended to go; for th expressions used with refernce to writs of ca. sa. and fi. fa. show clearly that the legislature was satisfied with what they had already done with respect to those writs, and that they only intended to place other writs of execution upon the same footing. If, then, according to the general rule already mentioned, of construing remedial statutes, cases not within the reason, though within the letter of a statute, can not be considered as embraced by its provisions, it is evident that the act of 1772 ought not to be construed to authorize the emanation of writs of ca. sa. and fi. fa. to any county in the state, at the pleasure of the party, and it follows, that those writs, since, as well as before the passage of the act of 1772, can be sent out of the county, according to the provisions of the act of 1748, only where the defendant removes himself or effects, or resides out of the county. This is in fact the consruction given to the act of 1772 by the court of appeals of Virginia, as is apparent from the case of Brydie v. Langham, 2 Wash. Rep. 72; for in that case the writs of ca. sa. which had issued upon judgments recovered in the county court of Fluvana, directed to the sheriff of Henrico county, where the defendant was taken and committed to jail, were quashed by the inferior court, because the defendant was a resident of Fluvana, and had not removed his effects out of that county, and on an appeal, the judgment was affirmed by the court of appeals. The act of 1772 is not, indeed, mentioned in the report of that case, and the question appears to have turned exclusively on the construction of the act of 1748; but that very circumstance proves that it was considered a settled point, that the act of 1772 did not authorize the emanation of the writs of ca. sa. to the county of Henrico; for, otherwise, the decision quashing those writs would have been erroneous, and the acknowledged learning and abilities of the court, as well as of the counsel concerned, must repel every suspicion that the act of 1772, if it had applied to the case, would have escaped their attention. This accords, too, with what is believed to have been, until recently, the generally, if not the universally received opinion with respect to the act of 1772. In the case of Scott v. Maupin, Hard. Rep. 122, this court itself seems to have entertained that opinion; for they assume the position, that the plaintiff is permitted, only in some cases, to send an execution out of te county, and the position would not be correct it the act of 1772 authorized executions to be sent out of the cunty in all cases. That case, it is true, is not in point, and the court only assumed the position arguendo; but the assumption of it in that way is sufficient to show that it accorded with the settled opinion of the court. *4 As a further proof that it was the generally received construction of the act of 1772, that it did not authorize writs of ca. sa. and fi. fa. to be sent from the county in all cases, we may refer to the repeated acts of the legislature lature of this state upon the subject. By an act of 1792, entitled "an act concerning executions and for the relief of insolvent debtors," the legislature re-enacted, in substance, the same provision as is contained in the act of 1748; and again, in an act of 1796, entitled "an act to reduce into one the several acts and parts of acts concerning executions, and for the relief of insolvent debtors," they have included the same provision, but extended it to all other writs of execution, as well as to writs of ca. sa. and fi. fa. These acts, we think, clearly indicate the opinion of th legislature, that the act of 1772 did not authorize writs of ca. sa. and fi. fa. to be sent out of the county in all cases; for, otherwise, we can not suppose that they would have passed over the act of 1772, and have gone back almost the half of a century, to the act of 1748, and revived and re-enacted its provisions, which only authorize those writs to be sent out of the county in particular cases. To suppose that they had done so, would be not only supposing that their acts were idle and useless, but would, in effect, be ascribing to them the most glaring inconsistency, in authorizing, by their acts, executions to be sent out of the county in particular cases only, when at the same time they knew that by the act of 1772, executions might be sent out of the county in all cases. Such absurdity and inconsistency we can not decently impute to the legislature, and we must therefore take their acts to amount to a virtual recognition of the construction which we have here given to the act of 1772. 1 Litt, 137. 1 Dig., 484. We are constrained, therefore, to any, (Judge Mills dissenting), that the construction which we gave, in the former opinion, to that act, was incorrect, and that the act did not authorize the emanation of the execution in this case to Fayette county. The court below, therefore, erred in not quashing the execution; and, consequently, the judgment of that court must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded to that court, that a judgment quashing the execution may be there entered. DISSENT OF JUDGE MILLS. I can not concur with the majority of the court in the opinion just delivered; and as the question is one of some importance, I have thought proper to state my reasons for that dissent. First, on the construction of the statute of 1772. Construction, it is true, is a necessary part of our language. When our laws are so plain as to need no construction, then human language will cease to possess the defects of those who speak it, and will become perfect. Still, however, construction is more necessary in fixing the meaning of a statute, and in settling what it includes, than it is in curtailing the fixed and well known meaning of words. In the first case, it may always be applied beneficially; in the latter, it ought to be used sparingly, if ever used at all. In this case, there is scarcely room for any. The party who may issue his execution, is any one that has "obtained any judgment, decree, or final order." He may issue "any legal or proper writ of execution or attachment thereupon, as the case may require." To what place or officer directed? "To the sheriff of the same, or any other county." Can it be possible, that the words "any judgment, decree or final order," include only judgments in detinue, where a distringas must issue, or those which authorized an elegit only? But more still, can the words "any legal or proper writ of execution, or attachment, which the case may require," include only attachments, elegit and distringas, and absolutely exclude writs of fieri facias and ca. sa.? Certainly the exclusion must fix an amendment to the act, as clearly as a legislative proviso, in express words, could do. This, I conceive, is taking too great liberty with a legislative act. The direction of the writ, or the county to which it goes, is equally clear, either to the sheriff of the county or that of any other; giving the destination of the writ and the election of the county, completely to the holder of the judgment. But it is contended for the appellants, that this election of, and this destination to, any other county, could not be exercised except in such cases as are prescribed by the act of 1748; that is, the debtor must have removed himself or his effects out of the county, and then, and not until then, could such election be made. Apply this to an elegit or a distringas, for a specific chattel, and the reason fails, and the legislature must be accused of acting unwisely, and to have done nothing by the rule. A person is sued, who finds it his interest to live in another county than that where his estate lies; judgment is obtained, and he has not removed himself or his effects. The distringas, in that case, is defeated, the chattel recovered, and that on which the writ can operate, is in another county, and there the writ can not go. Where is the reason for restraining an elegit, which operates on land only, from passing to another county, because the chattels and persons are not removed, and permitting it, where they are removed, when the writ itself has no operation upon either person or chattels? A gentleman, who has an estate, lives at another county seat to exercise his profession, or fill an office at the seat of government; if the construction contended for is correct, then all such are excepted, when it is believed these and such like cases, are those for which the legislature intended to provide. *5 But the preamble of the act is relied on as fixing the construction of the enacting part of the statute. It is admitted, that a preamble may be used as shedding light on any ambiguities in the body of the act; and if the body has relative words to those used in the preamble, then the preamble must be used. But where the enacting part uses terms broader than the preamble, as this does, it is denied that the preamble can be used to limit it. Indeed, the converse of this proposition is laid down in all the books which treat of the subject. The preamble shall not restrain and abridge the enacting part, nor yet enlarge it, beyond the natural meaning of the expressions, as must be done here. It is true, the legislature recites in the preamble, that the law as it aforetime stood, did not permit other writs to go to other counties, as it did writs of fi. fa. and ca. sa. in some cases. But in the enacting part, it places all on the same footing, and allows them to go to any other county or not, at the absolute election of the plaintiff. It did more, then, than remedy the evil which the preamble mentioned. The second question is one still more intricate, and that on which great reliance was placed in argument. It is contended that the act of 1772, be it broad or narrow in its terms, is repealed by the act of 1792, 1 Litt. L. K. 137. That act did no more than re-enact the act of 1748, and is thus expressed: "When judgment shall be obtained in any court of record, for any debt or damages, and the person against whom such judgment shall be obtained, remove himself and his effects, or shall reside out of the limits of the jurisdiction of the court, it shall be lawful for the clerk of the court where judgment was given, at the request of the party for whom the same was rendered, to issue any writ of fieri facias or capias ad satisfaciendum, or other legal judicial writ, and direct the same to the sheriff of any other county in this state, where the defendant or debtor, his goods or lands, may be found." If the enacting this statute has repealed that of 1772, what becomes of judgments for costs, for a specific chattel in detinue, and judgments for other things? Where are the cases of residence in one county, without an estate there, but with an estate elsewhere, as in the cases before stated? The answer must be, that such cases have remained wholly unprovided for in Kentucky, for upwards of thirty years. Before this conclusion is drawn, the effect which the act of 1792 has upon the act of 1772, must be critically examined. The act of 1748 was found to be too narrow. It did not meet all necessary cases. The act of 1772 enlarged it, and embraced, not only the cases provided for by that of 1748, but also every possible case. After we became a state, and the legislature thought proper to transcribe the existing Virginia code into our own, they transcribed that of 1748, and omitted that of 1772. The former provided for some cases, the latter for all; but they used no expressions restricting the act of 1772, or directing that executions should go in those cases only, pointed out in the act of 1792. The real question then is, as there was an affirmative statute in force, providing for every case, and the legislature re-enacted another affirmative statute, providing only for some cases, without any negative words, does the latter act repeal the former? It is a well settled principle, that repeals by implication are not favored in law. Statutes on the same subject, are construed together, as one body of law, and if they can be made consistent with each other, all shall stand, and nothing less than an actual inconsistency or conflict in operation and effect, will warrant an implied repeal. Hence, it is necessary that the latter statute should contain some negative expressions, such as, in no other case, or not otherwise, or words of that and such like import; or the affirmative proposition contained in the latter statute, must be contrary in its directions, to the affirmative matter of the first. For instance, if one shall direct an office to be kept at a certain place, and the other shall direct it to be kept at another place, as keeping it at the latter place is incompatible with keeping it at the former, and it can not be kept at both, the latter repeals the former. But this is not the case here. There is nothing incompatible, and no negative words. Take that of 1772, all cases are embraced; take that of 1792, part only are embraced, but the residue are not affected. *6 The only apparent reason, then, that can be given for construing the latter statute as a repeal of the former, is, that if this be not done, the latter act can have no operation. It would be passing too high an encomium on the legislative department of government, or, indeed, any other, however learned and respectable it may be, to say that it never did an useless act. And it is denied, that any rule exists in our code, and it is believed that no case can be found, where, to save a latter statute from the imputation of being unnecessary, a former, which includes it and embraces much more, must be held to be repealed by implication only. Words negative, or provisions absolutely inconsistent with each other, are necessary, and less will not do. Such will be found to be the law, as laid down in Foster's case, 10th Rep. 61, which, it is believed, has collated more, both of the rules and cases on this subject, than can be found in any one of the reports besides. It is not, however, admitted, that if a statute or law does exist already, and a case is provided for by it, re-enaction is unnecessary. The common law provides, in most cases, if not in every case, for rights and remedies; yet it is not unfrequent, to find statutes adopted enacting the same things. Statutes often exist, broad in expression and comprehensive in terms, embracing almost every possible case, and in looking over our code, subsequent ones will be found, providing for only some of those cases. This is frequently the case in our penal code, as will be seen by a minute examination of the statutes at large, and not as abridged in our Digest. In all this mass of legislation, it has not been once determined that the latter repeals the former. And if such a principle should assume existence, it would not be easy to foresee all its consequences. The truth is, statutes are frequently passed declaratory of the common law, to preserve the principles of the latter. Statutes are repeated by enactment, for the purpose of republication, and to give new effect to their provisions. The last frequently does not include all the provisions, or provide for all the cases of the first; yet the first remains. If the last includes more than the first, there is only an addition of so much. It is, however, said, that there is a repealing clause in the act of 1792. This is true; but it is not a repealing clause of the act of 1772, in terms, but only of such acts and parts of acts as come within the purview of the act. This seldom or never amounts to more than what results in an implied repeal. The purview of a statute is the enacting part, according to the sense given to it by writers on law; and acts directing matters to be done differently, it is true, from the way they are directed to be done by that statute, are generally repealed by such clause, so far as they differ. But there must be a real difference and conflict. If one directs a matter to be done in one manner, and the latter in another, then the first is taken from the code; but if the first directs a thing to be done in the same mode, and in the same cases as the latter, it is evident the law is unaltered. If the last directs that on certain events, a thing shall be done, when the first has directed the same thing to be done, not only on the occurrence of these events, but also on the happening of others, it can not follow, that on these latter events the thing can not be done, or that it can be done on the existence of the former only; and this is the case that has happened here. *7 But the impolicy of this construction, and arguments ab inconvenienti, have been urged on the re-argument of this question. It has been said, that great sacrifices might be produced by clandestinely passing executions to other counties, and property might be there taken, or even the body, at great inconvenience. This latter argument supposes that a defendant may be ignorant of a judgment, or that he has a right to disregard it, until he is reminded of it by execution. This certainly is an untenable proposition. A defendant is not only a party to a judgment, but the party convict, and is bound to prepare for, and to notice every step in its execution. By paying it, he can avoid the consequences. By observing the records of the clerk, he can find whither the execution is gone. If he does not pay it, and has estate in another county, sufficient, he is bound to surrender it, and it can not be either just or politic to screen him from doing so. It will be found, by such a protection, evils will result, some of which have been noticed, more than sufficient to counterbalance the evils supposed on the opposite side. Besides, as to the policy, it is denied that a country like ours can exist without such a provision as the act of 1772, for a length of time, without great evils. Just so much estate as a debtor chooses to keep in the county where he resides, will be subject to his debts, and no more. This may, and in many cases will be a greater exemption of estate from execution, than would be the reservation of lands or negroes. The county where he lives may be ransacked, and when that is cleared of his estate, although across the line of a neighboring county, he may possess an estate affording immense revenues, yet it is secure, and his debt is unpaid. A great evil this, where estates are much divided, as great estates usually are; and the greater the estate, so much greater is the protection afforded. In England, from when we drew our jurisprudence, all important controversies are drawn into, and decided by the courts of Westminister Hall, from whence the process could reach every part of the kingdom; hence, these evils could not exist. Here, we have found it not only convenient, but necessary, that our judgments should be rendered by local courts, near the doors of every one; hence, it became necessary that the process to execute the judgments of these local courts should run beyond the territorial limits of the county; otherwise, what appeared to be a convenience, would amount, in numerous instances, to injustice; and to remedy this, the legislature of Virginia adopted the act of 1772, and its provisions ought not to be given up, except by an unequivocal expression of the legislative will. I have been thus lengthy in discussing this question, because I suppose the effects of a contrary doctrine will be momentous, and may shake many rights which have been supposed to be stable, under a contrary practice. I am aware, that the execution books of the different court will furnish numerous executions which have been sent abroad and expended their force in other counties, until they have gleaned enough to pay the judgments. And so long as I have been conversant with the courts of the country, I never recollect of hearing the question made, successfully, more than once, and that in the case of a ca. sa. levied under circumstances of peculiar hardship, before a tribunal not well skilled in either common or statute law. Such motions are not limited. The residence of the debtor at a former day, may be easily proved, while the removal of himself or his goods may be more difficult, by lapse of time and death of witnesses. As observed in argument the onus probandi, in all such cases, must lie on the holder of the execution; hence, their destruction may often be certain, and also fatal to those who have purchased estates under them. Indeed, according to the doctrine contended for, it may be plausibly urged, that the removal of the debtor or his effects are necessary prerequisities, to authorize the clerk to send the execution abroad, and that as he had no authority where these did not exist, the executions are void, and ought to be so decided, when used to establish any right or title collaterally. Not only the avoidance of these consequences, but the cotemporaneous exposition of the laws as they have stood heretofore, furnish strong persuasive arguments, not to adopt such a principle, unless compelled by the imperious rules of law. *8 I still contend that the case of Brydie v. Langham does not contravene this doctrine, except by implication. It is impossible to read that case, and the arguments of counsel, the court not having given its reasons, and to believe that the act of 1772 was considered by the court. The only fair inference from it is, that if the act of 1772 was entitled to a different construction, it would have been noticed. It can not be a strong inference, which draws from silence strong conclusions. We well know, that acts have, and will, when numerous, escape the attention of both courts and counsel, and this was true in the case cited. NOTE.--That the subject discussed in the preceding opinions, is involved in great difficulties, admits of no doubt. I submit to the consideration of the reader, whether the phraseology of a part of the first constitution, will give any aid in removing them. The clause I refer to, is in the following words: "All laws now in force in the state of Virginia, &c., shall be in force, until they shall be altered or repealed by the legislature."  1 Litt., 31. The question I would propose, is not, what effect shall be given to the word, altered; but whether any effect shall be given to it. Every lawyer will see the consequences, and I may add, the difficulties, which will result, in a vast number of cases, from giving it any effect. By the act of 1792, the Virginia law on this subject was certainly altered, though less materially than it was by the act of 1796. In the latter act, the word or, is substituted in place of and; consequently, although before the passage of that act, viz., by the acts of 1748 and 1792, execution could not go into another county, unless a man removed both himself and his effects, yet now, under the act of 1796, a removal of either, gives the plaintiff that privilege. Admitting the act of 1796 to be the only law in force on the subject, it is hoped the following queries will show the necessity of legislative interference: 1. Must a man remove all his effects, before he is liable under it, or will the removal of a part subject him? 2. If the removal of a part will subject him, what part will be sufficient? 3. If he is not subjected until he shall remove the whole, and this is known to be the law, will any man ever remove the whole? 4. What will be the effect on purchasers, as well as parties, if it shall appear, ex post facto, at any indefinite period of time, that an execution had issued to another county, when no fact existed which could justify the measure? Although I have referred to the first constitution in this case, because the act of 1796 was passed under it, it may not be improper to observe, that the same questions, as to other laws, may arise under our present constitution. Vide  1 Litt., p. 51. Ky.App. 1823. Mason v. Rogers 4 Litt. 375, 14 Ky. 375, 1823 WL 1301 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
