(Cite as: 3 Bibb 472,  6 Ky. 472 (Ky.),  1814 WL 832 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Crawford v. Beall's administrator. Oct. 18, 1814. West Headnotes Bail 49 k 33 49 Bail 49I In Civil Actions 49k25 Action or Scire Facias on Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k33 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases It is not necessary that a sci. fa. should aver the issuing and return of the ca. sa. Bail 49 k 38 49 Bail 49I In Civil Actions 49k25 Action or Scire Facias on Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k38 k. Appeal and Error. Most Cited  Cases Where the judgment rendered was for the debt and interest, and one penny damages, and costs, and the scire facias against special bail issued thereon omitted the one penny damages, it was held that this was not a sufficient error to be regarded. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS is a writ of error to a judgment obtained by the testator of the defendant in error against the plaintiff in a scire facias upon a recognizance of special bail. Scire facias against special bail, averment that a ca. sa. had issued against the principal need not be made; nor that the debt was not paid by another defendant in the judgment. In recognizances of bail the words this suit instead of said suit does not vitiate it. To claim judgment instead of execution, is a clerical error, and amendable. The judgment recited and one rendered variant in one penny, no cause of reversal. Sundry objections to the proceedings are taken by the assignment of error. Such of them as were particularly relied on in the argument, will be examined, without, however, regarding the order in which they are assigned. The first we shall notice is, "that the scire facias does not show that a ca. sa. had been issued against the principal." This objection is evidently not well founded. The forms of precedents in cases of this kind to which we have adverted, contain no averment that a ca. sa. had issued, nor can such an averment be necessary upon general principles. The undertaking of the bail being either that the principal will pay the debt or render his body to prison, or that he will do it for him, all that can be necessary in order to make the liability of the bail manifest, is to show that neither the first nor second alternative has been performed; and this may be sufficiently done by alleging their non-performance in the words of the undertaking; for it is sufficient in general to allege a breach of an undertaking by averments co-extensive with the words of the undertaking; and there can be no good reason why it should not be deemed so with respect to the undertaking of special bail. If any matter exists dehors his undertaking, which will in law operate to his discharge, he must, as every other defendant would in like cases be bound to do, avail himself of it by way of defense. A second objection relied on is, "that the scire facias does not show that the debt, etc., was not paid by the other defendants against whom the judgment was rendered." The observations made in answer to the former objection, equally apply to this, and clearly prove that it is no less untenable: for the undertaking of the bail is for his principal, and not for others; and to require the scire facias to show that others had not paid the debt, would be requiring it to show more than was necessary in order to make the bail liable according to the terms of the recognizance. This case is not like the case of an action upon an assigned bond, to which it was assimilated in the argument. In that case the defendant having bound himself to pay to the obligee and his assigns, to negative the idea of a performance, it is necessary to aver a non-payment to the obligee as well as to the plaintiff. But in this case, to show that the principal has not done what the bail undertook he should do, is sufficient to show the liability of the latter. *2 A third objection which we shall notice is, "that the scire facias does not show that the recognizance was taken in the suit in which judgment was entered." The scire facias, after reciting in the usual form the judgment and the parties thereto, proceeds to state that the plaintiff in error, on a certain day therein named, "appeared in Court and undertook for the said Lindsay that if he should be cast in this suit," etc. The only departure from the usual form in this recital of the recognizance, is in the use of the term this instead of the term said. These terms are certainly not synonymous, and cannot in all cases be substituted the one for the other with strict propriety; but the use of the former instead of the latter in the present instance, can produce no uncertainty with respect to the suit intended. But one suit had been mentioned, and Lindsay, for whom the plaintiff in error undertook as special bail, was named as a party to it. The expression this suit then cannot under such circumstances be understood to refer to any other suit but that which had been mentioned. A fourth objection is, "that the scire facias claims a judgment, instead of an execution." In this respect it varies from the ordinary form, but it is in a point wholly immaterial, and which cannot operate to the prejudice of either party. If it be an error, it is merely a clerical one, and is amendable according to the established doctrine of amendments. It would not therefore have been a sufficient ground for quashing the scire facias, if a motion had been made in the inferior Court for that purpose at the proper stage of the proceedings; and consequently cannot be sustained as a sufficient reason for reversing the judgment in this Court. The fifth and last objection we shall notice is, "that the judgment awarding execution against the plaintiff in error is variant from the judgment recited in the scire facias." The only variance which was mentioned in the argument, and the only one which we can perceive, consists in this, that the judgment recited in the scire facias is for the debt and interest and one penny damages and costs, and the judgment against the plaintiff in error is for the amount of the debt, interest and costs, omitting the one penny in damages. The objection then is in effect that the judgment is for one penny less than it ought to have been. Waiving the inquiry how far in such a case the party ought to be permitted to assign for error that which operates to his advantage, we should still be of opinion the objection ought not to prevail. A penny cannot perhaps be treated as it was supposed in the argument it ought to be, as absolutely nothing, but it certainly approaches so near it as to be perfectly insignificant; and according to the maxim de minimis non curat lex, it ought not to be regarded, especially when it is (as evidently it is in this case) merely nominal. *3 Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1814. Crawford v. Beall's Adm'r 3 Bibb 472, 6 Ky. 472, 1814 WL 832 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
