(Cite as: 2 Bibb 328,  5 Ky. 328 (Ky.),  1811 WL 798 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Smith v. Shields. Spring Term, 1811. *1 A plea to deny the assignment of the obligation sued upon by the assignee, is admissible. West Headnotes Assignments 38 k 126 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k126 k. Defenses. Most Cited Cases In an action on an instrument under seal by an assignee thereon, a plea denying the assignment is admissible in defense. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge WALLACE absent. THE only inquiry in this case is, whether in an action brought by the assignee upon an instrument under seal, a plea denying the assignment is an admissible defense? In such an action the assignment constitutes an essential part of the plaintiff's right, and an averment of it in the declaration is so indispensably necessary that an omission of the averment would be a fatal defect, even after verdict. It is a general rule, that what is necessary to the plaintiff's right, and material to be alleged in the declaration, may be traversed or denied by the defendant. The only exception to this rule is where the allegation consists of matter of estopel. As the assignment is not of this nature, it follows that the defendant cannot be precluded from denying it. The manner in which this shall be done depends upon the nature of the action. If the action be brought upon a simple contract, the general issue of nil debet or non assumpsit is a denial of the whole case, and puts the plaintiff upon the proof of everything which he was obliged to allege in his declaration. It has accordingly been held that in an action by the indorsee of a promissory note or bill of exchange, the plaintiff must prove the hand-writing of the first indorser, and of the others also, if they be alleged in the declaration--See Peak's Evidence, 235. But in an action like the present, upon a specialty, there is no general issue known to the law which traverses the whole case: the plea of non est factum denies the bond, but it does not question the assignment, and there is no other plea more general and extensive. The defendant can, therefore, put the plaintiff upon the proof of the assignment in no other way than by selecting and traversing that part of the plaintiff's case by a plea adapted to the purpose. If he were not permitted to do this, the plaintiff might recover although there were no assignment in fact, or upon a false or forged assignment; and in such a case the defendant would be subject to a second recovery upon the same bond, in a suit brought by the original obligee. A doctrine from which such flagrant injustice would result cannot be admitted to be correct. As to the inconvenience to which the plaintiff would be subjected, from the right of the defendant to contest the assignment, it grows out of the nature of his title, and is not greater than the plaintiff in other cases is subject to. We have already seen that in an action by an indorsee of a note or bill of exchange, the plaintiff is bound to prove the indorsements through which he derives his title, and if this doctrine be correct when applied to instruments of a commercial kind, which are intended to circulate with as little embarrassment as possible, its correctness when applied to bonds or specialties cannot be doubted. Cases like the present are not to be expected to be found in the English books, because in England bonds were not assignable at law. In point of principle, however, there are causes perfectly analagous to the one under consideration. By a statute of Henry VIII, the grantee or assignee of a reversion is authorized to maintain an action of covenant against the lessee, which he could not do at common law, there being no privity of contract between them. When the plaintiff claims as assignee of the reversion, the conveyance to him may be traversed by the defendant, and when this is done it is incumbent on the plaintiff to prove a conveyance duly and regularly made, or else a payment of rent to him by the defendant--Peak's Evidence, 285. The case of the assignee of a reversion is not distinguishable in principle from that of the assignee of a bond: neither of them could bring an action at common law, and as in the former case so in the latter, when the statute gave the right to the assignee to sue, a correspondent right accrued to the defendant, from the principles of the common law, to contest the facts upon which the plaintiff's claim to recover is founded. We think, therefore, that the plea in this case is in point of law a sufficient bar to the plaintiff's action, and that the Circuit Court erred in sustaining the demurrer to it. *2 Judgment reversed, etc. Ky.App. 1811. Smith v. Shields 2 Bibb 328, 5 Ky. 328, 1811 WL 798 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
