(Cite as: 2 Bibb 241,  5 Ky. 241 (Ky.),  1810 WL 716 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gales v. Shipp. Fall Term, 1810. *1 Application to a Court of Chancery for a new trial in an action at law must be founded on circumstances no produced by neglect nor within the control of the applicant, which prevented him from applying to the Court who tried the cause. The refusal of the Court to continue his cause is no ground for an application to the chancellor; nor that the plaintiff's action was supported by a single witness of doubtul character. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 405 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k405 k. Right to Relief in General. Most Cited  Cases A court of equity will not grant a new trial in an action at law, when it does not appear that any motion for a new trial was made, and no excuse for such neglect is shown. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is an appeal from a decree enjoining a judgment at law in an action of slander and awarding a new trial. It cannot be doubted that cases may occur in which the interposition of a chancellor for the purpose of granting a new trial would be proper. But this is admissible only where the party making the application, from circumstances not produced by his neglect nor within his control, had it not in his power to apply for a new trial and enforce his application before the Court who tried the cause. In this case it is not pretended that any such circumstances existed; on the contrary, it is manifest, not only that the defendant in the action was present at the trial and might if the verdict were unjust have applied to that Court to set it aside, but that he has now no pretensions to urge in a Court of Equity for a new trial of which he could not have availed himself at law on a motion for that purpose. But passing over this objection, the case will still be found utterly destitute of any circumstances which can justify the decree given in the Court below. The bill presents but two points which seem to be relied on for a new trial. The first is the refusal of the Court to continue the cause at the term at which it was tried. The reasons alleged for a continuance were stated in a bill of exceptions to the opinion of the Court, and the cause brought up, when the opinion of the Court below was affirmed and the reasons alleged for the continuance adjudged insufficient--See Hardin's Rep. 224. The case as made out in the bill presents in this respect no new features, and it is clear that circumstances which were insufficient for a continuance of the cause can furnish no legal grounds for a new trial. The other point alleged for a new trial is that the words charged were proved by one witness only, who was of doubtful character. This is denied by the answer and not satisfactorily shown by the proof. But were it admitted, as the credibility of the witness belonged to the peculiar province of the jury to decide, it would not of itself furnish a cause for a new trial, more especially after two concurring verdicts, which had in this case been found for the plaintiff. *2 It is therefore decreed and ordered, that the decree of the Circuit Court be reversed, annulled and set aside, and that the cause be remanded to said Court, who are hereby directed to enter up a decree that the injunction be dissolved with ten per cent. damages on the amount of the judgment at law, and the bill be dismissed with costs, etc. Ky.App. 1810. Gales v. Shipp 2 Bibb 241, 5 Ky. 241, 1810 WL 716 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
