(Cite as: 3 Bibb 532,  6 Ky. 532 (Ky.),  1813 WL 1151 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Duvall, etc. v. Guthrie, etc. Jul. 1, 1813. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 19 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400I Requisites and Validity of Contract 400k19 k. Oral Contracts. Most Cited Cases In 1783 or 1784, A. agreed to give B. 3,000 acres of land for services in locating land for A. A. subsequently, in 1786, sold the same to D., by deed never recorded. In 1802 A. bound himelf by an instrument in writing to convey said land to B., or, on failure, to pay B. the value of his right.  B. obtained a decree in chancery for the conveyance.  D. then brought a bill to enjoin proceedings on that decree, and to have his deed recorded. Held, that the verbal contract between A. and B., being made before the enactment of the statute of frauds, was good, and that B.'s equity, being prior to D.'s equity, must prevail. Equity 150 k 60 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(C) Principles and Maxims of Equity 150k60 k. Where Equities Are Equal, the First in Time Will  Prevail. Most Cited Cases As to two purchasers for a valuable consideration without fraud, the rule of "Qui prior est tempore, potier est in jure" applies, and the first in time must prevail. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 JAMES GUTHRIE having located for George James 8000 acres of land, the latter on the 28th of March, 1783, executed to the former a writing to convey to him one fourth of the land. Sometime in the same year or the next thereafter, it was verbally agreed between them that Guthrie should have 3000 acres lying on the Rolling fork, below the mouth of Prather's creek, for his services as locator. On the 24th of April, 1786, James sold the said 3000 acres to William and Claibourn Duvall, as trustees for Samuel Duvall, for the consideration of 600l. and executed a deed of conveyance therefor, which has never been proven and recorded. On the 12th of October, 1802, Guthrie having previously been informed of the deed from James to the Duvalls, received from James an instrument of writing, in which the latter bound himself to convey to Guthrie within one year the 3000 acres before mentioned, or on failure to do so to pay the value of his right. A verbal contract respecting lands, in 1783, is valid. In equity the rule is qui prior est tempore, potior est in jure. Equity will not deprive a purchaser of a legal advantage unless he was a purchaser with notice of the prior equity. Equity will not give relief to a subsequent against a prior purchaser where both were purchasers for a valuable consideration without fraud. Guthrie afterward filed his bill in chancery against James alone, and obtained a decree for the conveyance. To enjoin proceedings upon that decree, and to have the deed to the Duvalls recorded, they filed their bill, making James and Guthrie and others claiming under him defendants. The Court below decreed that James should pay the 600l. with interest, and dismissed the bill as to the other defendants; from which decree this appeal has been prosecuted. The question is, whether upon this state of facts the Duvalls were entitled to relief against Guthrie, and those to whom he has sold? It is evidently no objection to the agreement between James and Guthrie for the 3000 acres in question, that it was a verbal one: for at that time there was no law in this country requiring a contract for land to be in writing; and that it was for a valuable consideration, does not admit of controversy. Guthrie, therefore, acquired a right in equity to the land in question by that contract, which was anterior to the sale from James to the Duvalls. His subsequent attempts to secure and perfect his right, although they were made after he was informed of the existence of the deed to the Duvalls, cannot impair or weaken the equitable title which he had before acquired. His equity then being prior to that of the Duvalls, must in a Court of Equity be preferred to theirs: for the rule in this respect is, qui prior est tempore potior est jure. If their deed gives them any legal advantage, a Court of Equity will not deprive them of such advantage, unless it be proven that they were purchasers with notice of Guthrie's prior equity; but there is no example in which a Court of Equity has ever given relief in favor of a subsequent against a prior purchaser, where both purchases were made for a valuable consideration and without fraud; nor is there any principle of equity which will justify giving relief in such a case.--The decree must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1813. Duvall v. Guthrie 3 Bibb 532, 6 Ky. 532, 1813 WL 1151 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
