(Cite as: 4 Litt. 293,  14 Ky. 293 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1287 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Halloway and King v. Doe on the Demise of Buck. Nov. 28, 1823. *1 FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. HENRY DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 229 317 Public Lands 317VI Titles Derived from Indians 317k229 k. Title and Rights Acquired. Most Cited Cases The royal proclamation of 1763 rendered purchases from the Cherokee Indians in the western part of Kentucky in 1775 void. Wills 409 k 482 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(A) General Rules 409k482 k. Operation as to After-Acquired Property. Most  Cited Cases Where testators purchased a tract from the Indians, in 1775, and the state of Virginia granted the same lands to them in 1778, the land did not pass by their wills, made before that grant took effect, but descended to their heirs at law. CRITTENDEN, BRECKINRIDGE and LITTELL for appellants; HARDIN, TALBOT and HAGGIN for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action of ejectment. Various demises are laid in the declaration, in the names of different persons; but the only one upon which any point arises in the cause, is in the name of Charles Buck. The land in controversy, lies in what is usually called Henderson's grant; and the appellants being the tenants in possession, were admitted defendants, and jointly pleaded not guilty. Buck derives title under the heir at law of Colonel John Lutterel, and the defendants under his devisees. His will was made the 20th of March, 1775, a few days before which, (to-wit, on the 17th of the same month and year), Henderson and company, of whom Lutterel was one, obtained a deed from certain chiefs of the Cherokee Indians, purporting to grant for themselves and the nation, to Henderson and company, in consideration of ten thousand pounds sterling, all the tract of country bounded by the Ohio, Kentucky and Cumberland rivers, and the highest ridge of Powell's mountain. At the October session of 1778, the Virginia legislature passed an act, granting to Henderson and company, the tract of land on the Ohio, at the mouth of Green river, which has since been known by the name of Henderson's grant, and of which the land in controversy is a part; and in the spring of the year 1781, Colonel Lutterel departed this life, without having revoked or republished his will. On this state of facts, the main question in the cause arises, namely, whether the interest which Lutterel had in the lands granted to Henderson and company, passed by his will to his devisees or descended to his heir at law? The proclamation of 1763 rendered purchases from the Indians, in 1775, void. The Cherokee Indians, in the western part of the State of Kentucky, were embraced by that proclamation, and the purchase made by R. Henderson and company was rendered void by it. But if it had not been void abinitio, the legislature of Virginia had full power to make it void, ex post facto. *2 The purchasers, admitting they took possession under their purchase, could not, by so doing, have acquired either a legal or a tortious seizin. The circuit court decided that the interest which Lutterel had in the land, did not pass by his will, but descended to his heir at law. This decision we have no doubt is correct. The Indian deed certainly conveyed no interest to Henderson and company. All purchases by individuals from the Indians, were expressly forbidden by the royal proclamation of 1763, which remained in force until the revolution, by which the then American colonies became independent states; and no sooner had Virginia thrown off the royal government and assumed the republican form, than she adopted the same principle, and by an ordinance of the convention of 1776, provided that no purchase should be made of the Indians, but on behalf of the public, and by the authority of the general assembly; and in May, 1779, the legislature of Virginia expressly declared all sales and deeds, as well those which had been made, as those which should be thereafter made by any Indian or Indian nation, for the separate use of individuals, utterly void and of no effect. The competency of the Virginia legislature to make such past sales and deeds void, if even they had not been so in their origin, can not admit of a serious question; for at that time the legislature was under no constitutional restraint, which could have the effect of limiting its power in that respect. But the truth is, that all such sales and deeds, were in their origin void, and the act of 1779 was only declaratory of what the law was. The Indian deed, therefore, being void, ab initio, could have no operation, and of course could pass no interest or title to Henderson and company. Nor could they independently of the deed, have acquired any interest or title to the land anterior to the grant from the Commonwealth; for admitting what, however, is not proved in the cause, that they had entered upon the land in consequence of their purchase from the Indians, they could not thereby have gained a seizin or possession adverse to that of the king, or of the commonwealth; for it is well settled, that the king or the commonwealth can not be disseized?? and that where an individual enters upon the lands of the crown or the commonwealth, they are mere intruders, and acquire, no title or interest to their own use, not even that of an actual seizin, the lowest grade of title. At the time, therefore, of making his will, Lutterel had neither a tortious nor legal estate in the lands in controversy, and of course he had no interest which could pass by his will. He, no doubt, however, thought he had such an interest; for he expressly devises in his will, his part of the lands purchased from the Cherokee Indians; and as the grant by the legislature of Virginia was for a part of the same lands, it is contended for the defendants, that his interest thereby acquired, would pass by his will. Were this a question of intention, we should have no hesitation in giving our assent to the position contended for on the part of the defendants; but it is not a question of intention, but a question of power; and whether any one has a power to pass by his will, lands which he has not at the time of making his will, but which he afterwards acquires, must depend upon positive law merely, for it is evident in the nature of things, that whenever a man ceases to exist here, all his rights and his powers cease with him, and of course he can have no authority after his death, to direct to whom his lands shall go, except so far as he is permitted to do so by the positive institutions of society. By the common law, it is well known, that no one could devise his lands, and that the power to make a disposition of them by will, was given by the statute of the 32d and 34th of Henry 8th, usually called the statute of wills. This statute was in force in Virginia at the time Lutterel made his will, and remained so until after his death; and according to its settled construction, no one can pass by his will, lands to which he has no title in law or equity, at the time of making his will, but to which he afterwards acquires title. *3 The lands granted by the state of Virginia, in 1778, to R. Henderson & company, although part of the tract purchased from the Indians, did not pass by their wills, made before that act took effect, but descended to their heirs at law. The only authority relied on in the argument, to disprove this position, is a passage read from Shepherd's Touchstone, 428, where it is said, "if a man devise another man's land, this devise is void; but if he, after the devise, purchase this land, now is the devise good." For this doctrine, a reference is given by the author to the case of Brets v. Rigden, 1 Plowden, 344. But, on adverting to that case, we find that the doctrine is only advanced by the counsel in the argument, and not sanctioned by the judgment of the court; for the court there determine, that after acquired lands did not pass by the devise in question, and expressly decide that such a devise is not within the words of the statute of wills. Besides, the doctrine advanced by the counsel in the case of Brets v. Rigden, is said by the judges, in many subsequent cases, not to be warranted by the Year Book, 39th Henry VI. which is cited for its support, and is expressly denied to be law, as will be seen by reference to the cases cited in the marginal note subjoined to the case of Brets v. Rigden, in the last edition of Plowden. The doctrine, therefore, ready by the counsel in the argument of the case from Shepherd's Touchstone, is not law, and is clearly opposed to the whole current of adjudged cases upon the subject. The circuit court, therefore, decided correctly, that the land in question did not pass by Lutterel's will to his devisees, but descended to his heir at law. There are some other points, which were made in the circuit court, and are assigned for error here; but they are such as have been heretofore decided by this court, or such as are so obviously untenable, as not to be relied on in argument, and having been correctly decided by the circuit court, they do not seem worthy of particular notice. Judgment affirmed with costs. NOTE.--The case of Johnson and Graham's lessee vs. M'Intosh, decided in the supreme court of the United States, in 1823, decides the same principle, as to purchases from the Indians.  8 Wheat., 543. Ky.App. 1823. Halloway v. Buck 4 Litt. 293, 14 Ky. 293, 1823 WL 1287 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
