(Cite as: 2 Bibb 273,  5 Ky. 273 (Ky.),  1811 WL 771 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cox's heirs v. Strode, Strode v. Cox's heirs. Spring Term, 1811. *1 At common law, the heir who had aliened the land descended before suit brought, might discharge himself by pleading nothing by descent at the suing of the writ. But nevertheless a Court of Equity held him responsible for the value of the land descended. The statute which renders the heir responsible for the land aliened by him, does not divest the jurisdiction of a Court of Chancery over the subject. So the statute which allows partial payments upon a bond to be set off at law, does not take away the jurisdiction of a Court of Equity. Where the relative situation of the defendants is such that the complainant had his election to make all or only some of them parties, it is no objection to a decree that the cause is not brought to hearing against all. But where the interest of the defendants is so intimately connected, as that either could object if the others had not been made parties, then the cause must be brought to hearing against all. In a bill for payment of a bond all the obligors must be parties, whether the obligation be joint or several; but a mere security, not bound in equity to contribute, need not be made a party. In a bill against the heir to have compensation in money upon the obligation of the ancestor the executor or administrator must be made a party, as the personal estate is first to be charged. If the administrator dies and no administrator de bonis non be taken out, upon suggestion of the fact, the complainant may proceed against the heir, and need not make the securities of the administrator parties to the bill. Upon covenant of warranty the value of the land at the time when the warranty was made is the measure of compensation in case of eviction, and the purchaser is entitled to no compensation for increased value by discovery of mines, by buildings, etc. In covenants of seisin, the measure is the same. In contracts for the sale of land where the vendor without fraud is incapable of making a title, the purchaser is entitled to have his purchase money refunded with interest. Upon a covenant of warranty, where the purchaser is evicted, the value of the land at the time of sale, to be ascertained by the purchase money if expressed in the deed or known, together with interest and costs, legal and extraordinary, expended in defense of the title, is the measure of damages, but if the purchase money be not expressed in the deed, other means may be used to ascertain that value. West Headnotes Covenants 108 k 130(4) 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k123 Damages 108k130 Covenant of Warranty 108k130(4) k. Purchase Money and Interest, and Expenses.  Most Cited Cases Where a vendee of land, with covenants of warranty, is evicted, the measure of his damages for the breach of the warranty is the purchase money, with interest thereon, and expenses of litigation. Covenants 108 k 130(7) 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k123 Damages 108k130 Covenant of Warranty 108k130(7) k. Amount or Value of Property Received  by Covenantor. Most Cited Cases The increased value of the land since the sale cannot be considered, in a suit for breach of the covenant of warranty. Descent and Distribution 124 k 138 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(C) Debts of Intestate and Incumbrances on Property 124k137 Action Against Heirs, Distributees, or Purchasers 124k138 k. Nature and Form of Remedy. Most Cited  Cases An action to recover for the breach of a warranty of title against the heirs of the warrantor is properly brought in equity, where some of the heirs have aliened the land descended to them prior to the commencement of the action, and might, in an action at law, discharge themselves by pleading that they held nothing at the time of suing out the writ. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge WALLACE absent. *2 MORGAN and Cox executed to Strode their joint obligation, conditioned to warrant the title of a tract of land of eight hundred acres. Strode having been evicted from part of this land, brought a suit in chancery, to obtain an indemnity for the damages he had sustained by the eviction, and made Morgan, the heirs of Cox (he having in the meantime departed this life), his administratrix and her securities, defendants. The subpoena was not served upon Morgan, nor were any further steps taken as to him. The heirs and administratrix of Cox answered, but the latter having died pending the suit, the cause was never brought to a hearing as to her, and with respect to her securities no steps were taken subsequent to the service of the subpoena; so that the cause was brought to hearing against Cox's heirs only. The Court below decreed that they should pay to Strode the value of the land from which he had been evicted, estimating it at the time of eviction in its native state, without improvements; from that decree both parties appealed to this Court. Previous to the discussion of the merits of this case, it is proper to dispose of some preliminary points presented to the consideration of the Court by the assignment of errors on the part of Cox's heirs. 1st. They contend that the complainant's claim was purely legal, and that his remedy was at law and not in equity. To obviate this objection it seems sufficient to remark, that some of the heirs had aliened the land which had descended to them prior to the commencement of this suit, and that at common law, where an heir had aliened the land descended to him, he might in a suit at law discharge himself by pleading that he had nothing by descent at the time of suing out the writ. In such case he would, however, be responsible in a Court of Equity--2 Atk. 204, 1 P. Will. 777, 2 Saund. p. 7, n. 2. It is true, that by the statute against fraudulent devises, the heir is, in case of alienation, made liable at law for the value of the land sold by him; but this statute containing no negative words, and its provisions not being inconsistent with the responsibility of the heir in a Court of Equity, does not seem to have taken from the party having a claim upon him, the right to resort to that Court for relief, in cases where such relief would have been proper before the statute. It cannot indeed be denied, that the Court of Chancery had its origin in the defects of the common law, and it was instituted for the purpose of giving relief where Courts of Law afforded none, or at least none that was adequate to the demands of justice. But it is equally undeniable, that in many cases in which the common law originally afforded no remedy, but to which in the progress of time the Courts of Law, by perhaps an unjustifiable liberality, extended relief, the Court of Chancery still retains its jurisdiction. Thus, for example, where a security has paid money for his principal, or a co-obligor has paid the whole debt, the remedy to recover the money was anciently in equity only, and although Courts of Law have in cases of this kind now obtained by long usage a jurisdiction not to be questioned, the propriety of applying to a Court of Equity for relief cannot be doubted. The principle seems to be the same where the remedy at law has been given by statute, in cases which were originally cognizable in a Court of Chancery only. Thus in the case of the security or co-obligor just mentioned, if they have been compelled to pay the money by judgment and execution, the statute has given them a summary remedy, by motion to the Court where judgment was rendered. *3 This statute, however, has never been construed to take from them the right which they had before its passage, of resorting to a Court of Chancery for relief. So in cases where there have been partial payments upon a bond, the statute allowing such payments to be set off at law, does not, in case the party should fail to avail himself of its provisions, preclude his application to a Court of Equity to obtain his credits. Many other cases might be mentioned to exemplify this doctrine, but these will suffice to show the correctness of the position assumed in support of the jurisdiction of the Court in this case. 2. It is objected that the cause was not brought to a hearing against all the parties. Where the relative situation of the defendants is such, that the complainant might, or might not, at his election, have made them parties, we can see no impropriety in bringing the cause to hearing as to some, before it may be prepared for hearing as to the others. But where the interest of defendants are so intimately connected, that either could object to a bill because the others were not made parties, it would seem necessarily to follow that a decree as to some, without having the cause heard as to the others, would be erroneous. That it was not only proper, but necessary that Morgan should have been a party, is evident, both upon precedent and principle. It has been determined, that if there be a bill against the executors of one obligor, all the obligors must be joined: so if a bill be brought for the payment of money upon bond, it must be against all the obligors, or else there can be no decree--Hind's Ch. Pr. 4, and the cases there cited. This rule applies, not only where the obligation is joint, but where it is joint and several--Maddox v. Jackson, 3 Atk. 406. The reason is that all the obligors are bound to contribute to the payment of the debt, and that the obligee shall not have it in his power to impose the whole burden upon one, who is entitled to the assistance of others. It is true that the complainant alleges that Morgan was only security; and were that fact admitted, the reason of the rule would not apply to this case, or authorize Cox's representative to object that he was not made a party to the decree. But this fact is denied by the answers, and although there is proof in the cause that the consideration for the 800 acres was given to Cox, yet as the bond itself states that the land was sold by Morgan, and as the title was originally in him, it is probable he was bound at least equally, if not principally, to secure the title, or to indemnify in case it should be defective. Under such circumstances, however, whatever may be the true state of the fact in question, it seems proper that Morgan should have been a party, and proceeded against to a hearing. With respect to the administratrix, it also seems necessary that she should have been a party; for though at law an obligee may sue either the heirs or personal representatives, yet in equity, as the personal estate is first to be charged, the heir cannot be sued without joining the executor or administrator-- Ashurst v. Eyre, 2 Atk. 51, and Knight v. Knight, 3 Pr. Will. 333-4. If when the suit abated by the death of the administratrix, it had been suggested by an amendatory bill or otherwise, that no administration de bonis non had been granted, it would have been unnecessary to proceed farther against the personal estate, as in that case there would have been no personal representative against whom to proceed. As to the securities of the administratrix, they do not seem necessarily to have been parties, and therefore there is no ground for objecting that they were not proceeded against to a hearing. *4 On the merits of the case the only point which demands attention respects the measure of compensation to which the complainant is entitled. On a covenant of warranty, on which the remedy at common law is by voucher or writ of warrantia chartoe, the recovery was according to the value of the land at the time when the warranty was made, and although the land might afterward have greatly increased in value by the discovery of mines or by buildings or otherwise, yet the purchaser, in case of eviction, was entitled to no additional compensation for such increase of value. That this is the settled rule of the common law, is abundantly proven by the most unquestionable authorities--See 1 Reeve's Eq. Law 448, 22 Vin. Abr. 144, Cro. Car. 456, Hargrave's notes to Coke upon Littleton, folio 82 a. The warranty which was a covenant real has long been disused in England, and in its stead have been substituted the personal covenants of seisin, of good right to sell, etc. These latter have superseded the former, on account of the more easy and certain remedy which they afford; but it is apprehended that their introduction into conveyances produced no change in the rule of compensation. Such a change, did it exist, would undoubtedly have been noticed by some of the writers upon this branch of the common law; but not a trace of such a doctrine is to be found in any of the English reporters or elementary treatises; on the contrary, whenever the subject is spoken of, the personal covenants are always mentioned as being preferred, for other reasons, which virtually negatives the idea that their introduction into conveyances was followed by any change in the established measure of compensation--2 Black. Com. 308. This is the more probable too, since it is known to be at this day the settled doctrine in England, that in a contract for the sale of land, where the title proves defective, and the vendor is, without fraud, incapable of making a good one, the purchaser is entitled to recover only the consideration paid, with interest--2 Black. Rep. 1078. See also Sugden's Law of Vendors 166, 176, and the cases there cited. It may not be improper here to remark, that some of the most enlightened Courts of America have recognized and sanctioned by their decisions this doctrine of the common law. The Supreme Courts of New York and of Pennsylvania have determined that on a covenant of seisin, the rule of compensation is the value of the land at the time of entering into the covenant, to be ascertained by the consideration paid, with interest and costs attending the eviction. In the learned and able opinions given by those Courts, it is assumed as an incontestable position, that on a warranty the recovery is according to the value at the time the warranty was made, and not the increased value at the time of eviction; and hence they inferred, as well as from the intrinsic propriety of the rule itself, that the measure of compensation was and ought to be the same upon a covenant of seisin--Staats v. Ten Eyck, 3 N. Y. Term Rep. 111--Bender v. Fromberger, 4 Dallas 441. *5 The law having fixed the measure of compensation, whatever might be our private notions of its equity, we would not, as judges, be at liberty to depart from it. But were the question a new one, and now for the first time to be settled, we know of no rule less exceptionable or more commensurate with the demands of justice than that which the law has established. So far as the increase of value has been the effect of improvements made by the purchaser, he ought to be remunerated; but justice requires that this remuneration should be made by the successful claimant, wh?? receives the benefit of those improvements; for nem?? debet locupletari aliena jacticia is a maxim of universa?? justice, adopted and enforced by our law. If the purchaser came within the statute concerning occupying claimants, the legislature has provided such a compensation to be made by the successful claimant as they deemed just; and if he be not within the provisions of that statute, the principles approved and acted upon by this Court in the case of Hart's heirs v. Baylor FN(a), are calculated to afford him the most ample relief. If he willfully or supinely neglects to pursue the remedy which the law has given against the successful claimant, he ought to abide the loss, and not be permitted to found upon his own negligence a claim to an additional compensation against the seller. FN(a). Hard. But where the land has risen in value from accidental or extrinsic causes, the pretentions of the purchaser to a compensation for such increase of value appears to be unsupported by any principle of moral justice. The rise in the price has not been produced by any merit in the purchaser, nor has it accrued to the benefit of the seller. The former has paid nothing, nor has the latter received anything, for such increased value. Where there has been no fraud in the transactions, and none is alleged in this case, both parties are equally innocent; and as the purchaser is contending de lucro captando, and the seller de damno evitando, to compel the latter to respond to the former for the rise of value, would be directly contrary to the maxim of moral equity, which prohibits one man from being enriched to the prejudice of another. It is said that the purchaser might have laid out his money in buying other lands, with equal advantage in the title, of which he would have been secure; but he might not have done so; he might have laid it out in land, the title of which was defective, and the vendor insolvent; he might have lent it upon bad securities, or he might have lost it in visionary speculations, or squandered it in useless extravagance. There is a clear and palpable distinction between that which a man might have gained, and that which he has actually lost. A bare possible hypothetical loss can never be adopted as the measure of compensation, and still more unjust would it be to allow a compensation for that which is but a possible gain. In all cases upon contract the recovery ought to be confined to the actual damages sustained, without regard to the gain which by possibility might have been made. *6 The increase of value belongs to the proprietor of the land, to which it is inseparably attached, and in strict propriety the purchaser of the defective title cannot be said to have lost that which he never owned. All that he has lost, of which he was proprietor, is the consideration paid, and the money expended in defending the title; and this is all that has accrued to the benefit of the vendor. The money thus paid by the purchaser, together with interest thereon, being the extent of the actual damages sustained on the one side, and the actual benefit received on the other, forms the just measure of compensation to which the purchaser is entitled, and for which the seller ought to respond. This rule, just in general, is peculiarly so when applied to the situation of this country. Such has been the rapid and enormous rise in the value of land in this country, from its unexampled growth in wealth and population, that the parties to contracts of an early day could not, without the spirit of divination, have anticipated such an increase in value; and to subject the seller to pay the present value, would not only be giving to the purchaser more than he had expected in case of eviction, but would involve the seller in most instances in irretrievable ruin. But it is said that it was the general understanding of the people of this country, that in case of eviction the seller was to render to the purchaser the increased value. The general understanding upon a subject of this sort is in most cases but vaguely ascertained; in any case it is but an unsafe and unsatisfactory rule, and in no case ought it to be resorted to where the law has established a fixed and definite rule. But the increase of value expected by the parties (if any were expected) was probably a moderate and reasonable one, such as that the interest of the purchase money might compensate for, and not that enormity of increase which has taken place in the country. Such an increase, as it could not have been anticipated by the parties, did not enter into their expectations, and according to the best ethical writers, what was not in the expectation of the parties makes no part of the contract. We are however inclined to believe that contracts of this sort were most frequently entered into without any distinct view of the extent of the seller's responsibility, the parties leaving it to be determined by the rules of law and reason, applied to their agreements. But if the general understanding of the people were admitted to be what it is supposed, it is clear that an erroneous sense of obligation in the seller, could not give to the purchaser a right to recover that to which he is entitled neither by the rules of morality nor law. Upon the whole, we are of opinion (Judge LOGAN dissenting) that the value of the land at the time of sale, to be ascertained by the purchase money, if expressed in the deed, or known, together with interest thereon and the costs, extraordinary as well as legal, expended in defense of the title, is the measure of damages to be recovered; but if the purchase money be not expressed in the deed, other means may be used to ascertain the value. *7 Wherefore it is decreed and ordered that the decree of the Circuit Court, except as to the defendant Moxley, be reversed, annulled and set aside, and the cause be remanded to said Court, that new proceedings be had therein not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. And it is further decreed and ordered that the complainant James Strode pay to Cox's heirs their costs expended in these cross appeals. Ky.App. 1811. Cox's Heirs v. Strode 2 Bibb 273, 5 Ky. 273, 1811 WL 771 (Ky.), 5 Am.Dec. 603 END OF DOCUMENT
