(Cite as: 3 Bibb 261,  6 Ky. 261 (Ky.),  1814 WL 748 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ralston and Sebastian v. Bullitts. 1814. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 225(3) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k219 Operation and Effect of Decision on Demurrer 302k225 Amendment or Further Pleading After Demurrer  Sustained 302k225(3) k. Time to Amend. Most Cited  Cases Where judgment is entered against the defendants on demurrers to pleas, the court will not at a subsequent term permit them to file other pleas. Bills and Notes 56 k 423 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k423 k. New Promise or Waiver After Discharge. Most Cited Cases A bond given by an indorser for the amount after he is discharged of his liability may be avoided by a plea showing want of consideration. Bills and Notes 56 k 423 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k423 k. New Promise or Waiver After Discharge. Most Cited Cases A subsequent promise by an indorser to pay a note is prima facie evidence that the party making it received due notice of dishonor. Bills and Notes 56 k 498 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k490 Presumptions and Burden of Proof 56k498 k. Presentment, Demand, Protest, and Notice. Most  Cited Cases The burden of proof is on the holder of a bill to show that the drawer had no funds in the drawee's hands, in order to excuse want of notice. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THE record in this case presents some points of practice, which seem proper to be settled previous to the investigation of the merits of the cause. Judgment being entered against the defendants on demurrers to pleas, the Court will not at a subsequent term permit them to file other pleas. Notice of the non-acceptance of a bill required to be given to a party in order to charge him, he will be discharged from any liability unless it be given in a reasonable time. Bond given by an indorser of a bill for the amount after he is discharged of his liability, may be avoided by plea impeaching the consideration. Plea denying that a bond was given for a "good or valuable consideration," sufficient without detailing the facts. Special pleas are sometimes in the negative. The first we shall notice respects the rejection of the last two pleas offered by the defendants in the Court below. Upon this point we can have no hesitation in saying that the Court acted correctly. After the judgment had been entered upon the demurrer to three several pleas filed by the defendants at the preceding term of the Court, to set aside the judgment at the instance of the defendants and permit them to file additional pleas, was not only not a matter of course, but a thing that could not be justified unless it were under the most special and extraordinary circumstances; and so far from such circumstances being shown, the defendants have not offered even the shadow of a pretext in support of their motion. Another point which seems proper to be noticed, is the admission of the two pleas to the filing of which the plaintiffs excepted. These pleas were offered by the defendants at the first term of the Court at which the cause was called. It is true that the defendants had filed a plea to which there was a demurrer, and on their motion had leave to file an amended plea, to which there was also a demurrer, which had been argued and an entry made that the Court would take time to consider until the next term, before the pleas in question were offered. Under these circumstances the defendants might not (strictly speaking) have a right to file additional pleas, yet it was in the discretion of the Court to permit them to do so, and unless there had been an evident abuse of that discretion (which does not in this instance appear to be the case) this Court ought not to interfere. We shall therefore consider the cause on its merits, as standing upon the three pleas filed at the first term of the Court, upon demurrer to which the Court below gave judgment for the plaintiffs. The object of each of these pleas is to question the consideration of the bond upon which the suit is brought. The second denies that the bond was executed upon any good or valuable consideration. The first and third allege that the bond was executed by the defendants in consideration of their supposed liability as indorsers of a bill of exchange, when in truth they were discharged from such liability by the failure of the plaintiffs to give them notice in due time of the nonacceptance of the bill by the drawee. *2 We will in the first place consider whether the facts alleged in these two last mentioned pleas are sufficient to render the bond void for want of a consideration, leaving the other plea to be disposed of afterward. The bill of exchange was drawn by A. Burr, on the 9th of December, 1806, at Frankfort, upon George Ogden, of New York, payable to Charles Lynch, ninety days after sight, indorsed by Lynch to the defendants and by them to the plaintiffs. On the 26th of January, 1807, it was presented for acceptance and protested, but notice thereof was not given until the 13th of February, 1809, when the bond was executed for the payment of the amount of the bill, etc. Where notice of the non-acceptance of a bill is required to be given in order to charge a party, that he will be discharged from any responsibility unless the notice be given in a reasonable time, is a position which does not admit of controversy; nor can it be doubted that the notice in this case was not given in a time which can be deemed reasonable. But it is contended that notice to the defendant was not necessary, they not having shown that they had sustained any damage for the want of it. The reason why notice is required is, that the parties from whom the holder received the bill may immediately call upon those who are responsible to them for indemnity. With respect to the drawer, therefore, if he has no effects in the hands of the drawee, this reason is not applicable: for in such case there is no person to whom he could resort. But with respect to an indorser, the case is different. There is always some preceding party to the bill, to whom he may have recourse, and he is presumed to have paid a valuable consideration for it--See Chitty on Bills, 87, Kydd 131. In general, therefore, it is incumbent upon the holder of a bill, in order to excuse the omission to give notice in due time, to show that the indorser has sustained no actual damage, or at least to show such facts as may afford an inference to that effect. But were it necessary for the defendants to show that they had sustained any damage, it seems sufficiently alleged in one of the pleas under consideration, in which it is averred that the bill was indorsed to them for a valuable consideration, and that for want of due notice they have lost the opportunity of recovering the amount of the bill, etc., from the drawer, he having become insolvent at the expiration of the time within which such notice should have been given. If, therefore, the defendants were wholly discharged from any responsibility for want of due notice of the non-acceptance of the bill, the bond given for the payment of the amount of the bill, etc., was without consideration. A promise to pay in such a case is held not to be binding--See Blesard v. Hirst, 5 Burr. 2670, Kydd 119. Nor would the circumstance that the promise was reduced to writing, make any difference: for a written, no more than a verbal, promise is binding if made without consideration: and the act of 1801  (2 Litt. 442), having authorized the defendant in an action upon a bond or other writing upon seal, by special plea to impeach or go into the consideration in the same manner as if such writing had not been sealed, it evidently follows that the bond on which suit is brought is in this respect placed upon the same footing as a verbal or written promise, and consequently not binding upon the defendants. *3 With respect to the other plea, which denies that the bond was given for any good or valid consideration, we can see no objection to it. If it were the intention of the legislature in passing the act before alluded to, to authorize an inquiry into the consideration of a bond merely voluntary, as it obviously appears to have been, no other plea would answer. It does not follow, as was supposed by one of the counsel, that because the plea is in the negative, it is not such an one as is authorized by the act. Although in the negative, yet it is a special plea: it does not, like the general issue, traverse the plaintiff's whole declaration, but advances new matter not stated in the declaration. Special pleas are usually in the affirmative, but they are sometimes in the negative--3 Black. Com. 309. We are, therefore, of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in adjudging the pleas filed by the defendants insufficient. It is therefore considered by the Court that the judgment of the Circuit Court be reversed, that the cause be remanded to said Court, and that the plaintiffs, on application for that purpose, have leave to withdraw their demurrer to the defendants' plea and reply thereto, and if they do not apply for leave that judgment may be entered upon the demurrer for the defendants. Ky.App. 1814. Ralston v. Bullitts 3 Bibb 261, 6 Ky. 261, 1814 WL 748 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
