(Cite as: 4 Bibb 464,  7 Ky. 464 (Ky.),  1816 WL 1501 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Dotson, etc. v. Sibert. Nov. 29, 1816. *1 Where a stream is the dividing line between two counties, application to erect a milldam across it must be made to the Court of the County wherein the lands proposed for the abutment are. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is an appeal from an order of the Washington County Court granting leave to the appellee to build a mill on the Beech fork, where it forms the boundary between the counties of Nelson and Washington. It appears from the record that the appellee is the owner of the land on the Washington side of the stream where the mill is proposed to be erected, and that Dotson, one of the appellants, owns the land on the opposite side against which the dam is to be abutted. In such a case the act entitled "an act to reduce into one the several acts concerning mill-dams and other obstructions in water courses," passed February 1797,  (1 Litt, 607) expressly requires the application to be made to the Court of the County wherein the lands proposed for the abutment are. It is clear, therefore, according to this act, that the jurisdiction in this case belonged to the Nelson, and not to the Washington County Court. Nor are we aware of any act of the legislature which can be construed to give to the Washington County Court jurisdiction of the case. The only one which we suppose in fluenced that Court in their decision on this point, is the act authorizing mills to be built on the Beech fork, and for other purposes, passed in 1802. But that act, though it makes it lawful to build mills upon the stream in question makes no provision with respect to the mode of proceeding, nor with respect to the Court which shall have jurisdiction in such cases. In these respects, therefore, the act of 1797 must govern; and consequently the proceedings and order of the County Court of Washington are erroneous, and must be reversed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Dotson v. Sibert 4 Bibb 464, 7 Ky. 464, 1816 WL 1501 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
