(Cite as: 4 Bibb 106,  7 Ky. 106 (Ky.),  1815 WL 684 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rochester v. Toler. Jun. 10, 1815. *1 A power of attorney acknowledged in the County Court of another State, and ordered to be certified is good if the acknowledgment be regularly recorded, attested and certified agreeably to the act of Congress, although the power itself does not appear to have been admitted to record?? West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 353(15) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(C) Private Writings and Publications 157k353 Conveyances, Contracts, and Other Instruments 157k353(15) k. Instruments Executed in Other State or  Country. Most Cited Cases A power of attorney acknowledged in the county court of another state, and ordered to be certified, is admissible in evidence, if the acknowledgment be regularly recorded, attested, and certified, agreeably to the act of congress, although the power itself does not appear to have been admitted to record. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THE first error assigned in this case questions the correctness of the opinion of the Court below in admitting to be read as evidence a power of attorney from the plaintiff in that Court to Fores Hunter, without proof of its execution--it not having been, as is alleged, so authenticated as to render it admissible without such proof. Of this point we had at first view considerable doubt, and were inclined to think the objection fatal; but upon a more attentive consideration, we have become convinced of the error of our first impressions, and the correctness of the dicision of the Court below. It appears that the power of attorney was produced by the plaintiff in the Court for the county of Goochland, in the State of Virginia, where he resided, and acknowledged by him as his act and deed, which was ordered by the Court to be certified. The record of this acknowledgment and order is certified and attested by the clerk, with the seal of the Court annexed, and the presiding magistrate certifies that he is clerk of that Court, and that his attestation is in due form. This is in literal conformity with the requisitions of the act of Congress prescribing the mode of authenticating the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of the several States, so as to make them evidence in any other. The only ground upon which we at first entertained a doubt, is, that the power did not appear to have been admitted to record. But this circumstance seems to be immaterial: for the acknowledgement and the order to certify the acknowledgment are of record; which record being authenticated as the law requires, is admissible evidence, and necessarily and conclusively proves the execution of the power. Judgment affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Rochester v. Toler 4 Bibb 106, 7 Ky. 106, 1815 WL 684 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
