(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 97,  17 Ky. 97 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1496 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Loftus v. Cates. Oct. 13, 1824. *1 Error, Land Titles, Disclaimer, Release, Statutes. ERROR TO THE TRIGG CIRCUIT; BENJAMIN SHACKELFORD, JUDGE. West Headnotes Quieting Title 318 k 3 318 Quieting Title 318I Right of Action and Defenses 318k3 k. Grounds for Relief in Equity in General. Most Cited Cases A person in possession of land, holding the legal title, may, by a bill in equity, have a decree for the release of the title set up by an adversary claim, unless he in his answer disclaims and offers to release. Quieting Title 318 k 38 318 Quieting Title 318II Proceedings and Relief 318k33 Pleading 318k38 k. Disclaimer. Most Cited Cases In the answer of defendant to a bill by the holder of the legal title in possession of land for the release of an adversary claim, it is not sufficient to disclaim;  there must be an offer to release. Costs 102 k 47 102 Costs 102I Nature, Grounds, and Extent of Right in General 102k47 k. Disclaimer. Most Cited Cases Where a defendant, in his answer to the bill of a holder of the legal title to land in possession, for the release of an adverse claim held by defendant, disclaimed all title to the land, it was held that such disclaimer, without an offer to release, did not free defendant from liability for costs. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Statement of the case. This was a bill in chancery, exhibited by Cates gainst Loftus, in which, in substance, he alleges that ??e has the legal title to, and is in possession of a tract ??f 400 acres of land, to which Loftus pretends claim ??nder a vague and void entry, without equity, and ??rays that Loftus may be compelled to release. Loftus, in his answer, states, that "he does not claim ??tle to the tract of land exhibited in said bill, or any ??art thereof;" but he does not offer to release, and he ??ontroverts Cates' right to resort to a court of equity, ??nd requires of him proof of all the allegations of his ??ill. On the final hearing, the circuit court, at their May ??rm, 1822, decreed Loftus to release to Cates, on or ??efore the day therein named, and appointed a commis??oner, who, on the failure of Loftus to execute the re??ase, was directed to do so in his stead; but the court ??ecreed Cates to pay to Loftus his costs. The commis??oner executed the release, Loftus having failed to do ??, according to the decree. At the November term ??llowing, the court set aside the former decree for ??sts, and entered a decree that Loftus should pay to ??tes his costs, and Loftus has brought the case to this ??urt by writ of error with supersedeas. Decree of the circuit court. (1.) The assignment of errors questions the propriety ?? both the original decree for the land and the subse??ent decree for costs against Loftus; but the writ of ??or is sued out only to the original decree for the ??d, and not for the decree for costs against Loftus, ??d the propriety of the latter can not, therefore, be a ??bject of examination in this case. *2 (1) Where the writ of error embraces only a decree for land, error can not be assigned in a subsequent decree for costs. (2.) With respect to the original decree for the land, its propriety can not, we think, admit of a reasonable doubt. Cates has produced a legal title for the land in controversy, and proved himself to be in possession, and Loftus has wholly failed to establish any claim to it. (2) The person in possession of land, holding the legal title, may, by bill in equity, have a decree for a release of the title set up by an adversary claimant, unless he in his answer disclaims and offers to release. Quere, as to the construction of the answer in this case. The principal ground, indeed, upon which he relies for a reversal of the decree, is, that he disclaimed any title to the land, in his answer. It might, however, well be doubted, whether the answer of Loftus amounts to a disclaimer, especially as he controverts in it Cates' right, and requires of him proof of all the allegations of the bill. (3.) But, admitting Loftus to have fairly and fully disclaimed all title in his answer, still it would not have been sufficient to prevent a decree against him for a release of his title, unless he had offered to give such release. The act of assemby, 1 Dig. L. K. 221, s 29, declares, that "any person having both the legal title to, and the possession of land, may institute a suit against any other person setting up a claim thereto ?? and if the complainant shall establish his title to such land, the defendant shall be decreed to release his claim thereto, and pay the complainant his costs, un?? less the defendant shall, by his answer, disclaim al?? title to such lands, and offer to give release to the?? complainant." Acccording to this provision, it is plain?? that as Cates proved himself in possession, and es?? tablished his title, the court was imperatively require?? to decree Loftus to release his claim, unless he had?? in his answer, not only disclaimed all title, but had?? moreover, offered to give to Cates a release; and thi?? he failed to do. (3) In the answer of the defendant to a bill by the holder of the legal title in possession of land, for a release of an adversary claim, it is not sufficient to diselaim; there must be an offer to release, or it will be decreed. So is the statute. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Sharp, for plaintiff; Crittenden, Haggin and Husto?? for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Loftus v. Cates 1 T.B.Mon. 97, 17 Ky. 97, 1824 WL 1496 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
