(Cite as: 1 Bibb 433,  4 Ky. 433 (Ky.),  1809 WL 764 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Letcher v. Starling. Jun. 8, 1809. *1 Motion for continuance. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 724 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIV Continuance 307Ak723 Motion and Proceedings Thereon 307Ak724 k. Affidavits and evidence. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 94k45  Continuance) An affidavit for continuance stating, in substance, that the witness is material, that the affiant cannot safely go to trial without him, and that he has been summoned, but has gone to Virginia, and will be present at the next term of court, is sufficient;  it not being necessary, when the witness resides in the commonwealth, to state the facts he will depose to. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. NUMEROUS errors have been assigned in this case; but except that which relates to overruling the motion for a continuance of the cause, they seem to be groundless, and not deserving particular consideration. With regard to the motion for a continuance, made on the part of the defendants in the Court below, it may be observed, that though the cause had been for some time depending, yet the record exhibits no evidence that it had ever been previously continued on their application. On the motion, the defendant, Thomas, produced his written affidavit, in substance stating that the testimony of the absent witness was material; that he could not go safely to trial without him: that the witness had been summoned, and that he had gone to Virginia, but would be present at the next term of the Court. The practice, as it relates to applications for continuances, the Court had occasion maturely to consider the case of Simms v. Alcorn, decided at this term FN(a). The rule there laid down, requires that an affidavit, on which a motion for a continuance is founded, in case the witness resides out of the State, should state, on the first, as well as every subsequent application, what he would depose to, that the Court might judge of his materiality; but where the witness resides in the State, it is sufficient, on the first application for a continuance, that the affidavit states that his testimony is material, without alleging the facts he will depose to. This general affidavit ought, however, in no case to be allowed when the application for a continuance is repeated by the same party. FN(a).  4 Ky. 348; Singleton v. Carr post. In the present case, it seems to the Court, as the application for a continuance was the first that had been made on the part of the defendants, that the affidavit was sufficient to entitle them to a continuance. Judgment reversed. Ky.App. 1809. Letcher v. Starling 1 Bibb 433, 4 Ky. 433, 1809 WL 764 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
