(Cite as: 2 Bibb 453,  5 Ky. 453 (Ky.),  1811 WL 849 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lewis v. Knox. Fall Term, 1811. *1 A bond taken for a sum given for the sale and purchase of an office concerning the administration of justice is void; but such consideration must appear from the fac?? of b?? the sheriff, is not evidence against the deputy of any other fact than that a judgment was rendered, but not that such judgment was incurred by the default of the deputy. It is contrary to the principles of natural justice, that a man's rights should be concluded by a decision before he was cited to appear in his defense. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 703 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k703 k. Public Officers and Deputies and Successors. Most  Cited Cases Judgment 228 k 709 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k706 Persons Not Parties or Privies 228k709 k. Judgment as Evidence of Its Own Existence.  Most Cited Cases A record of a judgment against the sheriff is not evidence against the deputy of any other fact than that a judgment was rendered, but not that such judgment was incurred by the default of the deputy. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 19 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353I Appointment, Qualification, and Tenure 353I(C) Deputies and Assistants, Substitutes, and Special Officers 353k16 Deputies and Delegation of Powers 353k19 k. Eligibility and Qualification. Most Cited  Cases A deputy sheriff's bond, containing, beside the usual indemnity conditions, a condition to pay the sheriff a certain sum of money both at the beginning and ending of the deputy's term of office, will not be held invalid, as conditioned to pay those sums of money for the appointment of the deputy, where that fact neither appears on the face of the bond, nor is alleged. Contracts 95 k 124 95 Contracts 95I Requisites and Validity 95I(F) Legality of Object and of Consideration 95k124 k. Affecting Election or Appointment to Office. Most  Cited Cases A bond given for the purchase of an office concerning the administration of justice is void. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge WALLACE absent. THIS was an action upon a bond given by a deputy sheriff and his securities to the principal sheriff, conditioned that the deputy would faithfully perform the duties of the office, so as to keep his principal indemnified, and pay to his principal the sum of seventy-five dollars, at the expiration of a year, and the like sum at the expiration of the principal's term of office. *2 Upon the plea of conditions performed, the plaintiff had a verdict and judgment in his favor, to which this writ of error is prosecuted. The first question is whether the bond is valid or no?? So far as the condition of the bond to perform the duties of the office of sheriff, and keep the principal indemnified, there is clearly nothing in it illegal. For as the sheriff may lawfully appoint a deputy, it would be unreasonable not to permit him to take security for his idemnity against any violation of the duties of the office by the deputy. The objection to the validity of the bond, must depend therefore upon the illegality of the condition, so far as it is for the payment of seventy-five dollars at the expiration of a year, and a like sum at the expiration of the sheriff's term of office. There can be no doubt that a bond or other agreement for a gross sum of money, as a consideration for the sale or deputation of any office which concerns the administration of justice is illegal and void. But to take advantage of an objection of this sort, the consideration must appear upon the face of the condition of the bond, or be averred in pleading. In this case the consideration is not expressed in the bond or condition, nor is it apparent from any pleadings in the cause. For aught that appears to the Court, the money may be due for a valid consideration, and we cannot presume a fact out of the record, for the purpose of avoiding the bond. The objection to the validity of the bond cannot therefore be sustained. The second question made by the assignment of error grows out of a bill of exceptions; from which it appears that the Circuit Court decided that sundry records of judgments against the sheriff, imposing fines for failing to return execution, were sufficient evidence to support the action, without showing that those executions had been delivered to the deputy. From some of these records it appears that the fines were imposed upon the sheriff for the default of his deputy; but from others it does not appear for whose default the fines were imposed. The records of the latter description most clearly could not be evidence of the default of the deputy. For the record is in no case evidence of any matter which is not apparent upon its face. But in truth the records of neither the former nor of the latter description were evidence against the deputy of his default. So far as the fact that a judgment had been rendered against the sheriff was material, the record of the judgment was proper evidence, and no other could be admitted or required; but of the truth of the facts upon which the records purported the judgment to be predicated, it was not evidence against the deputy. He was no party to the proceedings, and it would be contrary to the first principles of natural justice, as well as the fundamental rules of our jurisprudence, that a man's cause should be decided before he had an opportunity to be heard. We think therefore the Circuit Court erred in deciding that the judgments against the sheriff were sufficient to support the action, without showing that the execution had been in the hands of the deputy. *3 Judgment reversed with costs, and cause remanded for new proceedings. Ky.App. 1811. Lewis v. Knox 2 Bibb 453, 5 Ky. 453, 1811 WL 849 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
