(Cite as: 4 Bibb 269,  7 Ky. 269 (Ky.),  1815 WL 768 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wickliffe v. Hill. Dec. 7, 1815. *1 In assumpsit, allegation that the promise was made upon a valuable consideration, without stating what it was, is not sufficiently set forth to enable the Court to judge whether it was a legal consideration or not--Accord. Beauchamp v. Bosworth, vol. 3, 115. West Headnotes Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 19 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k17 Pleading 42k19 k. Declaration. Most Cited Cases In assumpsit, an allegation that the promise was made upon a valuable consideration, without stating what it was, is not sufficient on demurrer, since the court is not able to determine whether it was a legal consideration or not. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS case was formerly before this Court upon a writ of error, when the judgment was reversed because the declaration contained no averment of the consideration upon which the promise or agreement declared on was founded; and the cause being remanded, the declaration was amended in this respect, so as to allege in substance that the promise or agreement was made upon a valuable consideration, but without stating what the consideration was. To the amended declaration the defendant demurred, and pleaded non assumpsit. The demurrer was overruled, and a verdict found for the plaintiff upon the issue joined upon the plea. Whereupon a judgment was given for the damages assessed by the jury, to which this writ of error is prosecuted by the defendant. Whether an averment that the promise was made for a valuable consideration, without setting forth the consideration, would be good after verdict, is a point which need not in this case be decided, since the question occurred upon a demurrer which was not afterward waived by the party. And most clearly such an averment is insufficient upon a demurrer; for it is well settled, that wherever a consideration is necessary to be alleged, it should be set forth at least in such general terms that the Court might be able to judge whether it was a legal consideration and sufficient to support the promise or agreement declared on. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Wickliffe v. Hill 4 Bibb 269, 7 Ky. 269, 1815 WL 768 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
