(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 262,  17 Ky. 262 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1552 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Daniel v. Daniel, Dec. 20, 1824. *1 Evidence, Verdict, New Trial, Error. ERROR TO THE BRACKEN CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 979(4) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(H) Discretion of Lower Court 30k976 New Trial or Rehearing 30k979 For Insufficiency of  Evidence 30k979(4) k. Refusal of New Trial Where Evidence  Is Conflicting or Verdict Is Against Weight of Evidence. Most Cited Cases The refusal of the court below to set aside a verdict on the ground that it was against the weight of the evidence cannot be reviewed on appeal. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. There is no error, either in setting aside the nonsuit, or in refusing to grant a new trial, for which this court can, according to the uniform tenor of its decisions for the last ten years, interpose and reverse the judgment. See the opinion and petition in connection, for a strong case against reversing a judgment on the assignment of error, that the court in which the trial was had, overruled a motion for a new trial, moved on the ground that the verdict was contrary to the evidence. PETITION FOR A RE-HEARING, BY G. M. BIBB, ESQ. (On the assignment of error that the circuit court erred in refusing to grant a new trial, moved for on the ground that the verdict was contrary to evidence.) Nothing but an imperious sense of duty could compel me to ask the court to rehear the case of Enos Daniel v. V. Daniel. The action is for deceit in concealing the unsoundness of the slave. The whole case on the part of the plaintiff below, rests upon the testimony of an old, superannuated man, incapable of moving out of the house. Taking his statement singly, it does prove fraud, or concealment, or deceit; but the repelling testimony of the several witnesses for the defendant below, shows the debilitated state of the old man's mind, and his incapacity to recollect truly. The statements of the plaintiff, made in the presence of others, proved and corroborated beyond doubt, show that there was no fraud, no concealment. Of all the cases reported, where a new trial was awarded by the appellate court, because the verdict was against the weight of evidence, this appears to my mind one of the clearest._______A rehearing is asked. BIBB, for plaintiff. DECEMBER 23, The court, on consideration, overruled the petition. Bibb, for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Daniel v. Daniel 1 T.B.Mon. 262, 17 Ky. 262, 1824 WL 1552 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
