(Cite as: 2 Bibb 595,  5 Ky. 595 (Ky.),  1812 WL 642 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hardwick v. M'Kee. Spring Term, 1812. *1 The jailor has authority to take a bond from his prisoner for keeping the prison rules; an action of eovenant will lie upon the bond. Where plaintiff elects to sue the obligors jointlyon a joint and several obligation, he cannot proceed to judgment against some of the obligors, and abandon his suit as to one. If two only of three obligors sued jointly upon a joint and several obligation, they may plead that matter in abatement. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 237(4) 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(B) Parties 228k236 Judgment Against One or More Coparties 228k237 In  General 228k237(4) k. Dismissal or nonsuit as to one or  more parties. Most Cited Cases The obligee cannot abandon the action as to one of several obligors sued jointly, and take judgment against the others. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 504 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIII Dismissal 307AIII(A) Voluntary Dismissal 307Ak504 k. Dismissal as to part of parties in general. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 128k25  Dismissal and Nonsuit) If the obligee sue the obligors jointly, he cannot abandon his suit against one of them, and proceed to judgment against the others. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE?? THIS was an action of covenant, upon a bond conditioned to keep the prison rules. The bond was taken to the jailor and assigned by him to the plaintiff in the action. The writ was served upon the principal and his securities; the securities appeared and plead to the action, and a verdict and judgment were had against them; but the principal failed to appear, and no farther steps were taken against him. To reverse the judgment against them, the securities have prosecuted this writ of error. At the last term of this Court the cause was submitted, and the Court being of opinion that the jailor had by law no authority to take and assign the bond upon which the suit was brought, considered the bond void, and reversed the judgment upon that ground, without considering the other points made by the assignment of error. But upon further reflection, doubting the correctness of the opinion then given, the judgment then entered was set aside and a rehearing ordered. At this term, after a full argument and much consideration, we decided in the case of Barns v. Williams (5 Ky. 562) where the same point occurred, that the jailor was authorized by law to take and assign a prison bounds bond. It becomes necessary, therefore, now to consider such of the other points made in the assignment of error as are deemed material. These are, 1. That the action was misconceived, it should have been debt and not covenant; 2. That the judgment was erroneously taken against the securities, without having tried or disposed of the suit against the principal. The first point was considered at the last term, in the case of Kennedy v. Kennedy (ante 465-6) and decided to be untenable. For the principles and authorities upon which the decision is founded, we refer to the opinion then delivered. *2 Upon the second point we think the judgment erroneous. The bond is a joint and several one, and the party had his election to sue each of the obligors separately, or the whole jointly; but having elected to sue them all jointly, he could not take a judgment against two of them only, without trying or disposing of the suit as to the other. Had the plaintiff brought his action against the two securities, without joining the principal obligor, they might have pleaded the matter in abatement, but by joining the whole of them in the action they were prevented from doing so. This case differs materially from the case of Tilford v. Hays, decided at this term, in which a judgment against one of three joint obligors was held not to be erroneous, though the action was originally commenced against them all jointly. In that case the suit had abated as to one of the defendants by his death, and further proceedings could only be had against the other two. As to one of them the action was discontinued before the other, against whom the judgment was entered, had appeared and plead. The latter might therefore have pleaded the discontinuance of the suit as to the other in abatement:?? not having done so, he must be considered as having waived his privilege of taking advantage of it. But in this case, as the suit was still depending against the principal obligor when the others appeared and plead, they never had an opportunity of abating the suit by plea, and consequently cannot be considered as having waived a right which, from the nature of the proceedings on the part of the plaintiff, they never had an opportunity of exercising. If the suit be yet depending against the principal obligor, upon the plaintiff's obtaining a verdict against him, a joint judgment may be entered against the whole of the defendants; but if the suit in the meantime shall have been dismissed as to him, or a verdict and judgment given in his favor, no judgment can be rendered against the other co-obligors, and the suit as to them must also be dismissed. Judgment reversed and cause remanded, etc. Ky.App. 1812. Hardwick v. McKee 2 Bibb 595, 5 Ky. 595, 1812 WL 642 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
