(Cite as: 3 Bibb 528,  6 Ky. 528 (Ky.),  1814 WL 857 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Searcy's heirs, etc. v. Rearden. Dec. 19, 1814. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 74 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k74 k. Representation of decedent. Most Cited  Cases In assumpsit against executors and heirs for money paid to their use, an averment that it was paid at the request of the executors is insufficient to charge the heirs. Infants 211 k 1237(3) 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1237 Appointment in  General 211k1237(3) k. Purpose, grounds, and necessity.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 211k78(1)) A guardian ad litem must be appointed for infant defendants before a valid judgment can be rendered against them. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS was an action of indebitatus assumpsit for money alleged to have been paid by the plaintiff to the use of the defendants as executors and heirs, at the request of the executors. The judgment was taken upon a writ of inquiry without an appearance or defense by the defendants, who prosecute this writ of error. A guardian should be appointed to defend for infants in a suit at law. Executors cannot by their assumpsit make heirs liable, if they would not otherwise have been so. Assumpsit against executors and heirs for money paid to their use, averment that it was paid at the request of the executors only, insufficient to charge the heirs. There is no doubt that the judgment is erroneous. It appears from the record that a part of the defendants were infants, and there was no guardian appointed to defend for them. If they had appeared in person or by attorney and defended the suit, the judgment against them would nevertheless have been erroneous and liable to be reversed, and much more is it so as there was no appearance or defense by themselves or any one for them. With respect to the sufficiency of the declaration, which is questioned by the assignment of error, there is more room for doubt. We are however inclined to think that it is insufficient to charge the heirs. The money is not alleged to have been paid by the plaintiff at their request, but at the request of the executors only. But the executors cannot by their act make the heirs liable, if they would not otherwise have been so; and it is settled that a man cannot by the voluntary payment of the debt of another make himself the creditor of that other, and recover from him the amount of the debt so paid. To make the heirs liable, therefore, for the money advanced by the plaintiff the payment should have been alleged to have been made at their request. Their request might indeed be implied, if the plaintiff had been under an antecedent obligation to pay the money: as, for example, if he had been bound to do so in an obligation as security to their ancestor. But that circumstance would be properly matter of evidence only, and could not supersede the necessity of alleging the request which it would have implied: for the request, whether express or implied, is equally necessary to be averred, as the precedents in the books of practice uniformly show. Judgment reversed with costs, and cause remanded for new proceedings. Ky.App. 1814. Searcy's Heirs v. Rearden 3 Bibb 528, 6 Ky. 528, 1814 WL 857 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
