(Cite as: 1 Bibb 323,  4 Ky. 323 (Ky.),  1809 WL 718 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Patrick v. Newel. Apr. 24, 1809. *1 A scire facias may be statute of Kentucky, be executed any time before the return day. "Judgment (on scire facias) per record," is only an informal mode of entering the decision, but it is sufficient. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 870(8) 228 Judgment 228XIX Suspension, Enforcement, and Revival 228k870 Scire Facias to Revive Judgment 228k870(8) k. Judgment and Relief Awarded. Most Cited  Cases On scire facias, an entry, "Judgment per record," though informal, is a sufficient entry of judgment. Scire Facias 346 k 9 346 Scire Facias 346k9 k. Service and Return of Writ. Most Cited Cases A scire facias may, by the statute, be executed any time before the return day. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. THIS was a scire facias against special bail. The errors assigned are the following: 1st, the scire facias was executed one day only before the return day, when it ought to have been executed at least three days before ??he return day: 2dly, it was executed during the term: ??3dly, the judgment is per record, when it ought to have ??een for the award of execution. The two former of these errors, seem to be completely obviated by that provision of the act of assembly, which declares that original writs, and other process, ??ay be executed at any time before the return day. The latitude of the expression "other process," is am??ly sufficient to embrace within its most ob??ious meaning, the writ of scire facias; and there is clearly nothing in the reason of the law, that ought to exclude it. The execution therefore of the process in this case, one day only before the return day, and in term time, is not conceived to be erroneous. The last error assigned, though not without plausibility, evidently applies to the form, not to the substance of the judgment; had the judgment been entered as contended for, it would have been for neither more nor less than it is; nor could it have affected the right or interest of the parties in any possible shape, different from what it does in the manner in which it has been entered. For what purpose then would this Court interfere to correct an error, the correction of which, when made, would produce no effect? Such interference would answer the purposes of chicanery and delay, without tending in any manner to promote the ends of justice. It would certainly have been more formal, to have entered the judgment for the award of execution; but any informality in entering the judgment by the clerk, is expressly cured by the statute of jeofails.--Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1809. Patrick v. Newel 1 Bibb 323, 4 Ky. 323, 1809 WL 718 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
