(Cite as: 5 Litt. 300,  15 Ky. 300 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1434 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ginn v. Commonwealth. Jun. 5, 1824. *1 FROM THE MASON COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76H k 47 76H Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76HV Paternity Proceedings 76Hk42 Evidence 76Hk47 k. Character and Conduct of Prosecutrix. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 53k59  Bastards) In a prosecution for bastardy, the mother, voluntarily becoming a witness for the prosecution, may be asked whether any other person had connection with her about the time of her conception. Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76H k 73 76H Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76HV Paternity Proceedings 76Hk72 Review of Proceedings 76Hk73 k. Appeal. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 53k92  Bastards) That the mother answered in the negative, when asked if she had had intercourse with others about the time she claimed to have had intercourse with defendant, does not cure the error of the court in refusing to allow her to be cross-examined. DEPEW for Ginn; SHARP for Commonwealth. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This is a writ of error to a judgment of the county court of Mason county, charging the plaintiff in error with being the father of a bastard child, and subjecting him to pay for its support. In an examination on a charge of bastardy, the mother may be interrogated as to her intimacy with other men about the time she charges the defendant; and the witness answering the question in the negative, does not cure the error of the court in not permitting her to be cross-examined on that point. We are of opinion that the county court erred in not permitting the plaintiff in error to interrogate the mother of the child with respect to her intimacy with other man, about the same time she charges him. As a general rule, it is no doubt correct, that a witness can not be compelled to criminate himself; but, in a prosecution of this sort, the mother of the child is a voluntary witness to charge the support of it upon the father, and in doing so, she must necessarily criminate herself. When, therefore, she has thus voluntarily come forward to testify in this manner, she must be considered as having waived the privilege of not criminating herself, and is bound to answer all questions relevant to the point in issue; "for (as is observed by Swift) it is a palpable absurdity, to say that when a witness has waived the privilege of refusing to testify facts that will criminate herself, she may, on cross-examination, refuse to testify facts material to the defendant's defense, because they will criminate her." Swift's Evidence, 80-1. It is true, that the only interrogatory propounded to the witness on this point, was answered in the negative by her, notwithstanding the decision of the court against the propriety of the interrogatory; but the response of the witness could not cure the error of the court. Their decision was nevertheless erroneous, and we can not say that it did not operate to the prejudice of the plaintiff in error; for he was bound, in consequence of the decision, to desist from propounding any other interrogatory upon the point, as a perseverance in doing so would not have been respectful or decorous to the court; and he might, therefore, have been thus deprived, by the decision of the court, of the benefit of a full cross-examination of the witness, upon a point material to his defense. *2 The judgment of the county court must be reversed. Ky.App. 1824. Ginn v. Commonwealth 5 Litt. 300, 15 Ky. 300, 1824 WL 1434 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
