(Cite as: 3 Bibb 522,  6 Ky. 522 (Ky.),  1814 WL 852 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. South's heirs v. Hoy. Dec. 9, 1814. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 334(4.1) 30 Appeal and Error 30VI Parties 30k331 Death 30k334 Continuance or Revival of Proceedings 30k334(4) Persons by or Against Whom Revival May  Be Had-Executors and Administrators 30k334(4.1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 30k334(4)) An heir cannot maintain a writ of error to reverse a judgment in covenant obtained against the ancestor in his lifetime without joining the executor or administrator. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS is a writ of error to a judgment obtained by the defendant in error against the ancestor of the plaintiffs in his lifetime, in an action brought for the breach of covenant. A person who is not party or privy to a judgment, or prejudiced thereby, cannot maintain a writ of error to reverse it. Heir cannot maintain a writ to reverse a judgment in covenant against his ancestor without joining the executor or administrator. Upon a judgment against the ancestor the heir and ex'r may be sued by the statute of Kentucky. Before we examine the errors assigned, it becomes necessary to decide upon the right of the plaintiffs to maintain the writ of error. It is a general rule, that no one who is not a party or privy to a judgment, or prejudiced thereby, can maintain a writ of error to reverse it. According to this rule, there is no doubt upon the principles of the common law that the heir might maintain a writ of error to a judgment in a real action, and the executor or administrator to a judgment in a personal action; but not vice versa: for the heir is the representative of his ancestor as to the real estate only, as the executor or administrator is as to the personal estate; and the former could at common law be no more said to be privy to or prejudiced by a judgment in a personal action, than the latter could be said to be privy to or prejudiced by a judgment in a real action. It is true that the heir was always liable to an action upon the obligation of his ancestor, if he were expressly named; and upon a judgment against him, the whole of the lands which had descended from the ancestor might be extended in his hands; but if a judgment were obtained against the ancestor in his lifetime, the obligation became thereby extinguished, and the heir not being named in the judgment was not bound thereby, and no action could be maintained against him upon it, nor his interest be otherwise affected by it. At common law indeed, although the whole of the lands which had descended upon the heir might be extended upon a judgment against him upon the obligation of his ancestor, yet no part of the lands were liable to be taken in execution upon a judgment against the ancestor himself; for it was by the statute of Westminister 2d, that the writ of elegit was given, in virtue of which a moiety of the lands might be taken and delivered to the plaintiff. By that statute the lands were bound from the time when the judgment was rendered, and a moiety thereof was liable to be extended into whosoever hands they should thereafter come. If, therefore, judgment was obtained against a man who afterward died, a scire facias to have execution for a moiety of the lands would lie against the heir; but not as heir, but as tenant of the land; for it would equally lie against any other person who was tenant of the land; and it was still held that an action of debt would not lie against the heir upon the judgment, as it would upon the obligation of the ancestor--2 Saund. 7, note 4. His interest, therefore, as heir, was not so prejudiced by the judgment as to give him a right to maintain a writ of error.--2 Bac. Abr. title Error, letter B. *2 Thus stood the law until 1792  (1 Litt. 128), when the act subjecting lands to the payment of debts passed. That act not only provides that lands may be taken and sold by virtue of a fieri facias, in satisfaction of a judgment for debt or damages, but to effectuate its object it also provides that such actions as will lie against the executors or administrators, may be brought jointly against them and the heir, and directs the execution to be issued against the estate, and not against the goods and chattels only, as theretofore had been done. As the executor or administrator is liable to be sued either by a scire facias or by action of debt upon a judgment against the testator or intestate in his lifetime, it is clear under this act that the heir is also liable to be sued jointly with them; and when proceeded against in this manner, there is no doubt that it must be as heir, and not as terre-tenant, or tenant of the land. His interest therefore as heir, must be prejudiced by the judgment; but it is only sub modo, and not absolutely: for he is made liable only where the action is brought jointly against him and the executor or administrator; and as the act is introductive of a new remedy, it can be pursued only in the manner which the act has prescribed. The act indeed being affirmative, the remedy given by it is cumulative, and that to which the party was before entitled is not taken away. The plaintiff therefore may still, as he formerly might, have a scire facias against the heir, without joining the executor or administrator, to have execution of a judgment against the ancestor. But the proceeding must be against him as tenant of the land, and not as heir, and the execution must be an elegit and not a fieri facias. So upon the same principle the executor or administrator would be still liable as formerly to an action of debt or a scire facias upon such a judgment, without joining the heir. And they may therefore, as is every day's practice, bring a writ of error to reverse the judgment, without making the heir a party. But as the heir is only liable as heir on the judgment in a proceeding jointly and against himself and the executor or administrator, it seems evident that he cannot bring a writ of error in his own name only, without joining the executor or administrator. The objection that there may be no administration granted does not affect the case. The heir cannot be proceeded against until administration is granted, and consequently he cannot be injured until that is done. Besides, he may obtain letters of administration himself, where they have not been granted to another, and thereby prevent the consequences which might result from the want of administration. Writ of error quashed. Ky.App. 1814. South's Heirs v. Hoy 3 Bibb 522, 6 Ky. 522, 1814 WL 852 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
