(Cite as: 2 Bibb 541,  5 Ky. 541 (Ky.),  1812 WL 612 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Darland, etc. v. the Governor, for Caldwell. Spring Term, 1812. *1 A sheriff is not concluded by a judgment quashing a replevin bond taken by him, he not having been a party to the motion. After giving a replevin bond, the defendant cannot move to quash it, because the sheriff had taken in execution, land instead of personal property, or land to which the def't had no title. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 158(2) 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k158 Stay of Execution 161k158(2) k. Bond or Other Security. Most Cited  Cases After giving a replevin bond, the defendant cannot move to quash it, because the sheriff had taken in execution land instead of personal property, or land to which the defendant had no title. Judgment 228 k 707 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k706 Persons Not Parties or Privies 228k707 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A judgment quashing execution and proceedings had thereon, for illegality of the return of the sheriff on the execution, on motion to which the sheriff was not a party, does not bind the sheriff. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge OWSLEY absent. THIS was an action upon a sheriff's bond. The case, as stated in the declaration, is in substance this; that Caldwell sued out of the clerk's office of the Mercer Circuit Court, a fieri facias against the estate of Palmer, and put it into the hands of the sheriff, who returned it "executed upon four hundred acres of land lying on Chaplin, but not time to sell," that Caldwell thereupon sued out a venditioni exponas, upon which Palmer replevied the debt, and the sheriff made his return accordingly; and that afterward the Mercer Circuit Court, on the motion of Palmer, quashed the fieri facias and all the subsequent proceeding thereon, for the illegal and erroneous return of the sheriff. It is moreover averred, that Palmer had no title to the land; that he was, when the fieri facias was in the hands of the sheriff, possessed of personal estate sufficient to satisfy the debt, upon which the sheriff was bound by law to have levied the execution before the land was liable to be taken; and that at the time the fieri facias and the proceedings thereon were quashed, Palmer had become insolvent, and has continued to be so ever since, whereby Caldwell has lost his debt. The main question is, whether these facts render the sheriff liable to an action on his bond. It is clear that the sheriff cannot be bound by the judgment quashing the execution. He was neither party nor privy to the record, and it would be as repugnant to the dictates of natural justice, as to the fundamental principles of the jurisprudence of this country, that any one's rights should be bound, or in any manner prejudiced by a judgment in a case to which he was no party, and in which he had no opportunity of being heard. So far as the fact that such a judgment had been given might be material, the record of it would be evidence against the sheriff; but he cannot be concluded, either as to the law or the facts upon which it purports to be predicated. This point was settled in the case of Lewis v. Knox (5 Ky. 453). *2 It becomes material therefore, to inquire whether the sheriff was guilty of such misconduct, as to justify the judgment quashing the fieri facias and the subsequent proceedings thereon. That judgment purports to be founded upon the defect or illegality of the sheriff's return. It appears from the facts alleged in the declaration, that the defect or illegality of the sheriff's return, is attempted to be inferred from Palmer's having no title to the land, or that he was possessed of personal estate upon which the fieri facias ought first to have been levied, or if he were not, that the sheriff ought so to have stated the fact in his return to justify his taking the land. It might well be doubted whether these premises, or any of them, would authorize the inference attempted to be deduced from them. The better opinion seems to be, that they would not. But be that as it may, the result will be the same in the present case. It is clear that after the execution of the replevin bond, Palmer could have no right to contest the propriety of the seizure of the property under the fieri facias, or to question the correctness of the sheriff's return. Whether there had been any property taken or not, or if any, whether it consisted of real or personal estate, or belonged to Palmer or another, were then matters of the utmost indifference. No state of the fact could operate to his prejudice. But in truth, the replevin bond is not only a virtual waiver of objections to defects if they exist in these respects, but operates as an absolute estoppel to make such objections. The motion made by Palmer to quash the fieri facias and the subsequent proceedings thereon, ought not therefore to have been sustained, and the sheriff cannot legally be made responsible to Caldwell, for the loss which resulted to him from the judgment in that case. Judgment reversed, etc. Ky.App. 1812. Darland v. Governor 2 Bibb 541, 5 Ky. 541, 1812 WL 612 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
