(Cite as: 4 Bibb 453,  7 Ky. 453 (Ky.),  1816 WL 822 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Calmes v. Buck. Nov. 25, 1816. *1 No lapse of time will bar a purchaser of land from his right to a specific execution of the contract, where he or those under him have been in continual possession from the time of purchase. A bond for the conveyance of land presumed to be given for a good consideration, in the absence of proof to the contrary and after a long possession under the contract. A bond to make "a good and sufficient deed" to land, requires a general warranty--Pr. Dec. 47, 195--2 vol. 171. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 44 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400I Requisites and Validity of Contract 400k44 k. Evidence. Most Cited Cases The law will presume a good consideration given for a bond for the conveyance of land. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 62 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400II Construction and Operation of Contract 400k60 Subject-Matter 400k62 k. Description of Estate or Interest. Most Cited  Cases A bond to convey land by "a good and sufficient deed" binds the contracting party to convey his whole estate in the land, although he did not bind himself to convey to the obligee and his heirs. Deeds 120 k 124(1) 120 Deeds 120III Construction and Operation 120III(C) Estates and Interests Created 120k124 Fee Simple 120k124(1) k. Necessity and Sufficiency of Words  of Inheritance or Perpetuity. Most Cited Cases The use of the word "heirs," or other appropriate words of perpetuity, in a deed of conveyance of lands, is essential to pass a fee-simple estate. Equity 150 k 86 150 Equity 150II Laches and Stale Demands 150k86 k. Effect of Possession of Real Property Involved. Most Cited Cases Courts of equity will not refuse to aid a purchaser in possession in procuring a deed on account of lapse of time. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. ON the 29th of August, 1758, William Calmes executed his bond, conditioned to make to Peter Catlet "a good and sufficient deed" for a tract of land in Virginia, the possession of which was immediately given to Catlet. Wm. Calmes, without having made a deed for the land, departed this life, leaving MarquisCalmes his heir at law; and Catlet, some time thereafter, still being possessed of the land, died, having previously made his last will, by which he devised the land to Peter C. Buck, with whom, and those claiming under him, the possession has ever since remained. In this state of things Peter C. Buck filed his bill in chancery, in 1804, against Marquis Calmes, to compel him to execute a deed of conveyance. The grounds relied upon by Calmes in his answer, in opposition to the relief sought by the bill, are, 1. The great lapse of time which has intervened since the execution of the bond by his ancestor. 2. That the bond was voluntary and without consideration: and 3. That only a life estate was intended or understood by the parties to the land to be conveyed. *2 The Court below decreed a conveyance in fee simple, from which Calmes has appealed to this Court. 1. With respect to the lapse of time, it certainly furnishes no objection to the relief sought for by the bill in this case. Length of time, when coupled with possession, may strengthen, but cannot weaken a title; and as far as we are aware, there is no example of a Court of Equity refusing, on the ground of the lapse of time, its aid to one who has been in continual possession. 2. As to the ground assumed in defense, that the bond was a voluntary one, it is sufficient to remark, that there is no proof of the fact; and without proof to the contrary, the law, from the solemnity of the instrument, will presume a consideration, especially after possession has continued with those claiming under the bond for so great a length of time. 3. The third ground of objection, though perhaps more specious is certainly not more solid than either of the others. A contract to convey land, as in this case, by a good and sufficient deed, must, we apprehend, be construed to bind the contracting party to convey the whole estate he has in the land. To say that a conveyance of a part of his interest would be a fulfillment of such a contract, would seem not less repugnant to common sense than to assert that the contract might be fulfilled by a conveyance of a part of the land. It is true that the obligor in this case has not in terms bound himself to convey to the obligee and his heirs; and it is the omission of the word heirs, which probably gave rise to the objection that only a life estate was intended to be conveyed. But most clearly the objection can not be supported on this ground: for although as the law stood at the date of the bond, the word heir was necessary in a grant of land to create an estate of inheritance in the grantee, yet the rule was applicable to executed conveyances only, and not to executory contracts to convey.--Decree affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. Calmes v. Buck 4 Bibb 453, 7 Ky. 453, 1816 WL 822 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
