(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 284,  19 Ky. 284 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1295 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Trumbo and Wife v. Sorrency. Oct. 7, 1826. *1 Devises. Marshalling the Assets. Legatees. Creditors. Executors. Heirs. Substitution. ERROR TO THE BATH CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 848 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(N) Debts of Testator and Incumbrances on Property 409k848 k. Contribution. Most Cited Cases A. devised to his wife his land and personal estate for life, and his slaves in fee. She being executrix, and having paid debts of the testator, exceeding the amount of the personalty, it was held that she might subject the reversion of the land descended upon the heir to the payment of the excess. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Jacob Sorrency's will. Jacob Sorrency by his will, devised to his wife during life, his land, household furniture, horses, hogs, cattle and sheep, and his slaves by name-- the slaves to be disposed of at her death, as she may think proper, except Ails, whom he directs to be set free at the death of his wife. He appointed his wife executrix, but made no provision for the payment of his debts. In 1817, he died, and his wife took upon herself the execution of the will. After having paid some of the debts of the testator, she intermarried with Trumbo, who proceded to pay other debts which together with those previously paid by his wife, amounted to about the value of both the personal estate and slaves. Trumbo and wife then filed this bill against David Sorrency to subject the reversion in the land which had descended upon him as the heir at law of the testator to the payment of so much of the testator's debts as they had discharged exceeding the amount of the personal estate. David Sorrency in his answer, admits that he claims the reversion as heir of the testator, but insists that it is not liable for the debts of the testator which had been discharged by the complainants, the slaves and personal estate being, as he alleges, sufficient and first liable. Bill by executrix to whom the slaves were devised, against the heir of the testator to charge the real estate with the debts she had paid for testator above the value of the personal estate. The circuit court dismissed the bill, with costs, and the complainants have brought the case to this court. Decree of the circuit court dismissing the bill. Land, as well as personal estate and slaves, is by the laws of this country, liable to the payment of debts, whether they be due by record, by specialty, or by simple contract, and land in reversion and remainder is liable as well as land in possession; but personal estate and slaves are both liable before land--nor can a man, as against his creditors, by his will exempt either the personal estate or slaves. One can not as against his creditors, by his will exempt either his slaves or personalty from the burthen of his debts. But, as against his heirs or devisees, he may do so. *2 And if by his will he exempts his personal estate or slaves, and the creditors, notwithstanding, take them as they may do in satisfaction of their debts, those who are entitled to the personal estate and slaves under the will, will be entitled in a court of equity to stand in the place of the creditors and subject the lands descended as well as lands devised for the payment of debts to be sold in satisfaction of their claims. This is called marshalling of the assets. In which case (of exempting the personal estate from the debts,) if the creditors subject the personalty, the legatees thereof shall be recompensed out of the lands descended. What will amount to an exemption of the personal estate, and give a right to the claimant of it, thus to have the assets for the payment of debts marshalled in their favor against lands descended, has formerly been much agitated in courts of equity; but it is now clearly settled that not only express words contained in the will, but an intention plainly manifested, is sufficient for that purpose, and a gift by will, of a specific thing, and even of a pecuniary legacy, has been held to be a sufficient manifestation of the intention of the testator to exempt the personal estate to that extent as against lands descended. Legacy of a specific thing, or sum of money, shall not, as between legatee and heir, be burthened by debts, though not expressly exempted. Thus, in England, where lands as well as personal estate are liable to the payment of specialty debts, it is laid down as a general rule, that if the testator give by his will a cow or a horse or any specific legacy, and leaves a debt by mortgage bond, in which the heir is bound, the heir can not compel the specific legatee to part with his legacy in case of the real estate, and though the creditor may subject this specific legacy to his debt, yet the specific legatee will in equity stand in the place of the creditor. Mad. Chancery, 500. In England, where the heir was bound; he could not shift the burthen on the specific legatee, and if the creditor did, the heir was compellable to recompense. We need not in this case inquire whether the personal estate bequeathed by the testator to his wife, was intended to be exonerated from the payment of his debts, for the complainants have not in their bill set up any claim to its exoneration; but it was plainly the intention of the testator that his wife should take the slave given to her exempt from the payment of his debts, for being devised to her by name, it must be considered as a specific legacy, and as the complainants have paid debts to more than the amount of the personal estate, it is clear that they have a right to stand in the place of the creditors for so much as they have paid beyond the personal estate as against the reversion descended upon the defendant as heir to the testator. Executrix and her husband, she being devisee of the slaves in fee, and of the lands for life, having paid debts of the testator exceeding the personalty, may subject the reversion of the land descended to the payment of the excess, by bill in equity. *3 The decree must be reversed, with costs, and the cause be remanded, that a decree may be there entered according to the principles of this opinion, and other proceedings had, not inconsistent herewith. Triplett, for plaintiffs. Ky.App. 1826. Trumbo v. Sorrency 3 T.B.Mon. 284, 19 Ky. 284, 1826 WL 1295 (Ky.), 16 Am.Dec. 103 END OF DOCUMENT
