(Cite as: 2 Bibb 103,  5 Ky. 103 (Ky.),  1810 WL 660 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Baylor v. Morrison. Spring Term, 1810. *1 M executed his bond to B for rent of a house for the use of N, for 200 dollars: M paid half, B agreed to give N the other half as a fee; N drew the bill, gave some counsel and died before the suit came to issue. B sued on M's bond and had judgment--M enjoined. B is not bound to pay the whole sum to N; a reasonable compensation for the services rendered is all that he is bound to pay. If B had paid N the whole, he would have a claim upon N's representatives to refund. M being N's executor, ought not to have relief in equity against his legal liability, unless he shows he has no assets, and was prevented by B's agreement with N from securing himself. As to N's services rendered, a jury directed to assess how much he deserved; injunction to be perpetual for so much, and dissolved for the residue. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 439 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k439 k. Compelling Set-Off or Reduction of Damages. Most  Cited Cases A. gave his bond to B. to secure the payment of one year's rent of a house to be used by C. A. paid one-half the amount, and B. agreed with C. to give him (C.) the other half of the amount for professional services, to be rendered in a suit in which B. was a party.  C. performed part of the services and died.  Held, in  an action by A. to enjoin a judgment at law recovered against him by B. for the balance due on the bond, that A. was entitled to have the reasonable value of C.'s services applied as a payment on the judgment. Attorney and Client 45 k 134(1) 45 Attorney and Client 45IV Compensation 45k134 Premature Termination of Relation 45k134(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where an attorney is employed to take charge of a certain suit, and dies before the suit comes to issue, but after he had given some counsel thereunder, the client is not bound to pay the whole sum agreed upon for the service to be rendered, but only a reasonable compensation for that actually rendered. Bonds 58 k 106 58 Bonds 58IV Performance or Breach of Condition 58k106 k. Excuses for Nonperformance. Most Cited Cases A. gave his bond to B. to secure the payment of one year's rent of a house to be used by C. A. paid one-half the amount, and B. agreed with C. to give him (C.) the other half of the amount for professional services to be rendered in a suit in which B. was a party.  C. performed part of the services, and died. Held, that the agreement between B. and C. did not release A. from his liability for payment of the balance due on the bond. Contracts 95 k 86 95 Contracts 95I Requisites and Validity 95I(D) Consideration 95k84 Effect of Want or Failure of  Consideration 95k86 k. Partial Want, or Failure. Most Cited  Cases Failure of consideration affects the right to recover pro tanto. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *2 MORRISON leased a house in Lexington to Baylor for one year, for the use of Col. Nicholas, and agreed to give two hundred dollars rent; for the payment of which he executed his obligation. Of this sum Morrison paid one hundred dollars, and Baylor having occasion to employ Nicholas as a lawyer, in a suit then about to be commenced by him against Hart's executor, agreed to give Nicholas the remaining hundred dollars for which Morrison was bound; but before the cause was tried Nicholas died, having done nothing more than draw the bill and give some counsel in relation to the management of the suit. After the death of Nicholas, Baylor still retaining Morrison's obligation for the hundred dollars, instituted suit against him and recovered judgment for the amount, allowing a credit of ten dollars for the services Nicholas had rendered. Morrison by his bill enjoined the proceedings upon the judgment. Upon final hearing the Court below decreed a perpetual injunction, from which decree Baylor appealed. Two questions arise in this case--1. Is Baylor in equity entitled to the money? 2. Is Morrison bound to pay it? 1. That the agreement on the part of Baylor to give the hundred dollars was founded on the expectation that Nicholas would attend to the suit until its decision was had in the Court where it was instituted cannot be doubted. Considering the contract on the part of Baylor as executory, as the performance on the part of Nicholas was prevented by his death, Baylor was indisputably released from the obligation to carry it into effect on his part. Considering it as executed and the hundred dollars in fact paid, there is no principle in the code of morality that would justify Nicholas' representatives in withholding it from Baylor; and our law, founded in moral equity, would authorize Baylor to reclaim it in an action for money paid upon a consideration which had failed. The failure of consideration being only in part may affect the amount to be recovered in such a case but does not change the principle. The right to recover pro tanto is the same that it would be to recover the whole, where there had been a total failure of consideration. 2. In foro legis it is not pretended that Morrison is not bound to pay. The agreement of Baylor with Nicholas was no legal discharge of Morrison's obligation. It was not a payment nor could it operate as a release. To show that in foro conscientiae Morrison is not bound, it ought to have been made to appear that in consequence of the agreement between Baylor and Nicholas, Morrison was prevented from indemnifying himself for the payment of the hundred dollars, which he otherwise would have done. It does not appear that such was the effect of the agreement. But to understand the full force of Morrison's obligation in equity to pay, it ought to be remarked that it appears from the record he is executor for Nicholas. If in his individual right he were not bound in foro conscientiae to the payment of the money, he could not nevertheless be permitted to claim in a Court of Chancery an exemption from a legal obligation to pay, without showing that in his fiduciary capacity he was not equitably bound. This he could have done only by showing that he had no assets of his testator in his hands liable to the payment of Baylor's demand; and not having shown this, we can see no principle which in good conscience entitled him to the relief of a Court of Equity. *3 But Nicholas however was entitled to a compensation for the services actually rendered, and as there is no certain criterion by which the chancellor can ascertain the amount, and as it would be contrary to all rule to leave the amount to be fixed by the arbitrary discretion of Baylor, it is proper that the cause should be remanded for the purpose of having the amount ascertained by the verdict of a jury. It is therefore decreed and ordered by the Court that the decree of the Court below be reversed and set aside, and that the cause be remanded to said Court, who are hereby directed to cause a jury to be empanneled and sworn, to ascertain the amount of the compensation to which Nicholas was entitled for the services rendered under the agreement with Baylor, and that the said Court do decide that the injunction be made perpetual for so much, and dissolved as to the residue. The appellant to recover the cost of the appeal. Ky.App. 1810. Baylor v. Morrison 2 Bibb 103, 5 Ky. 103, 1810 WL 660 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
