(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 51,  19 Ky. 51 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1190 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Tribble v. Frame. Nov. 15, 1825. *1 Sheriff's Return. Habere Facias Possessionem. Restitution. ERROR TO THE CLARKE CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 344 161 Execution 161XII Return 161k342 Operation and Effect 161k344 k. Conclusiveness. Most Cited Cases A sheriff's return on the execution of a writ for possession afterwards quashed, on which a writ of restitution was awarded, cannot be questioned in a motion at a subsequent term to quash the writ of restitution. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Statement. This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Clarke circuit court, overruling a motion of the plaintiff in error, to quash a writ of restitution awarded in favor of the defendant, at a previous term of the court, upon quashing a writ of habere facias possessionem, which had been returned by the sheriff executed. Sundry grounds were taken by the plaintiff, on his motion in the court below, to quash the writ of restitution, but they may all be reduced to two classes. 1st. such as question the truth of the sheriff's return upon the writ of habere facias possessionem; and 2nd. such as question the correctness of the decision of the court, at its former term, in quashing the habere facias possessionem, and awarding the writ of restitution. Grounds of the motion to quash a writ of restitution. The grounds of the first of these classes, evidently can not be sustained, for so high is the verity of the sheriff's return regarded in law, that in general no averment is admitted against it, and although there are exceptions to this general rule, none of these exceptions apply to a case of this sort, where it is attempted to question the sheriff's return, in a proceeding in the same case in which the return has been made, as was held by this court, in the case of Smith v. Hornbeck, 3 Marshall, 392. Sheriff's return of the execution of a writ of habere facias possessionem, afterwards quashed, on which a writ of restitution was awarded, can not be questioned in a motion, at a subsequent term, to quash the writ of restitution. Nor are we of opinion that the grounds of the second class can be sustained. The adjudication of the court, quashing the habere facias possessionem, and awarding the writ of restitution, was final in its nature, and having been rendered at a former term of the court, it ceased to have any power over the judgment, and, if erroneous, the proper remedy was, not by motion to that court, but by a writ of error to this. The circuit court, therefore, correctly overruled the plaintiff's motion, and the judgment must be affirmed with costs. In such case, the correctness of the judgment quashing the writ of habere facias possessionem, and awarding the writ of restitution can not be enquired into. Haggin, for plaintiff; Hanson for defendant. Ky.App. 1825. Tribble v. Frame 3 T.B.Mon. 51, 19 Ky. 51, 1825 WL 1190 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
