(Cite as: 3 Bibb 369,  6 Ky. 369 (Ky.),  1814 WL 794 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Stephenson v. Bannister. Jul. 8, 1814. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 35 157 Evidence 157I Judicial Notice 157k35 k. Laws of Other States. Most Cited Cases The courts will not take judicial notice of the laws of the other states, but they must be proved in the same manner as other facts. Evidence 157 k 348(2) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k346 Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of Other  States 157k348 Requisites of Exemplification or  Certificate 157k348(2) k. Judicial Acts, Records, and  Proceedings. Most Cited Cases A record of another state, attested by the clerk, with the seal of the court annexed, together with the certificate of two judges that it is in due form, wherein one states himself to be the judge "that presided, and one of the judges of the superior courts of law of said state," and the other, "the senior judge of the courts of law of the state," was held not to be sufficiently authenticated to be admissible in evidence under the act of congress of 1790. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 ON the trial of this cause in the Court below the plaintiff offered in evidence a copy of a record from the Court of the District of the Union, in South Carolina. The copy was attested by the clerk, with the seal of the Court annexed, and the attestation was certified by two judges to be in due form. One of the judges states himself to be the judge "that presided, and one of the judges of the Superior Courts of Law of said State;" the other judge states himself to be "the senior judge of the Courts of Law of the State of South Carolina." Record of another State attested by the clerk, with the seal of the Court annexed together with the certificate of two judges to be in due form. One states himself to be the judge "that presided, and one of the judges of the Superior Courts of Law of said State." The other states himself to be "the senior judge of the Courts of Law of said State." Authentication not sufficient and cannot be used as evidence. The laws of sister States are matters of fact, of which proof must be made. The defendant objected to the admission of the copy as evidence, and the Court sustained the objection. The question now to be decided is, whether the Court erred in the rejection of the record as evidence? This question depends upon the sufficiency of its authentication. By the Constitution of the United States Congress has power to prescribe the manner in which the public acts, records and judicial proceedings in the several States shall be proved in any other State; and by an act of May, 1790, Congress has declared that the records and judicial proceedings of the Courts of any State shall be proved or admitted in any other Court in the United States by the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the Court annexed, if there be a seal, together with the certificate of the judge, chief justice or presiding magistrate, as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due form. It cannot be admitted that under this act any judge of any Court of the State may certify a record. It must be the judge, if there be but one, or if there be more then the chief justice or presiding judge or magistrate of the Court from whence the record comes, and he must possess that character at the time he gives the certificate. If this be the correct construction of the act (and it is clearly susceptible of no other) it is obvious that neither of the judges who have certified the record in question, has given himself the character which would authorize him to authenticate the record by his certificate. The statement in the first certificate that the judge who gave it was the judge "that presided," implies rather that he was not, than that he was the presiding judge of the Court from whence the record came, at the time he gave the certificate; and the statement "that he was one of the judges of the Superior Courts of Law," certainly cannot import that he was a judge, much less the sole judge, chief justice, or presiding judge of that Court. The certificate of the other judge "that he was the senior judge of the Courts of Law" of his State, so far from implying that he possessed the character which would authorize him to give such a certificate, does not even indicate that he had any relation to the Court from whence the record came. *2 Cases no doubt may occur, as was supposed in the argument, in which no judge can with truth or propriety, except at particular times, be denominated the judge, chief justice, or presiding judge or magistrate of a particular Court; as where different judges constitute the same Court at different times by rotation, an instance of which is to be found in the organization of the general Court of this State. But it does not follow that any judge of a Court thus organized may certify a record when he is not the judge, chief justice, or presiding judge, because he had been before, or might be thereafter possessed of that character. The only inconvenience that results from cases of that kind, is the delay that in some instances must occur in waiting until some judge is qualified by his situation to give the requisite certificate. This inconvenience though perhaps of more frequent occurrence, is not greater than may be produced in other cases by the absence, death, resignation or removal of a judge; and these are cases evidently not provided for by the act of Congress. Whether they were not foreseen, or were intentionally omitted, cannot be certainly told, nor is it material, for in neither case is it competent for a Court to supply the defect. But were it admitted in the cases that are put, where there is no judge at the time the record is authenticated possessing the character of the judge, chief justice or presiding judge, that any judge who by the organization of the Court might in rotation become possessed of that character, would be authorized to certify the record, still we could not know that the Court from where the record in this case comes, was so organized. The laws of a sister State are clearly not matters of law here, of which the Courts must be presumed to have a knowledge. From the nature of things, they must be mere matters of fact, and must be proved like other facts by competent testimony; but of the laws of South Carolina upon this subject no evidence was produced in the Court below, and none can be admitted in this Court which was not produced in the inferior Court. We are, therefore, of opinion that the record was correctly rejected as evidence in the Court below. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Stephenson v. Bannister 3 Bibb 369, 6 Ky. 369, 1814 WL 794 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
