(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 23,  8 Ky. 23 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1131 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gabriel Keith v. Ropert Patton. Oct. 16, 1817. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 129(5) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k129 Part Performance in General 185k129(5) k. Payment of Price in General. Most Cited  Cases Suit will not lie for failing to convey land verbally sold, though part of the purchase money has been paid. Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 138(1) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k138 Contracts Implied by Law on Part Performance 185k138(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where property delivered as part payment of the purchase price of land sold by parol is detained by the vendor, who refuses to complete the contract, there is no implied promise on his part to pay its value, and hence the purchaser's remedy is detinue or trover, and not assumpsit. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 342 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(B) Actions for Breach of Contract 400k342 k. Nature and Form. Most Cited  Cases A partial payment having been made, in property, for a verbal contract to convey land, and the vendor having failed to convey, the remedy to recover for the property is trover, and not assumpsit. CHIEF JUSTICE BOYLE DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of assumpsit. Two counts were laid in the declaration. The first is founded upon a special contract for land, which the defendant agreed to sell to the plaintiff for l100, in property, a part of which was paid in three horses, the residue to be paid at a future day, and the conveyance to be made thereafter upon request. The second count is upon an indebitatus assumpsit for a hundred pounds worth of horses, sold and delivered by the plaintiff to the defendant. Issues were joined upon the pleas of non-assumpsit, and the statute of limitations. On the trial the plaintiff proved, by parol evidence, the contract as laid in the first count, and a refusal of the defendant when requested to convey the land or to restore the property he had received. On the application of the defendant, the court instructed the jury that the plaintiff could not recover upon the first count, there being no written evidence of the contract; and that the proof did not support the second count, and the jury having rendered a verdict accordingly, a judgment was thereupon entered for the defendant, from which the plaintiff has appealed to this court. The only question is, whether the court erred in the instructions given to the jury. That the action could not be maintained upon the first count, is evident; because, to do so without written evidence of the contract would be directly contrary to the express provision of the statute against frauds and perjuries, and that the proof did not authorize a recovery upon the second count, we think equally clear; for as there was an express contract to receive the horses in payment for land, there can be no room for a presumption that the defendant had agreed, or assumed to pay their price in money. On his refusal to convey the land agreeable to his contract, he was no doubt bound to restore the horses, and on his failure to do so, the plaintiff might have recovered either the horses themselves, in an action of detinue, or damages for their conversion, in an action of trover. For as the horses were delivered to the defendant upon a contract which could not be legally enforced, and which, by his failure to comply with, it had become void, it is plain that the case can not, in legal contemplation, differ from an ordinary case of bailment, in which, if the thing bailed or delivered be not not restored when demanded, the appropriate remedy is either by an action of detinue or trover. *2 A suit will not lie for failing to convey land verbally sold, tho' part of the payment has been made. A partial payment in property being made under such contract, trover and not assumpsit, is the appropriate remedy. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1817. Keith v. Patton 1 A.K.Marsh. 23, 8 Ky. 23, 1817 WL 1131 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
