(Cite as: 3 Bibb 76,  6 Ky. 76 (Ky.),  1813 WL 602 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Pryor v. Linsey. May 31, 1813. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 465 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k461 Declaration, Complaint, or Petition 56k465 k. Consideration. Most Cited Cases The holder of an order drawn on a particular fund cannot maintain an action thereon against the drawer, without the averment of a consideration. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge LOGAN absent. *1 THIS was an action upon the case, brought by the defendant in error, as the payee, against the plaintiff in error as the drawer of the following instrument: "Sir--Pay to James Linsey, the money that you were to collect of Samuel Prior for me the sum $50," etc. The declaration alleges the presentment of this instrument to the person to whom it was addressed; his refusal to pay, and the assumpsit of the plaintiff in error; but there is no averment of any contract or consideration upon which the instrument was founded. An order drawn on a particular fund, will not uphold an action by the holder against, the drawer without an averment of a consideration. The plaintiff in error demurred generally, and upon the demurrer judgment was given against him, to which he prosecutes this writ of error. The instrument declared on is evidently not of that description which can legally constitute the basis or substratum of the action, without an averment of a consideration. It is not a specialty, because it is not sealed; it is not a promissory note, because it contains no promise, either express or implied; and it is not a bill of exchange, because it is payable out of a particular fund. Unless the instrument were of one of these descriptions, it could not properly be declared on as the foundation of the action. The declaration is therefore substantially defective, and the demurrer to it ought to have been sustained. The judgment must be reversed, with costs, and the cause remanded, that the Court below may enter a judgment upon the demurrer for the defendant in that Court. Ky.App. 1813. Prior v. Linsey 3 Bibb 76, 6 Ky. 76, 1813 WL 602 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
