(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 21,  10 Ky. 21 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1145 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thomas Bodley v. David Hernden. Oct. 26, 1820. *1 AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE MASON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Boundaries 59 k 36(5) 59 Boundaries 59II Evidence, Ascertainment, and Establishment 59k34 Admissibility of Evidence 59k36 Documentary Evidence 59k36(5) k. Records of Surveys and Maps. Most Cited  Cases A surveyor's report is evidence as to facts he can officially notice, but is no evidence as to extraneous matter. Boundaries 59 k 8 59 Boundaries 59I Description 59k8 k. Location of Lines. Most Cited Cases Where an old boundary line was run according to the magnetic meridian, it should form the boundary, regardless of subsequent variation. Boundaries 59 k 8 59 Boundaries 59I Description 59k8 k. Location of Lines. Most Cited Cases A line run shortly after the date of an entry, with an intent to execute a survey thereon, and pursued when the survey was afterwards actually made, is evidence of the magnetic variation at the date of the entry, and will form the boundary, regardless of a subsequent variation from the true meridian. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Bodley having obtained a decree in the court below, sustaining his entry, asurvey was directed on the return of the report, by which the interference was shown, the question arose between the true and magnetic meridian, or rather between his old line and the present direction of the magnet. The entry of Bodley calls to run from his beginning north, twelve hundred and sixty-four poles and nine-tenths of a pole, and thence east, twenty-five hundred and twenty-nine poles and eight-tenths. This line, running east, produces the interference with the defendants, a considerable distance from the north east eagle of the survey. The survey of the defendants is small, when compared to that of Bodley. To run with the true meridian north and then east, his survey includes all or nearly all of the defendant's land. To run with his old line, somewhat less is included; and to run by the present magnetic line, far less is included than by either of the other modes. The surveyor laid down the survey in each mode, and showed the different interferences thus produced, together with the variation. A line run shortly after the date of an entry with an intent to execute a survey thereon, and pursued when the survey was afterwards actually made, is evidence of the magnetic variation at the date of the entry, and shall form the boundary, regardless of a subsequent variation or the true meridian. The court below adopted the present magnetic line, and decreed accordingly, disregarding the other modes of surveying; to reverse which decree, this writ of error is prosecuted. If the true meridian was the true position, which ought to have been given to the original survey, it is evident, that Bodley can have no claim to run to that line, because his old survey did not go to it, and he cannot be entitled to a decree for any land which his ancient survey did not include. If, however, the magnetic line at the date of the entry is to govern as was intimated by this court in the case of  Vance against Marshall, 3 Bibb, 148, then his old line may set up a formidable claim, when opposed by the present magnetic line; and if this ancient survey was made according to that line, no good reason can be given why he should not be allowed to recover to it. It seems evident, from the facts in the cause, that the old line is truly shown from A. to 14 running north, and that the line east from 14 to 21 is at right angles thereto. It is proved that Tebbs, in the year 1784 started from the beginning and made a considerable part of the survey; but from some cause or other not explained did not finish it. In the year 1796, Payne made the survey and swears that in doing so he pursued the old marked line then existing on the ground, and according to them the survey has been reported in the cause. To impeach this, the defendant's counsel caused the surveyor to state sundry declarations of Payne, the original surveyor. The report of the surveyor is not evidence of these statements, nor can it prove that these statements were ever made. It is true that the report of the surveyor made under an order in a cause is evidence; but it is only so with regard to such facts as he can report officially; such as the existence of objects found by him existing on the ground, and their identity as shown to him by others. But he is not authorized to report the sayings and doings of others, touching the merits of the controversy, and thereby introduce them into the cause as good evidence. The same may be said with regard to his reporting the acts of Fulton, another surveyor, and the fact stated by him, that the compass which he used in making the survey, was the same which made the original. These facts must be disregarded in giving a decision in this cause. It is plain that the old line run in 1784, only one year after the entry was made, varied eastwardly from the true meridian. It is also shown that the variation has progressed still more eastwardly since; for the present magnetic line presents a still greater variation. As it was usual in this country to make original surveys by the magnetic meridian, as is evidenced by most of the plats and certificates and numerous resurveys which have come before this court, we think it fair to presume, in addition to the facts already stated that the line of 1784 came nearer the magnetic line at the time the entry was made than any other; and this having been adopted by the surveyor, Payne, when he completed the survey, we conceive that Bodley is entitled to the full benefit of this line now; and that the court ought to have decreed in his favor according to that position given on the plat, as the one which he, at least, was entitled to. *2 A surveyor's report is evidence as to facts he can officially notice; but is no evidence as to the extraneous matter. The decree below must therefore be reversed with costs, and directions are given to enter it there according to the position of the survey adopted by this opinion. Bibb for appellant. Ky.App. 1820. Bodley v. Hernden 3 A.K.Marsh. 21, 10 Ky. 21, 1820 WL 1145 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
