(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 170,  10 Ky. 170 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1188 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Henry Crist v. Joseph Brashiers. Dec. 13, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE BULLITT CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 385 150 Equity 150VIII Hearing, Submission of Issues to Jury, and Rehearing 150k385 k. Reception of Evidence. Most Cited Cases Exhibits referred to and made part of the pleadings may be proved ore tenus on leave granted, but papers forming no part of the pleadings cannot be so proved. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a suit in chancery, in which a decree was rendered for a sum of money against the present plaintiff in error. On the trial of the cause in the court below, the counsel for the complainant in that court, the now defendant in error, offered in evidence sundry receipts and orders, which were not made exhibits as part of the pleadings in the cause, and no where relied on. But they are evidence conducing to establish a fact of payment, charged in the bill. To prove these writings, one deposition was taken and filed, in which the witness swore that they were in the handwriting of the defendant below. This proof was evidently not sufficient to warrant the reading of the papers; for the witness did not swear that he ever saw the plaintiff in error write, or that he had the means or opportunity of knowing his handwriting. To the reading these papers, the counsel for the plaintiff in error objected, because they were not proved; whereupon the court, on the application of the counsel for the defendant in error, admitted witnesses at the bar to depose ore tenus to genuineness of the receipts. To the admission of that testimony the plaintiff in error objected; but his objections were overruled, and the witnesses sworn. An exception was taken, and this presents the first question to be considered; and if it be for the plaintiff, it precludes the necessity of traveling into the merits of this decree. Exhibits composing a part of the pleadings in a chancery cause, may, upon leave given, be proved ore tenus at the trial; but evidence depending on writing, but forming no part of the pleadings, can not be so proved. This court has already decided that such testimony may be admitted to prove exhibits referred to and made part of the pleadings, on obtaining a previous order of court for leave to introduce such testimony; but the question now is, shall this practice be extended to papers offered in evidence previous filed in the cause, or pulled from the pocket of the party, the existence of which were never before noticed or alleged in the pleadings? To apply the rule to papers relied on in the pleadings, which the opposite party has had the opportunity of contesting by counter pleadings, appears reasonable under proper restrictions. But to extend it to papers, of the existence of which the opposite party was not, and could not, be previously advised, we conceive it dangerous, and might frequently ensnare the adverse party, and subject him to the effects of great surprise, from which he could not extricate himself. However able he might be to prove that the papers offered were not genuine, he could not be expected to be prepared with witnesses for the purpose. It is not shewn whether these papers had ever been filed in the cause. But if they had been, we do not conceive it would aid the case. The bare filing of them did not compel the party to use them, and his adversary could not know that he would do so, till they were offered on the trial. We therefore conceive the court below erred in admitting this proof. We however do not deem it proper to exclude these papers and retry the cause without them. Had the court below decided differently, the cause was still in the power of that court, and, on good cause shewn, the court might have continued it for proper testimony; in such case we conceive it is the proper practice to reverse the decree with costs, and remand the cause for new proceedings. Littell, for plaintiff; B. Hardin and Hardin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1820. Crist v. Brashiers 3 A.K.Marsh. 170, 10 Ky. 170, 1820 WL 1188 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
