(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 573,  21 Ky. 573 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1609 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kellar's Ex'ors v. Beelor, Beelor v. Kellar's Ex'ors. Oct. 11, 1827. *1 Executors. Distributees. Parties. Husband and Wife. Auditors. Practice. Error. Interest. ERROR TO THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT, JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 115 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k115 k. Individual Interest in Transactions. Most Cited  Cases An administrator or executor will not be allowed to speculate on the estate. Executors and Administrators 162 k 438(11) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k438 Parties 162k438(11) k. Action to Recover Legacy or Distributive Share.  Most Cited Cases The executor, and not the children, of a son dying after his father, is entitled to recover the son's distributive share of his father's goods and chattels, and must be a party to a bill for distribution. Executors and Administrators 162 k 438(11) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k438 Parties 162k438(11) k. Action to Recover Legacy or Distributive Share.  Most Cited Cases A distributee who has sold out his interest need not be made a party to a bill for distribution. Husband and Wife 205 k 11(2) 205 Husband and Wife 205I Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities 205k7 Property of Wife 205k11 Reduction to Possession by Husband 205k11(2) k. Necessity of Reduction to Possession. Most  Cited Cases Choses in action of a wife, not reduced to possession by the husband in his lifetime, survive to her. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a suit in chancery, brought by the widow of Charles Beelor, deceased, against his administrator, to have an account and distribution of his estate. It was once before in this court, and reversed on the prayer of the administrator, because the rest of the distributees were not parties, either as complainants or defendants. In a bill by distributee against an executor for distribution, all the distributees must be made parties, complainant or defendant. On the return of the cause to the court below, an attempt was made to bring the necessary parties before the court; the accounts were referred to an auditor who reported thereon, and final decree was again entered in favor of the complainant, from which both parties have appealed. Proceeding below after the return of the cause by the mandate of this court. It is again insisted by the administrator, that the proper parties were not all completely brought before the court, at the trial of the cause. The administrator himself, is a distributee, and the remaining distributees at the death of the father, were Nathaniel Beelor, Charles Beelor, jr., Thomas Beelor, George Beelor, and Charles B. Lemaster, the son of a daughter who died before her father. Thomas and Charles are non-residents, and publication was made against them as such. George Beelor has answered. Lemaster died before the hearing of the cause, and devised all his estate to John B. Lemaster, and constituted him the executor, and he has appeared and answered the bill. The only difficulty that occurs with regard to these parties arises with respect to Nathaniel Beelor. He died after the return of the cause from this court, to the court below, and during its pendency. *2 Statement of the parties and distributees. A bill to revive made his children, as his heirs, parties, omitting the personal representative. Before the final hearing, one of these children died, and the cause as to that child abated. The defendant, the administrator, objected to trial, unless the cause was revived against the representatives of that child. The complainants refused to revive, and the court below decided it to be unnecessary. We should have no hesitation in deciding that after the death of Nathaniel Beelor, the cause was improperly revived, and that the proper parties were not before the court, because his children or heirs were not, but his personal representatives alone were the proper parties, if it was not for another circumstance which we apprehend renders it unnecessary to have made either Nathaniel Beelor or his represeentative parties. Executor, and not the children of a son dying after his father, are entitled to recover distribution of his goods and chattels, and must be the party to the bill for distribution. It is charged in an amended bill, and tacitly admitted by the answer that the administrator had purchased out, and was entitled to the share of this distributee. Distributee who had sold his whole interest, need not be made party to a bill for distribution. And what is more conclusive, the county court had made a previous distribution of this estate, and therein asigned to the administrator the portion of Nathaniel Beelor, by virtue of his purchase, with the approbation of all concerned. This being a matter of which the county court had jurisdiction, and the fact being confessed, we do not hesitate to say, that it rendered it wholly unnecessary to make Nathaniel Beelor or his representatives parties, and there was consequently no error in proceeding without them. Executors' settlement with the county court. Another objection to the parties, who are complainants must next be noticed. During the pendency of this long controversy, the widow, who was step mother of the administrator, and who was at first the sole complainant, intermarried with Joseph Kellar, in whose name the cause was revived and long continued in the name of himself and wife. He at length died, and by his will appointed executors. His widow next died, and by her will constituted an executor, and the cause was then revived by bill of revivor, in the names both of the executors of the husband and the wife, and on the final hearing, a joint decree was rendered, in favor of the executors of both, for the balance due. Distributive share of the widow in her first husband's estate, in his executor's hands, will be owned by the survivor of her and her second husband, and go to the executors of such survivors alone. It was erroneous to decree to the executors of the husband, the amount due from the administrator. It was a chose in action, belonging to the wife on the marriage, and was never reduced to possession during the marriage, consequently, at the death of either, on well settled principles, it passed to the representatives of the husband, if he survived, or to the wife as survivor, and the wife being the survivor, her representatives alone, were entitled thereto. *3 But although the representatives of the husband were not entitled to this decree for the balance to be recovered, yet we can not admit that they were not proper parties. The wife, before the marriage had purchased sundry articles, at the sale of the estate of the deceased, and had hired the slaves belonging to the estate, and the administrator had recovered judgments at law, for these articles purchased, and the hire, and also a decree of this court for a considerable amount of costs on the former reversal. Some one, or more of these judgments and decreee were rendered against the husband, and he had obtained an injunction, and entered into the injunction bond, for the purpose of obtaining a discount for the amount, against what was due from the administrator. It was therefore proper that the executors of the husband should be made parties, for the purpose of obtaining relief against these judgments, in which the husband was jointly bound with the wife, so that thereby, the husband's estate might be discharged from these responsibilities incurred, arising from this same estate of the wife. The error therefore, only consists in extending the decree in favor of the husband's executors, to the recovery of the balance due, after these judgments and decree was discounted, and it is such an error as according to the established practice of this court, can be corrected, and the cause be returned with directions to correct the decree in this respect, and there is no necessity imposed of opening the cause entirely, and sending it back for new proceedings on this account. Held the executors of the husband were here necessary parties to be relieved against certain judgments against him and the wife executrix in their lives. This leads us to an inquiry into the merits of the controversy, in which we shall consider the appeal of both parties together. The proceedings of the court below, were not strictly proper, and according to the rules of chancery in settling the account. That court, on the first hearing, did not decide a single question, as directory to the auditor, but barely directed him to take the settlement of the county court as the basis of the settlement; to disallow the items impeached, surcharged and falsified, and to add thereto, where the proof justified it, thus attempting to delegate to the auditor judicial powers. But as the court acted upon the account, after the report, made out, and sustained all but a few items, which were expunged on exceptions this irregularity in the reference, can not be made a ground of reversal. Order referring the cause to an auditor, irregularly without proper instructions; his report; exceptions and decision of the court on the account, which cured the irregularities. It is objected by the administrator that the account settled by him with the county court was much garbled by the commissioner, and almost wholly disregarded in the settlement. To this we answer that the settlement with the county court, was only prima facie evidence in his favor, and the complainants have been successful in impeaching it by testimony, and we can not say that he has been charged with more than the testimony in the cause will warrant, nor has he lost any credits to which he was fairly entitled. Add to this, part of his settlement with the county court was made after this suit was commenced, and that part was not, according to former decisions, even prima facie evidence for him. *4 Settlement with the county court before the suit in chancery, prima facie evidence; otherwise of a settlement made pending the bill. One thing in which the settlement with the county court is corrected will be noticed. The deceased held a lease-hold estate on which were sundry furnaces for making salt, and these, after his death, were leased by the administrator for considerable rent payable in salt. The administrator charged himself with the usual or highest cash rent of these furnaces, and received the salt, and therewith paid the debts of the estate, and charged the estate with the salt at two dollars per bushel, and thereby the salt greatly exceeded the rent with which he was charged. This was a speculation on the estate which can not be indulged, and the administrator is not entitled to pocket the proceeds, but they must result to the benefit of the whole estate, and in this respect, the account was properly corrected. Executor shall account for the value of the commodity for which he let, and which was paid him as rent, for a lease-hold estate, and not for a lease-hold estate, and not for the fair cash rent only of the premises, being less than the value of the commodity--he shall not speculate on the estate. We will also add, that in several instances where the decedent owed debts and had paid a part or the whole in his life time, and the administrator settled these accounts, and took receipts for the whole, and he had charged the full amount of these receipts against the estate, which was highly improper. Nor do we perceive any error against him in the opinion of the court below, in deciding on the exceptions of the administrator to the report of the commissioners; but the contrary is true as regards one item. It is charged in one of the amended bills, that there was a debt due in Virginia, to the decedant's estate, arising from the sale of a tract of land belonging to his widow, then his wife, and that the administrator was proceeding to collect, or had collected it. He answers, admits the existence of the debt, and that he had attempted to recover it, but was prevented by the interposition of the complainant, and admits he had obtained judgment for the amount and expected to collect it. Afterwards an amended bill is filed which charges specially, that he has collected that debt, and that the amount thereof is fifteen hundred dollars, which they pray may be taken into the account. To this amended bill he makes no answer, and it is taken as confessed. The commissioner reported the charge against him for fifteen hundred dollars. In his exceptions to the report, without any affidavit or proof, he contests the amount of this demand, and alleges it to be only $1,000 instead of $1,500. And as far as this court can discover, on the credit of this exception alone, which appears to be the act of counsel, the court below struck from the report $500 of this charge. This decision we can not admit to be correct. The amount which he did not contest or deny by answer, must be taken as true against him; of course in this exception, he got more and the other party less than the rules of equity would allow. The remaining exceptions appear to be correctly decided. *5 Charge made in an amended bill, not denied in the answer, and allowed by the auditor, improperly reduced by the circuit judge, on a mere exception to the report without proof. One other point made by the complainant below, must be noticed. It is charged in the original bill and distinctly admitted in the answer of the administrator, that before suit brought, a demand was made of him, and bond and security tendered, conditional to refund a due proportion of debts, which might thereafter arise, and the costs attending the recovery thereof. It is now insisted that under these circumstances the administrator ought to be charged with interest. To charge the personal representative with interest, is not a matter of course, but it is often done, especially when he has received interest, or when he ought to distribute, and fails to do, so, on a proper demand. To charge an executor with interest on the shares of the distributees, is not a matter of course____ But-- Executor may be charged with interest where he has recovered interest, or where he ought to distribute and fails to do so on proper demand. In this case the demand has been a proper one. The reason assigned why he did not comply with it is, that at the time there was little or nothing left, and that there were demands pressing the estate by suit, which would be sufficient to cover any balance which he had unadministered. It now turns out that, allowing him credit for all these debts, and any that have appeared during the long pendency of this controversy, (many of which he has not yet paid), there is upwards of $7,000 for distribution. This was concealed by his erroneous settlement with the county court, and he has opposed and delayed this suit, by a perseverance bordering on obstinacy, till it has outlived many of its parties. Under such circumstances we conceive the court below ought to have allowed interest in favor of the complainants. The amount due ought first to be ascertained as principal. On this the judgments at law, which are for articles purchased at the sale and for hire of slaves, and which are to be perpetually enjoined, ought to be credited, not at their amount as swelled by interest, but at their principal only. On the balance, if any, interest must be charged against the administrator, till the date of the decree of this court for costs, which is then to be credited, and interest to be continued till the date of the decree; interest is to be calculated on the widow's share of the $1,500 received in Virginia, commencing at the date of filing the amended bill, which charges the reception thereof. On the contrary, if when the judgment at law for negro hire and articles purchased at the sale shall be credited, as before directed, the balance shall be in favor of the administrator, interest must be calculated on that balance till the reception of the money in Virginia. Interest allowed against the executor on the circumstances here, and directions for the computation. *6 We would barely add that the question was made and seriously pressed on the court, in the argument that the widow or her representatives were entitled to dower in the whole slaves in preference to creditors, or exclusive of debts. We can not see how the question can occur here. It was not necessary to sell slaves for the payment of debts, and for those which the administrator did sell, he has been compelled to account for hire, as if he still held them, so that the widow really gets her dower of all the slaves. Widow's interest in the slaves of which her husband dies the owner. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded with directions to enter such decree, as shall conform to the opinion of this court, and each appellant must recover the costs of their respective appeals. Denny, for Kellar; Grayson, for Beelor. Ky.App. 1827. Kellar v. Beelor 5 T.B.Mon. 573, 21 Ky. 573, 1827 WL 1609 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
