(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 154,  22 Ky. 154 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1656 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Fenwick v. Ratliff's Representatives. Oct. 31, 1827. *1 Usury. Mortgages. Tender. Rents. Practice. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Usury 398 k 104 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(B) Rights and Remedies of Parties 398k104 k. Waiver or Release of Usury in General. Most Cited  Cases It is competent for a mortgagor, of whom usury has been exacted, to waive it, in whole or in part. Usury 398 k 115 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(B) Rights and Remedies of Parties 398k112 Evidence 398k115 k. Parol Evidence. Most Cited  Cases Parol evidence is admissible to vary or contradict a written document introduced to support a usurious contract. Interest 219 k 50 219 Interest 219III Time and Computation 219k48 Suspension 219k50 k. Tender. Most Cited Cases In general a tender stops the running of interest. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. On the 21st day of November, 1807, Fenwick the plaintiff in error, conveyed to Francis Ratliff, a farm of 230 acres of land, by absolute deed of conveyance and delivered him possession thereof. Fenwick's conveyance to Ratliff. On the 27th day of December, 1825, Ratliff having previously died, Fenwick tendered to his administrator $1010, and demanded a reconveyance of the land, alleging that the original deed, though absolute and expressing the consideration of $1000, was intended, and agreed by the parties thereto, to be a mortgage or security for money. The tender, and the conveyance were both refused. Fenwick contends the transaction was a mortgage; tenders the money and demands a re-conveyance, Which Ratliff refuses. On the 11th July, 1816, Fenwick filed his bill insisting that the sum of $1010, was loaned to him by Ratliff, and the land conveyed as a security. That the rents were in the meantime to extinguish and discharge the interest; that these rents far exceeded legal interest, and setting forth the tender and offering to let the rents remain as an offset against the interest up to the time the tender was made, and afterwards he insists on a discharge from the interest and an account of the rents. Bill for a redemption and an account of the rents. The heirs and administrator of Ratliff demurred to this bill, and the demurrer was argued, and while the court held the same under advisement, Fenwick amended his bill, insisting on the same charges, and also admitting Ninian Edwards as a complainant, and both he and Edwards alleges that previous to the conveyance to Ratliff, he, Fenwick, had sold by executory contract, part of the same land to Uriah Edwards, who had sold the same to Ninian Edwards, and that Ratliff had complete notice of the equity of Uriah and Ninian Edwards, before he took the conveyance from Fenwick. *2 Demurrer to the bill argued, and then an amendment introducing a new complaint. The heirs of Ratliff demurred to this bill also. The court, then sustained the demurrer to the original bill, but did not dismiss it then, and overruled the demurrer as to the amendment. Demurrer sustained to the original, but overruled as to the amended bill. Ratliff's heirs answered, denying all the equity of both bills, and on a final hearing the court dismissed the bill, as to the equity of Ratliff, and sustained the equity of Edwards, derived from Fenwick, and decreed to him a conveyance to that part of the land claimed by the contract of Uriah Edwards. Decree of the circuit court. Fenwick has prosecuted his writ of error, assigning for error the dismission of his complaint, and the refusal of the court to permit him to redeem. Fenwick's assignment of error. We will not stop to expatiate on the impropriety of the court sustaining the demurrer to one part of the bill, and overruling it as to the other, as the original bill ought to have been sustained, because it contained a good ground for relief; for although the demurrer was sustained thereto, yet the answer of the defendants put all the matter in issue therein contained, and the bill itself remained till the final hearing, and the demurrer was treated by the parties as if it had been overruled. Original bill held sufficient. We conceive the court erred in refusing relief to Fenwick, and in not permitting him to redeem the whole land; because the proof sufficiently establishes a loan, and that the right to redeem was reserved to Fenwick, by the mutual agreement and understanding of the parties. Held the proof established the transaction a mortgage. Whatever difficulties may exist against the introduction of the parol evidence, to reduce an absolute deed to a mortgage, none can arise in a case where usury is alleged and proved. It is the effect of the statutes against usury, to admit such evidence to vary or alter the terms of a written instrument, and to expunge from it all that is usurious. Mingling usury with the sound part of a contract, always presents a sufficient apology for the introduction of parol evidence, to overthrow, vary and contradict, any written document, however solemn and formal, introduced as evidence of the contract. The proof here shows a lending, and that the rent of the farm were not less than equal to ten per centum per annum on the money advanced, and that Fenwick was at liberty to redeem at any time on the restoration of the money. Where usury is alleged, it may be proved by parol and then by the like evidence the written instruments of the contract may be contradicted or varied. It was competent for Fenwick to waive the usury either in whole or in part. In his bill, he has waived his claim for any account thereof, and allows the rents to go in satisfaction thereof up to the time of tender. After that he insists upon a cessation of the usury, and indeed of all interest, and an account of the rents. Accordingly at his offer, no account of rents ought to be taken till the day of the tender. But afterwards an account of rents must be taken, deducting necessary reparation of the premises, and the rents set off against the money loaned, and no interest can be allowed on the money loaned after the tender, because that the law as it stood, at the time this contract was made, compelled the lender to accept his principal without interest and to pay costs, and because the tender necessarily stopped the running of interest. *3 Tender of the mortgage money, in an usurious transaction, found in the writings in the form of an absolute sale, stops the running of the interest, and still the usurer shall pay the rents. If the balance should be in favor of Ratliff's estate, Fenwick must be allowed day for the payment or tender thereof, and if he shall fail in complying with the decree, his bill must be dismissed, and if he shall pay or tender the balance, then a decree must be rendered in his favor, for a conveyance, and possession of the land. On the contrary, if the rents exceed the principal, a decree must be entered for a conveyance and the possession, and the balance so formed, with costs. This assessment ought to be made by commissioners appointed according to the course of the court of chancery. Mandate for the decree, and the carrying it into effect. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that such proceedings may be had and decree rendered, as shall not be inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for pl'f; Talbot and Mayes, for def't. Ky.App. 1827. Fenwick v. Ratliff's Representatives 6 T.B.Mon. 154, 22 Ky. 154, 1827 WL 1656 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
