(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 443,  10 Ky. 443 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1124 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Fowler v. Lucy Lewis et al. Jun. 2, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE GREENUP CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 49 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k48 Debts and Rights of Action 162k49 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where the remedy is in damages, the personal representatives and not the heirs of the deceased, are the proper parties to bring the suit. Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 113(2) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185VIII Requisites and Sufficiency of Writing 185k105 Contents of Memorandum 185k113 Statement of Terms and Conditions 185k113(2) k. Necessity That Writing Show All the Terms.  Most Cited Cases A memorandum from which the whole terms of the contract cannot be ascertained without recourse to parol evidence is not sufficient. Equity 150 k 187 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(B) Plea, Answer, and Disclaimer 150k177 Answer 150k187 k. Allegations of New Matter. Most Cited  Cases The pleading of matter in avoidance may be dispensed with, when the opposite party has exhibited enough to show that he cannot recover. Evidence 157 k 417(12) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k417 Matters Not Included in Writing or for Which It Does  Not Provide 157k417(12) k. Contracts of Sale. Most Cited  Cases It is not competent for one claiming the benefit of a written contract for the purchase of land to show that a part only was reduced to writing, and supply such residue by parol evidence. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The defendants in error filed their bill in the court below, alleging that the plaintiff in error had a tract of land patented in his own name in Greenup county, and that he had appointed a certain Thomas Fletcher his agent, with full power and authority to sell and convey all, or most of his lands, and particularly that tract; and that their ancestor had purchased of said agent two hundred and fifty acres thereof, at one dollar per acre; and to prove the sale, they exhibit a letter from the agent, to the following effect: "Dear Sir: Captain Johnson is now with me, and states, that you wish the two hundred and fifty acres laid off in two surveys, so as to include Barnes' improvement and avoid some bad ground. I have no objection to your doing so, as a matter of accommodation, provided Robert Henderson and yourself can agree on the mode of laying off the land. You will please to call on Mr. Young, whom you can request to lay off the land to suit your wishes. I must regret that it will not be in my power to have the pleasure of your company, the ensuing summer; but hope to have the pleasure of your company on Tygart's creek next fall. Should I never return, captain Fowler will convey you the land at any time. I would have sent you a deed by capt. Johnson; but not having the field notes, am precluded from doing so." *2 This letter was signed by the name of the agent, and directed to the ancestor of the defendants in error. They allege that Robert Henderson and their ancestor did agree on the mode of laying off the land, and that Young did survey it in two tracts so as to include Barnes' improvement, and made out the plats, which they exhibit. That their ancestor was, by the contract, to pay at the rate of one dollar per acre, and that the agent drew an order for two hundred and fifty dollars upon their ancestor, in favor of George Johnson, who presented it, and that it was accepted and twenty-three dollars thereof were paid, and that by the acceptance their ancestor became bound for the whole, and the agent was paid. But they offer, if the court should not think this a sufficient payment, to bring the money into court for the acceptance of the plaintiff in error. They pray for a conveyance of the land, and general relief. The bill was taken as confessed, and proof was adduced conducing to shew, that the order in favor of Johnson was discharged, but the order itself is not exhibited. The court below decreed a conveyance; to reverse which decree this writ of error is prosecuted. It is now contended that the contract shewn is not such an one as a court of chancery will specifically enforce, and that by the shewing of the defendant in error, the agreement is embraced by the act of assembly to prevent frauds and perjuries. Independent of any statute, an agreement, which can be the subject of specific execution, must be fair, full and complete in all its parts; and if any part of it was left undefined and incomplete by the parties in their negotiations equity would not supply it, by amending the agreement and adding what the chancellor might deem reasonable and proper. For such supplement would then be the work of the court, and not the act of the parties;--it would be making instead of simply enforcing what was made. Thi?? rulewas equally applicable to the contract, whether it wa?? written or verbal. Since the adoption of the statute, the contract must be in writing, and that writing must be complete in itself. It is not competent for the party, claiming the benefit of such contract, to shew that part only was reduced to writing, and then to supply the residue by parol evidence. The evidence to establish one part of the contract must be of the same grade with that which proves the residue, and that, according to the statute, must be in writing, at least so far as it imposes any obligation on the party to be charged therewith. No person can read the letter relied on, in this instance, and not conceive that it refers to some other agreement or understanding which had previously taken place, and then existed between them The land is referred to as perfectly understood. The ancestor of the defendants was to have it, or was expected to have it, on some terms before made the subject of treaty. What that treaty was, we cannot ascertain, without resorting to parol testimony, for no other writing is referred to a?? containing it. Whether it was a sale or a present, must be proved by the swearing of witnesses. Can such allegation and proof be admitted without violating the statute? We conceive it cannot, and that the complainants below by their own shewing, have not shewn such writing as will authorize a decree in their favor. *3 Independent of the statute of fraud, a contract to be decreed specifically must be fair, full and complete in all its parts, and nothing in the construction left to the discretion of the chancellor. Since the statute of frauds the whole contract relating to the sale of lands must be in writing, and the party claiming the benefit thereof can not supply anything by parol. The circumstance of the defendant below having failed to plead and reply on the statute in that court, cannot alter the case. The pleading of matter in avoidance, may be dispensed with, when the opposite side has exhibited enough to shew that he cannot recover. Suffice it to say that the plaintiff in error did not waive his right to insist upon the statute by admitting the agreement and its terms?? And the defendants in error have presented a case on which the statute has an operation. A defendant below failing to plead the statute, will not justify a specific decree, unless he admits the bargain, or unless the complainant below makes out a case which will justify a decree. Besides, one other circumstance is apparent, which is entitled to weight. The letter proposed an arrangement with Robert Henderson, and then the demarcation of boundary by Young. This arrangement, the ancestor of the defendants in error, was at liberty to accept or reject. No evidence is afforded of either its acceptance or rejection, until about fifteen months afterwards, and after the death of their ancestor, the defendants in error caused the surveyor to demark the land. This delay is not accounted for. And it is as probable as any other conjecture, that the proposed arrangement was not, at first, so acceptable; but that subsequent events, which might be of importance to the plaintiff in error, and might justify him in refusing to be bound by it, had instigated the defendants in error, after so much delay, to lay hold of that arrangement for the first time. When the validity of an agreement depends on a contingency to be performed by the person seeking to set up a contract if there is an unreasonable delay, unaccounted for, a chancellor will not aid. As the defendants in error are not entitled to a decree for the land, the question presents itself, can they have compensation in lieu of it, or any other relief? As we conceive that the contract is embraced by the act to prevent frauds and perjuries, in its origin, it cannot belong to that description which descends to the heir. Covenants, real, generally run with the land and go to the heir and not the personal representative. But this is not a contract of that description. In its first creation it gave to the ancestor of the defendants no right to the land, but only a right to recover back the money paid. The personal representative is therefore entitled to the demand, and as no such representative is a party to this suit, no recovery can be had. Where a contract can not be decreed specifically, and the remedy is in damages, the personal representatives of the party decedent must be parties. *4 The decree must therefore be reversed with costs, and directions to the court below to dismiss the bill with costs. Bibb for appellant. Ky.App. 1821. Fowler v. Lewis 3 A.K.Marsh. 443, 10 Ky. 443, 1821 WL 1124 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
