(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 17,  10 Ky. 17 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1143 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Squires v. Huff. Oct. 27, 1820. West Headnotes Landlord and Tenant 233 k 700 233 Landlord and Tenant 233IV Particular Kinds of Tenancies and Attributes Thereof 233IV(A) Nature and Extent 233IV(A)3 Tenancies at Will and at Sufferance 233k700 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k117) A tenant at will is a tenant from year to year till the will of one or both parties ceases. Landlord and Tenant 233 k 955 233 Landlord and Tenant 233IV Particular Kinds of Tenancies and Attributes Thereof 233IV(F) Termination 233IV(F)5 Landlord's Notice of Termination 233k952 Time 233k955 k. Tenancies at will and at sufferance.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 233k120(2)) Half a year's notice to quit is necessary in all cases of uncertain tenancy, as a tenancy at will. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 This is a warrant of forcible detainer. On the trial in the court below, the plaintiff in the warrant, now appellee, gave in evidence, that he had obtained a judgment in ejectment against the appellant, and afterwards, without a writ of possession, went to the house of the appellee, and requested him to surrender possession. To which he agreed; and with his family, at the order of the appellee, went out of the house, and returned into it by his, the appellee's permission, and then agreed to hold the premises under him; but whether with, or without rent, is not stated; nor for what length of time he was to hold. The appellant continued one year, and after its expiration, the appellee brought this warrant. This being in substance all the evidence in the cause, the jury found a verdict for the appellee. The appellant moved for a new trial, on the ground that the verdict was against law and evidence; and the court overruled the motion, and gave judgment for the appellee-and from that decision this appeal is proved; and the error assigned questions the correctness of the decision of the court in overruling the motion for a new trial. There is some doubt whether the evidence proved the tenancy of the defendant in the warrant, and his entry under the plaintiff, as one witness speaks something about a contemplated purchase, on which the parties disagreed. But we have not thought it necessary to scan the evidence nicely on this point. Because, we are clearly of opinion, that if the evidence did constitute him a tenant, it was at will, which ought to be construed, by numerous decisions, a tenancy from year to year, at the joint will of both, one year of which the tenant in this case had enjoyed. Of course, by a well settled rule of law, the tenant was entitled to six months' notice to quit after the termination of the will of his landlord, before this proceeding could be maintained against him. There having been no proof conducing to shew such notice; and the want of it having been relied on in the motion for a new trial, the court below erred in overruling the motion; and for this cause the decision must be reversed with costs, and the verdict and judgment set aside, with directions for a new trial to be had in the court below, accordant with this opinion. A tenant at will is a tenant from year to year, till the will of one or both parties cease--and tenant is entitled to six months' notice to quit. Ky.App. 1820. Squires v. Huff 3 A.K.Marsh. 17, 10 Ky. 17, 1820 WL 1143 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
