(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 228,  19 Ky. 228 (Ky.),  1826 WL 2186 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Carney (a Colored Man) v. Hampton. May 26, 1826. *1 Slaves. Statutes of New York. Construction. Instructions. APPEAL FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the facts. This is an action of trespass, assault, battery and false imprisonment, brought by a colored person, the plaintiff below, and the issue tried was his freedom or slavery. He was the son of a female slave, sold in the year 1792, in the state of New York, by Philip Lott, a resident of that state, to Gen. Matthews, then a resident of the state of Georgia, and a member of congress from the latter state, Matthews removed the said female to Georgia, and there gave her to his daughter, whose husband afterwards came to Kentucky, and sold her; and the plaintiff was born long since the sale to Matthews and the gift to his daughter. The claim of the plaintiff below rests upon the 5th section of an act of the general assembly of the state of New York, passed the 22d of February, 1788, entitled, "an act concerning slaves," which reads as follows: "And be it further enacted, by the authority aforesaid, that if any person shall at any time, purchase or buy, or shall, as factor or agent to another, take or receive, any slave, with intent to remove, export or carry said slave from this state, to any other place without this state, and there to be sold, the person so purchasing, buying or so as factor or agent, receiving or taking a slave with such intent as aforesaid, shall be deemed to have committed an offense against the people of this state, and shall for every such offense forfeit the sum of one hundred pounds, to be recovered with costs, by any person who will sue for the same, the one moiety to the people of this state, and the other moiety to the use of the person suing for the same; and the slave so purchased, bought, taken or received, shall be, immediately after he or she shall be so purchased, bought, received or taken, and hereby is, declared to be free." Extract from the statute of New York. After some evidence was given by the defendant below, conducing to shew that Matthews, when he bought the slave in New York, intended her for his daughter, the court below instructed the jury-- 1st. That they ought to find for the defendant, unless it was proved to their satisfaction, that Gen. Matthews purchased the mother of the plaintiff in the state of New York, for the purpose or with the intent of selling her again. Instructions of the circuit court. 2ndly. That if they believed that Matthews purchased said negro with intent to give her to his daughter, and not to sell her, they ought to find her the defendant. 3rdly. That if they believed that Matthews, after his purchase of said slave, did not sell her, but gave her to his daughter, they ought to find for the defendant. The jury accordingly found for the defendant, and from the judgment rendered on said verdict, the plaintiff hath appealed. Whatever may be the true construction of the act of the state of New York, as involved in the first and second instructions of the court, the third instruction can not be sustained. It evidently disregards what was the intention of Matthews at the time of his purchase in New York, and supposes, that if his intention was then to remove the slave without that state to sell her, yet if he never executed that intention, and afterwards declined selling her and gave her to his daughter, that fact, per se, deprived the slave purchased, of her freedom secured by the act. *2 The act of N. York of Feb., '83, liberated a slave purchased, &c., with intent to be removed, &c., from the State, &c., to be there sold immediately after the purchase, whether subsequently sold or not. Now, it is evident, from the express words of the act, that the right of the slave to freedom commenced "immediately after" the purchasing, buying, taking or receiving, forbidden by the act; and if the purchasing or buying was done with intention to remove and sell, the freedom of the slave was complete, notwithstanding the purchaser or receiver might thereafter reverse that determination. Such change of intention, could not, thereafter, destroy the right to freedom once vested. But the main question in the cause is involved in the two first instructions given by the court; and it has been debated at the bar as that on which the cause, from the complexion of the evidence, must probably turn. It is insisted for the appellee, that the selling the slave to be exported, whether to be sold or not, comes within the provision of the act, which was intended to restrain all exportation. On the other hand it is contended, that not only an intention to export, but also an intention to sell without the state, after exportation, is necessary; and that, as there was an absence of intention to sell, and a contrary intention appears in the case of Matthews, the slave purchased by him can not be free. The question on the construction of the statute of New York stated. We can not believe that the legislature of New York intended wholly to prevent the exportation of slaves by the act in question, but to prevent exportation for one particular purpose. By the next preceding section, they did intend to lay the importation of slaves under severe restrictions. For it is there enacted, that if any person shall sell any slave brought into the state after a certain period fixed by the act, he shall be liable to severe penalties, and the slaves so sold shall be free. But this provision does not wholly restrain importation. For if any citizen of the state, possessed slaves at any other place without the state, and should bring them into the state, he might keep them but could not sell them. In like manner, if any citizen of another state should remove thither, carrying with him his slaves, he might retain them, but not sell them, any thing in this preceding section notwithstanding. Remarks on the section prohibiting importation of slaves and sales of them in certain cases. In like manner, if any person residing without the state, and becoming entitled to slaves existing in New York, by marriage, descent or devise, there is nothing in the fifth section, on which the appellant relies, to prevent his transporting them from the state of New York to his residence; nor is there any thing in the latter section which prohibits any resident of New York, who held slaves, from moving to any other state or country and taking his slaves with him. Many other cases might be supposed, where both the importation and exportation of slaves were not restrained or forbidden by either of these sections. *3 The act of N. York only prohibited the purchase and exportation of slaves for the purpose of being sold without the state, not their exportation for other purposes. We, therefore, conclude, that neither importation nor exportation was intended to be entirely forbidden by the act; but that the commence or traffic in slaves to and from that state, was that which the legislature intended to restrain. The intention of the act was to restrain traffic in slaves to and from the State. The practice of conveying slaves from one country to another, for the purpose of merchandise and speculation, was the evil to which the remedy was to be applied. Hence the fourth section put an end to bringing slaves into New York for the purpose of selling, by imposing a penalty on the seller and giving the slave his freedom; and acquiring slaves in New York and transporting them for sale else where, was cut off by the fifth section, leaving those importers or exporters who did not intend to make slaves an article of merchandise abroad, but barely to remove them for other purposes, unaffected by the act. Admitting this to be the object of the act, the case of Matthews can not come within it, unless some words or expressions contained in the section, can be found embracing his case. Such expressions we can not find within it. There must, according to the act, have been a purchasing or buying, with intent to transport beyond the limits of the state, there to be sold, or a taking or receiving as the factor or agent of another, with intent to transport to places without the state, there to be sold before the slaves could acquire a right to freedom; neither of which cases is made out by the proof against Matthews, who transported the mother of the plaintiff. Held on the evidence that the case was not within the act. It has been insisted that this act, so far as the freedom of the slave is concerned, ought to receive a liberal construction; and especially that it ought to be construed here as it would be by the courts of New York. We have not been driven to a strict construction of the act, to come to the conclusion which we have drawn. But the consideration of the mischief to be remedied, and the remedy applied, brings out this result, and furnishes the rule for construing remedial statutes. The act was remedial, and to be construed accordingly. We admit that the construction of the act which has been adopted in the state of New York, ought to have great weight, and that if a case could be found which construed the statute into an effectual stoppage of all exportation of slaves from that state, we should hesitate before we run counter to it. Effect of the construction adopted in New York But no such case has been produced. The cases cited to prove that the supreme court of that state has indulged a liberal construction in favor of freedom; but none have gone so far as to say that all exportation was prevented or forbidden by the act. *4 It has been urged, that if Lott had taken this slave beyond the line of New York and sold her to Matthews, she would have been free, and that of course, as Matthews came within the limits and bought of Lott to take without the state, she ought to be free also; for it is absurd to say, that is she is taken out and sold she shall be free, and that if she is sold to be taken out, she shall not be free. The act did not prohibit owners of slaves from removing them without the State, with the intention, and there in fact, selling them. The premises from which this conclusion is drawn, can not be admitted. --It prohibited purchasing for this purpose. If it did appear from the act, that first taking this slave from the state and there selling her by Lott, would have secured her freedom, we confess we should be inclined to think that selling her first, to be taken out of the state afterwards, ought to have the same effect. But this is not the fact. We can not see any thing in the statute which forbade Lott, or any other owner of slaves resident in that state, who had not bought them for the purpose, from taking them without the bounds of the state and there selling them, where the laws permitted them to be sold; but we do see something forbidding him or any other person from making up a cargo or drove of slaves, or even procuring a single slave by purchase, and then transporting them to be sold elsewhere. This commence was that which the legislature intended to destroy. The only expressions of the statute which create any difficulty in the construction which we have adopted, are these, "or shall, as factor or agent to another, take or receive any slave, with intent to remove," &c. It may be insisted, that if Lott could not have delivered his slave to an agent to be transported and sold, without giving her her freedom, he, of course, could not take her and sell her himself. But this difficulty is also removed by considering the main objects of the act. The inhibition of the traffic by factor or agent, was only intended to prevent the evasion of the main design of the act. Persons were first by themselves forbidden to purchase and buy up slaves with intent to transport and sell them, and to prevent evasions of the statute, by using agents or factors, and thereby cutting off the plea, that such merchants were not within the letter of the act, it is added, that the taking or receiving slaves by factors or agents for the same illicit purpose, shall have the same effect as direct buying; so that, however, slaves might be bought, if it was done by a factor or agent, or being bought at any other time and manner, if they were received or taken by an agent or factor, for the purpose of transportation and sale, the same consequences should follow. To prevent evasions of the statute by agencies, these words were inserted. But we see nothing in the statute which prevented an owner of a slave from selling him either within or without the state, in the mode in which slaves for use are sold, provided the transaction did not partake of the nature of buying for the purpose of selling again, as articles of merchandise. We therefore conclude, that the two first instructions given by the court below to the jury, are correct; but that the third, for the reasons before given, is erroneous; and that, for this cause, the judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. *5 Judgment reversed for an erroneous instruction against plaintiff, tho' his evidence did not conduce to maintain his action. Mayes, for appellant; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Carney v. Hampton 3 T.B.Mon. 228, 19 Ky. 228, 1826 WL 2186 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
