(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 179,  19 Ky. 179 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1264 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lamb v. Moberly. Apr. 15, 1826. *1 Evidence. Contents of Papers. Notice. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 158(27) 157 Evidence 157V Best and Secondary Evidence 157k158 Facts or Transactions Described in or Evidenced by Writing 157k158(27) k. Conveyances, Contracts, and Other Instruments.  Most Cited Cases In assumpsit for money promised by defendant to be paid plaintiff for a note of a third person sold and delivered by plaintiff to defendant, plaintiff need not produce, nor require defendant to produce, the note, but may prove the existence and sale by parol evidence. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The plaintiff in the court below, sued the defendant, in an action of assumpsit, for so much money for a note made by a third person, and sold and delivered by the plaintiff to the defendant. Assumpsit for money promised by defendant to be paid plaintiff, for a note made by a third person, and sold and delivered by plaintiff to defendant. On the trial of the issue of non assumpsit, the plaintiff introduced the confessions of the defendant that he had bought such a note, and had promised to pay a certain sum therefor, at a period, or rather on a contingency which had happened, substantially agreeing with some of the counts in the declaration. The counsel for defendant, moved the court to exclude that evidence, until the plaintiff should produce the note itself as the best evidence. The court sustained this motion. The counsel for plaintiff, during the trial, gave notice to the defendant to produce the note, and then required the court to permit parol evidence to be given of the contents of the note, or to rule the defendant to produce it, tendering at the same time an affidavit, that the note was seen in the hands of the adverse counsel at the commencement of this trial, and he had not been out of the court house since. The court refused to do either, and then, on motion of the defendant, directed the plaintiff to be nonsuited, to which the plaintiff refused to submit, and excepted to the opinions of the court, and a verdict and judgment were rendered against him; to reverse which, this writ of error is prosecuted. We can not agree with the court below, that the production of the note was necessary. It could only be held necessary, by not attending to the distinction between proving the existence and contents of a note, and the sale of a note. Of the former, the note is the better evidence; but of the latter, the note furnishes no evidence. For, how the production of a note could, in any manner, prove a parol sale of it afterwards made, which sale could not appear on the face of the note or any part of it, is hard to conceive. The existence of a note is as certainly perceived by the senses, or acknowledged in conversation, as that of any other article of commerce, and it might as well be urged, that before the acknowledgments of a sale of any other article could be given in evidence, the article itself must be produced in court, in order that the court might see that it really existed, as that a note thus sold, should be produced. *2 In such case, plaintiff need not produce, nor require defendant to produce the note sold, but may prove the existence and sale of it, by parol evidence.-- The distinction is between the contents of the instrument as evidence of a contract, and existence of it, as a thing and subject of the contract to be proved. Nor do we deem the decision of the court more correct in refusing to permit parol evidence to be adduced of the existence and contents of the note, which the court had decided to be necessary. That a longer time of notice could be necessary to produce the note, where it was present in court, in the pocket of the adverse counsel or his client, is wholly inadmissible, unless the presence of the note had been denied by proper affidavits. To require a longer time of notice to make it reasonable, was holding the party to a rigidity of practice not warranted by law. Where the counsel of defendant had the paper at the commencement of the trial, notice at the bar to produce it, is sufficient to authorize plaintiff to prove its contents, unless its presence be denied on oath. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Turner for plaintiff; Caperton for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Lamb v. Moberly 3 T.B.Mon. 179, 19 Ky. 179, 1826 WL 1264 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
