(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 523,  20 Ky. 523 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1475 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Roach v. Wade. Apr. 30, 1827. *1 Improvements. Parol Contracts for Land. ERROR TO THE OHIO CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 138(5) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k138 Contracts Implied by Law on Part Performance 185k138(5) k. Recovery for Improvements. Most Cited  Cases Where the contract for sale of lands is void under the statute of frauds, the occupier cannot recover of the owner for labor and improvements on an implied promise. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This case is an attempt to recover, in an action of assumpsit, the value of improvements made by the plaintiff below, on a tract of land sold to him by the defendant, by a contract in parol only, and which the plaintiff himself failed to carry into effect, and which could not be specifically enforced; and damages could not be recovered at law for a breach thereof, because of the provisions of the act of assembly, entitled "an act to prevent frauds and perjuries." Assumpsit will not lie for the value of improvements made on land by the purchaser by parol, who fails to execute the contract. On no principle which we can conceive, will an action of assumpsit, express or implied, lie in such case. The request of the defendant in such actions, must either be proved, or presumed from the circumstances, to authorize the action. Here there is not only no proof of a request, but also, the want of such facts from which the law will imply it. Query: whether such improvements would not uphold a subsequent promise-- Whether such labor might not form a good consideration to uphold a subsequent promise, or whether a court of equity might not afford a recovery, as this court has done in many instances, we need not now determine. For such case is not presented. Herewith accords the case of  Shrieve v. Grimes, 4 Litt. Rep. 220. --As to remedy in equity. The decision of the court below, admitting the evidence, when objected to, and in overruling the motion for a new trial, and sustaining the verdict founded on such evidence, is, therefore, deemed erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Roach v. Wade 4 T.B.Mon. 523, 20 Ky. 523, 1827 WL 1475 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
