(Cite as: 5 Litt. 198,  15 Ky. 198 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1411 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Sergeant of the Court of Appeals v. George. May 27, 1824. *1 FROM THE GENERAL COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 143(6) 228 Judgment 228IV By Default 228IV(B) Opening or Setting Aside Default 228k143 Excuses for Default 228k143(6) k. Mistake as to Process. Most Cited  Cases A summons was served by a constable on the complainant, under special authority from a deputy sergeant, and judgment was rendered, on neglect of the complainant to appear.  Held, that such service was legal, and that the complainant could not be relieved because it was inconvenient for him to obey the process, and he believed it to be illegal. Process 313 k 53 313 Process 313II Service 313II(A) Personal Service in General 313k50 Authority or Capacity to Serve 313k53 k. Person Specially Authorized or Deputed. Most  Cited Cases Summons served by a constable under special authority from a deputy sergeant is valid. BIBB for plaintiff; MONROE for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The complainant below, now defendant in error, filed his bill, alleging that a constable of his county presented and read to him a summons from the general court, issued in the name of, and directed to the sergeant of the court of appeals, for the use of Mahlon Gillingham, George Randolph and Edmund Randolph, and requiring him to appear on the first day of the next term of said court, to answer and say whether he was not indebted to David L. Gregg, a certain sum of money named in the summons; that he enquired of the constable, whether he had the authority to execute the summons, and that the constable replied, that he did not know, but that one of the deputy sergeants of this court had given it to him to execute, and requested him to do so, and had said that he would return it executed in his (the deputy's) own name; that, being advised that such a service of the process was illegal, or would be ineffectual, and finding it inconvenient to leave home on the day of the court when his attendance was required by the summons, he did not attend until the tenth day of the court, when he found that the deputy sergeant had, in his own name and that of his principal, returned the summons illegally executed, and a judgment was rendered against him for the amount named in the summons, and the court had adjourned; that Gregg had been committed to prison in execution of a judgment obtained in the joint names of the aforesaid persons, and had taken the oath of an insolvent debtor, and had deliver a schedule of his estate, and among the rest, a demand against him, the complainant, named in the summons. He then proceeded to show, by receipts, that he had paid part of the amount charged against him by Gregg, and denied the justness of the balance, and insisted that he was not bound to pay it. He made the sergeant of this court, Gregg, and the plaintiffs at law, defendants, and obtained an injunction. *2 Where the defence was at law, equity will not interfere, upon an allegation of the defendant, that he did not attend and defend the case, because he was advised that the officer who executed the summons, was not authorized to do so, and it was inconvenient for him to attend the court on the day the case was set for trial. It is not clear that it is competent for a party to prove the falsity of an officer's return in a collateral mode, without a direct proceeding against the officer, even in chancery. The sergeant demurred to the bill, and the court overruled the demurrer; and on the sergeant's stating that he would abide by his demurrer, and not answer, the court decreed a perpetual injunction without costs, from which the sergeant has appealed to this court. A principal sheriff or sergeant may appoint a general deputy, but a deputy can not, though he may empower another to do a particular act, and the act, if done in pursuance thereof, is valid. We conceive that the demurrer of the sergeant ought to have been sustained. The complainant was fully warned that such process had issued from a proper court. He did not attend to answer it, because it was inconvenient, merely. This is not enough to excuse his failure in making his defence at law, when it is properly cognizable there, and the only additional excuse that he has left for non-attendance to make his defence in the proper court is, that the service of the process was illegal, and the return of the deputy sergeant false. It is not clear, that it is competent for a party to aver and prove the falsity of a return made by a proper officer, in a collateral mode, without a direct proceeding against the officer himself, even in chancery. The practice might prejudice numerous suits, where parties had forgotten the service of process; where they had not heard, or did not wish to hear the officer; and it might involve various inquiries, how the process was served, and whether enough was said or done to amount to service. But, without giving any direct opinion on this point, and leaving it to be decided where it may more directly occur, we are not disposed to admit that the execution of the process, in this instance, was illegal, or the return false, according to the complainant's own history of the transaction. That a principal sheriff or sergeant may appoint a general deputy, can not be doubted. It is also true, that a deputy can not appoint a general deputy, or confer any authority upon him to act as such. But a deputy, or bailiff, may empower another to do a particular act, and the act, if done in pursuance thereof, is valid. See Jacob's Law Dic. 251, title Deputy; 1 Salk. 96. The execution of a summons by a constable, under a special authority from a deputy sergeant, is valid. As the authority, then, given in this case by the deputy sergeant, must be presumed to have been properly given, his return in consequence thereof, is true, and the service valid. It, therefore, necessarily follows, that the complainant below could derive no aid, in framing his excuse for not defending at law, from any illegality in the acts of the officer. *3 The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below to sustain the demurrer and dissolve the injunction with damages, and dismiss the bill with costs. Ky.App. 1824. Sergeant of the Court of Appeals v. George 5 Litt. 198, 15 Ky. 198, 1824 WL 1411 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
