(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 252,  10 Ky. 252 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1051 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Whitfield Craig v. Catharine Clarke et al. Apr. 7, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE SCOTT CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 53 142 Ejectment 142II Jurisdiction, Parties, Process, and Incidental Proceedings 142k53 k. Declaration and Notice as Process. Most Cited Cases Notice in ejectment is in the nature of process, and cannot be aided by any statement of the person serving the declaration, or by defendants appearing and excepting, unless they also enter into the common rule. Ejectment 142 k 53 142 Ejectment 142II Jurisdiction, Parties, Process, and Incidental Proceedings 142k53 k. Declaration and Notice as Process. Most Cited Cases A notice in ejectment must contain the names of the tenants in possession. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an ejectment, in which the lessor of the plaintiff wholly omitted the names of the tenants in possession, and did not address the notice to them in any manner. After service, at the filing of the declaration, he proved, by the person who served the declarations, that he left copies of the declaration and notice with each, and informed them at the same time, "that the notice underwritten was intended for them." and that the object was to turn them out of possession. Several terms afterwards the tenants appeared by counsel, but did not make themselves defendants. The cause was once dismissed on the default of the plaintiff, and on his motion reinstated, and the tenants excepted.--A change of venue to another court was awarded, and the tenants moved to dismiss the suit on account of the aforesaid defect in the notice. The court sustained the motion, and the plaintiff appealed. Notice in ejectment is in the nature of process, and can not be aided by any statement of the person serving the declaration, or by the defendants appearing and excepting, unless they also enter into the common rule. Had the service been defective, it might have been cured by a common order, But as the defect was in the notice itself, which, as this court has said in the case of Beall v. Siverts, 1 Marsh. 134, partakes of the nature of process, and must answer the end of it, we can not conceive that the defect was cured by the verbal statements of the person who delivered the copies. The proper parties to process of any kind are essential to its validity; and if this court should once indulge the principle, that the person or officer, who executed process, could supply its substantial defects by verbal statements the rule would not be susceptible of limitation, until the whole notice annexed to a declaration in ejectment might be supplied by verbal statements. Nor do we conceive that any previous acts of the tenants, such as appearing and excepting, waived the error. They had never acknowledged the validity of the proceedings by entering into the common rule, and joining issue upon title. The court below, therefore, did right in quashing the declaration and notice. *2 The decision must be affirmed with costs. Haggin for appellant. Ky.App. 1821. Craig v. Clarke 3 A.K.Marsh. 252, 10 Ky. 252, 1821 WL 1051 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
