(Cite as: 4 Litt. 429,  14 Ky. 429 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1305 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wier v. Bush. Dec. 13, 1823. *1 FROM THE WARREN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 204(2) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k204 Demurrer to Part of Pleading or to Pleading Good in Part 302k204(2) k. Demurrer to declaration, complaint, or petition  in general. Most Cited Cases A general demurrer to a declaration containing several counts cannot be sustained, if any count is sufficient. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 1768 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101VII Directors, Officers, and Agents 101VII(B) Election or Appointment, Qualification, and Tenure 101VII(B)2 Officers and Agents 101k1768 k. Term of office and tenure. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k291) Though the officers of a corporation are required by its charter or by its by-laws to be elected yearly, yet they may continue in office until others are duly chosen. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 3002 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101XII Dissolution and Forfeiture of Franchise 101XII(A) In General 101k2992 Causes and Grounds 101k3002 k. Deficiency of shareholders, members, or  officers. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 101k600) Managers and officers do not form an integral part of a corporation, and an omission to elect them, at the time appointed by charter, will not dissolve the corporation. Subsequent election will restore its functions which may have been suspended by such omission. CRITTENDEN and BRECKINRIDGE for laintiff; HARDIN, MONROE and SHARP for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The Bank of Green River having from some cause or other, which does not appear in this record, ceased its operations, on the 5th February, 1819, the legislature of this state (see Session Acts 1818, 685) passed an act authorizing it to resume its corporate functions, upon certain conditions therein specified, some of which are as follows: A general demurrer can not be sustained to a declaration assigning some breaches well and some ill. "1st. The president and directors of said bank, shall be bound, jointly and severally, in their individual capacities, to pay and discharge in specie, all notes heretofore, or which may hereafter be thrown into circulation by said corporation, whether the same be payable to the bearer or to any individual or individuals, or body corporate, to his, her, their or its endorsee. In every case of corporations created by statute, as far as the statute directs and provides, it must rule; but in cases pretermitted by the statute the principles of the common law must govern. 2d. The notes heretofore thrown into circulation by said corporation, shall be paid and discharged as follows, to-wit, one-fifth in sixty days, one-fifth in one hundred and twenty days, one-fifth in one hundred and eighty days, one-fifth in two hundred and forty days, and one-fifth in three hundred days. And when the holder or endorser of any note or notes heretofore issued by said corporation, shall present the same for payment, it shall be the duty of the president and directors of said bank, to execute and deliver to such holder or endorsee, post-notes, signed by the president and countersigned by the cashier; which post-notes shall be for one-fifth of the amount of notes presented for payment, and made payable in sixty, one hundred and twenty, one hundred and eighty, two hundred and forty and three hundred days, as aforesaid; and which post-notes shall bear interest from the 25th day of November, 1818, and shall be so expressed on the face of them. *2 The officers properly elected, will hold their offices until successors shall have been appointed, notwithstanding the time of election shall have elapsed. 3d. All notes heretofore issued by said corporation, and which are presented for payment, and shall not be taken up by post-notes, as aforesaid, may be presented to, and be protested by a notary public, and shall thereafter carry interest from the said 25th day of November, at the rate of ten per centum per annum until paid." After some further provisions, not necessary to be recited, the act directs, "that the president and directors of said corporation shall, annually, on the day after their election, and before they enter on the discharge of their duties, during the continuance of the charter, execute bond to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, in the penalty of fifty thousand dollars, conditioned well and truly to pay all debts contracted by said corporation, whenever the same shall be demanded at the banking house or office of said corporation; which said bond, may be put in suit from time to time, by any person or persons or body corporate, injured by a breach of the condition thereof, and judgment obtained thereon." This bond was to be filed in the clerk's office of the circuit court for the county, and be there kept safely. The same act also provides, that the president and directors should signify the acceptance or rejection of the act by a vote thereon, on or before the first day of March then next ensuing, and on the acceptance thereof, the act was to become part of their charter, and be obligatory upon them, and as soon thereafter as may be, the bond was to be executed. On the 26th day of February, 1819, the president and directors of the said bank, executed their bond and filed it with the clerk, in a penalty named in the act, conditioned as follows: "The condition of the above obligation is such, that if the above bound president and directors of the Bank of Green River, shall and do well and truly pay all debts contracted by said corporation, whenever the same shall be demanded at the banking house or office of said corporation, in the manner, by the portions, and at the times prescribed by an act of the last assembly of the state of Kentucky, to amend the charter of the Bank of Green River, then the above obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force." James Weir, as relator of the plaintiff, brought this action of debt for his use, and after reciting the penal part of the bond and condition, set out for breach, that he held five post-notes of equal value, payable in the instalments directed by the act, dated 21st August, 1819, the last of which was payable three hundred days after date, and one of a different sum, dated 30th March, 1819, payable three hundred days after date, all given to take up a like amount of notes issued before the passage of the act aforesaid; also, seven notes of the ordinary kind issued or put into circulation, before the passage of said act, payable to bearer; all which notes, he avers, were presented at the banking house or office of said corporation, and payment demanded, "at the banking house or office of said Bank of Green River, after the six first mentioned notes respectively became due, and whilst the said defendant continued president of said Bank of Green River, and before any election for president and directors of said bank was held, subsequent to the election under which the bond declared on was given, and after the date, execution and delivery of the said seven last mentioned notes; and upon the failure of the said president, directors and company of the Bank of Green River, to make payment of the notes aforesaid, the said notes were regularly protested for non-payment whereby action accrued," &c. This action was commenced on the 4th day of September, 1821, against the president alone, omitting the other obligors in the bond. The defendant appeared, and after craving oyer of the bond, demurred, in which the defendant joined. The court below gave judgment on the demurrer against the relator of the plaintiff below; to reverse which, he has prosecuted this writ of error. *3 It is now contended, that the declaration shows no good cause of action, and does not make out any liability in the defendant to pay the amount demanded. Something has been said in argument about official liability alone resulting from this bond, and that it only bound the parties to pay, officially, during the term for which they were elected, from the funds of the institution. On this subject we can have but one opinion, that the bond bound the parties in their individual estates, and that this was the intention of the act. It has also been insisted that the breach of this bond is badly alleged, and that although it may show a cause of action on the post-notes, or some of them, it does not show it with respect to the others; for that some of the post-notes, to-wit, one of them dated on the 21st of August, for two hundred and forty dollars, and those of the same date payable in three hundred days, could not, according to the declaration, have become due before the expiration of the year for which the president and directors were elected, and that it does not appear that either of the post-notes, or the other original notes, were presented, or the last mentioned notes protested in said year. If part of said notes were not demanded in said year, and part were, and breach was assigned as to each, it would not follow that the court below rightly sustained the demurrer, even if it be conceded that a presentation after the year would not create a liability on the bond; for although a general verdict can not be sustained, where there are some good and some bad breaches, in covenant and in debt, on bonds with collateral condition, yet the rule is too well settled to need authorities to support it, that a general demurrer in such case can not be sustained. If, on demurrer it appears that there is enough assigned to show a subsisting cause of action to any extent, the demurrer must be overruled, and the jury, in their finding, may apply it exclusively to those breaches well assigned, disregarding, under the direction of the court, those that are ill assigned, and thus the verdict and judgment be good. Of course, in this state of case, the demurrer could not be supported. It is, however, somewhat uncertain, from the face of the declaration, whether any of the post-notes, or indeed any of the original notes, were presented within the year for which the president and directors who executed the bond, were elected. Hence, it is contended, that if they were presented afterwards, there would be no liability on the bond. Various questions have been raised respecting the extent of liability which this bond imposes. It may be urged, that it is a general undertaking to pay the debts of the corporation, and that it lives and remains long after the office expired and the corporation is dissolved, whether the party holding demands against the corporation did or did not proceed in the mode pointed out in the act, and that the act itself imposes individual responsibility for all the debts, on the president and directors, and also on the stockholders to the extent of their stock. Whether such an extensive liability is created by the bond or by the act in question, we need not now enquire, and would not be understood as expressing any decisive opinion. Thus far we think it did extend, with regard to all the notes put into circulation before the passage of the act. If they were taken up by post-notes, and the post-notes were not paid on application, with their interest, as required; or if their original notes were not taken up, by post-notes, and were protested by a notary public, as the declaration here alleges, and these applications for payment, in case of the post-notes, or protest, in case of original notes, were made during the continuance of the office of the president and directors, there can be no reasonable doubt entertained, that they did become liable in their individual estate, to an action upon the bond. *4 Assuming this, for argument sake, as the full extent of liability, the question then remains, could the obligors become liable, if the application aforesaid was made after the year expired, for which these officers were elected? For it is rather to be inferred, that the application alleged was made after the year; hence the necessity of suggesting that no subsequent election had intervened. We do not perceive any clause in the charter, authorizing the president and directors to hold over, after the year, in case no new election was held. But was such a clause necessary? And did the functions of the old officers cease, on such failure to re-elect? We conceive not. In every case of corporations created by statute, so far as the statute directs and provides, it must rule; but in cases pretermited by the statute, there are numerous principles of common law, which apply, and guide and sustain the corporation; and to ward off their application, it would be necessary for the legislature to use negative expressions, or such as would exclude those general rules of law. It is one of those general rules, that if a corporation fails to elect officers on its corporate day or time, still the corporation does not cease; the old officers retain their powers, and may act until they are superseded by a new appointment. Hence, the president and directors in this case, continued to be so, and were subject to liability on their bond, as much so after, as before the year expired, if it be true, as the declaration alleges, that no subsequent election had taken place. See  People v. Runkel, 9 John. Rep. 147, and authorities there cited; 5 John. Chan. Rep. 378, Shee v. Bloome, &c. Of course, this objection to the breach can not be sustained. There is one further objection, which we will now consider. The statute provided, that if the president and directors should dissent from the act, they should express their dissent by resolution; and in such case, they should continue their corporate powers, so far as to sue and be sued, until the first of July, 1820; but in case they assented to the act, the corporation was to continue until the first of July, 1821, when the charter was absolutely repealed; and as this suit was not commenced until September, 1821, it may be insisted that it is wholly uncertain whether the application to discharge these notes was made previous to the expiration of the charter or after it was extinct, and therefore the breach is badly assigned. It is the opinion of some, that the legislature can not repeal a charter, granted, as this charter was, without reserving the right of repeal. However this may be, we have no doubt that a corporation may surrender to government its franchises and privileges, and that it may consent to a repeal of its charter. Indeed, even after a repeal has passed, the corporation may consent to it. In this case, the act seems to consider the corporation, from some cause of other, as unable to act further, without legislative aid. The act was not imposed upon it without its assent. It was competent for the legislature to pass a repealing law, and tender it for the approbation or assent of the corporation; and if that assent was given, we have no hesitation in saying that the repeal would be, and in this case is, valid; for the corporation did assent to the act, and the bond executed, on which this suit is founded, is clear evidence of that assent, and therefore the corporation must have ended on the first day of July, 1821. If, then, the breach in this case did leave it wholly uncertain whether the application for the payment of the notes in question was made within the charter, we should hesitate about its validity, or should be led to determine the question, whether these obligors could be liable on this bond by any subsequent application for payment. But, on a careful examination of the breach, we are relieved from this difficulty. It is alleged, that the application was made "whilst the said defendant continued president of the said Bank of Green River," and before any subsequent election for such officers intervened. As the defendant could not continue to be president, after the repeal of the charter, and after that time there was no corporation, no officers and no president, the breach must mean, that the charter had not then expired. *5 Upon the whole case, therefore, we see no objection to the action, or the liability of the defendant below, or to the assignment of breaches in the declaration, sufficient to warrant the decision of the court below, in sustaining the demurrer and rendering judgment for the defendant in that court. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to that court to render judgment for the plaintiff below on demurrer, unless the defendant shall obtain leave to withdraw the demurrer, upon tendering an issuable plea or pleas to the action. Ky.App. 1823. Wier v. Bush 4 Litt. 429, 14 Ky. 429, 1823 WL 1305 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
