(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 197,  10 Ky. 197 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1198 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Parker et al. v. Lewis Stephens. Oct. 27, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE PENDLETON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases It is not enough that an entry shows that it is meant to include some land round a particular object. It ought to exhibit a certain margin, which others could ascertain and adjoin with safety. Specific Performance 358 k 37 358 Specific Performance 358II Contracts Enforceable 358k37 k. Conclusion of Agreement. Most Cited Cases A naked proposition to relinquish land to a certain extent, not accepted by the other party, though in writing, cannot be considered as the subject of specific execution. Ejectment 142 k 143 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k143 k. Set-Off of Improvements or Taxes Against Damages or Mesne Profits. Most Cited Cases Where a party enters on land, supposing it to be his, he is entitled, on being evicted, to the value of all improvements made by himself, accounting for rents, profits, waste, and deterioration of soil,-the rents and profits to commence at the service of the declaration in ejectment, and the waste and reduction of soil during his occupancy to apply to his own farm only, and not to that of his tenants. Improvements 206 k 4(2) 206 Improvements 206k4 Compensation 206k4(2) k. Good Faith of Claimant. Most Cited Cases Though an occupant of land, honestly believing it to be his own, but in fact having no record title, is not entitled to compensation for improvements under the occupying claimant law, he is entitled to compensation therefor in equity, accounting at the same time for any deterioration. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Lewis Stephens exhibited his bill in chancery in the court below, setting up an entry, with a junior patent, against the entry and patent of Parker, one of the defendants, Parker in the contest relies on his patent, and Stephens' entry will of course form the main question. That entry is as follows: February 24, 1783.--John Bryan, assignee, enters 500 acres of land on a treasury warrant, No. 7500, on Licking, at Gen. Clarke's 3d encampment from Bryan's Station, on his march to the Shawnee towns in Nov., 1782; beginning 40 poles southwardly from said camp, on the west side of the creek and running No. to the fork of the creek, and then on both sides of the creek for quantity." This entry was sustained by the court below as valid, and from that decree the defendants appealed. Before investigating the entry, the court will dispose of a previous question arising on a writing of the defendant Parker, written upon the back of a copy of Bryan's entry, now held by Stephens, and before the conveyance of Bryan to Stephens, and it is in these words: "I am willing to relinquish my claim to that part of land, that may be on the west of a north line beginning 40 poles south of Clark's encampment, and running north to the forks of the creek. Thence down the creek at right angles, and no more, to the within entry"-- Signed John Parker, and directed to John Bryan. This is set up in the complainant's bill as a relinquishment of the land on part of Parker, and the bill contends that it ought to be construed as a release, or decreed as one, as it was intended to operate as such. The answer denies that it was intended as a release, or that it was intended as such, but that it was barely a proposition of settling the controversy sent by him or offered to Bryan, and that it was never accepted by Bryan. On this subject there is no additional proof to the pleading and writing itself, and the writing accords with the answer. It is in its terms, a naked proposition or an exposition of willingness to relinquish to the extent mentioned, without an engagement coupled with an acceptance on the other side. As such, it can not be considered as the subject of specific execution. Besides, it stands without any consideration expressed on its face or proved in the cause, and therefore, ought not to be enforced, even if it was a positive engagement. The complainant below must therefore rely on his entry. *2 A mere expression of willingness to compromise a land controversy on certain principles, though in writing if unaccepted by the party to whom it was addressed, form no subject for a specific execution in favor of a vendee of the claim attempted to be compromised. It is clearly proved in the cause, that Gen. Clark, commanding from five to seven hundred men, did encamp, on the third night of his march with the army, near South Licking, on a branch laid down in the plat, and claimed by the appellee, and that, that place afterwards became famous and notorious as General Clark's third encampment, or his encampment the third night from Bryan's Station, on the campaign at or about the date mentioned in the entry, and that the place at the date of the entry, was well known as such. That the encampment was on a small creek, or rather, as the witnesses all describe it, more properly a branch, and not deserving the name of a creek, and that the encampment was at the fork of that branch. This is certainly, then, a good general call in the entry, and well calculated to lead locators not only to the neighborhood, but directly to the main body of the land intended to be appropriated and leaves the only question for consideration, is there enough in the entry to give the precise position of the land; or in other words, can it be surveyed agreeably to its calls and the situation of the objects on the ground? But few cases, on this point, have presented greater difficulty than the present. It has not been customary with this court to refuse to survey an entry and give it a precise position, when there is enough to bring the subsequent locator to the spot. A benign interpretation and favorable construction has been adopted, which has produced numerous rules greatly extending this branch of the science of the law, so that it may now be well doubted, whether the policy of adopting these rules of construction, has not been injurious to the community, by subjecting the land law too much to new inventions and after thoughts of the court, and producing too extensive exercise of discretion. Many of these rules have, however, ripened into rules of property, and have been too long acquiesced in, to be now shaken by this court. One principle runs through the whole; and that is, that the intention of the locator, drawn from the entry itself, is to be the basis of every rule. And in no instance ought a court, arbitrarily, to affix rules to an entry, which have no foundation in the location. If such have been adopted in any instance heretofore, the inventions of new ones ought at all events to cease at this late day. The difficulty in the present case, is somewhat increased by the preparation of the cause. The branch forks, making a very obtuse angle at the encampment, and it is not shewn whether the forks are equal in size, or whether one is larger than the other, so as to entitle it to the appellation of the creek above the encampment, in contradistinction to the forks of the creek. This, if shewn, might greatly affect the call in the entry for the west side of the creek. For it is evident, if the westwardly fork was the creek, it might require the beginning to be on the west side of it, where it has been fixed by the court below. If, on the other hand, the eastwardly fork is large enough to be stiled the creek, when contrasted with the westwardly fork; then the beginning ought to be in the forks, when it would lie on the west side of the creek. And if any thing can be derived from the calls of the entry when compared with the preparation of the cause, this, we conceive, by the positive call "north to the fork of the creek" ought to be the case. Assuming this as the true place of beginning at a point that will lead to the fork of the creek by running north; another difficulty presents itself: does he intend the line which shall run north to the fork, as one line of his survey, as the court below has decreed, or does he design by it an extension or addition to the course of the creek within the forks, so as to construct his survey on each side of it as far as this line extended, and then down on each side of the creek for the residue of the land? This must be determined by the entry itself. As he shews a disposition to include the encampment, and evidently intended to begin forty poles south of it, so as to leave no doubt of its being fully included, and then to lay his land on each side of the creek below, and as by making it a line of the survey, he could not have included any land above the forks, which he seems to contemplate, we conceive that he evidently intended this line as an extension of the general course of the creek that far into the forks, on which he meant to construct a survey on each side of the line as far as it went, and then down on each side of the creek, and that he could not have designed to make it a line bounding his claim. But after all this is conceded to this entry, a difficulty arises still more formidable. The encampment, no doubt, from the proofs in the cause, left traces enough on the trees within it, to enable subsequent enquirers to distinguish generally the place where it was. It is agreed by all the witnesses, that it covered ten or twelve acres of ground, and its general centre might perhaps have been ascertained. But how is its margin to be found? One witness says, he shewed the encampment on the ground to the surveyor, as nearly as he could. The surveyor has reported it as shewn, and also as he says, by his own observation on the ground; and the surveyor has shewn it as lying below, and reaching up to, the forks only, and not above it. But the rest of the witnesses do not attempt to point out its margin,and they prove unequivocally, that the General's tent was thirty or forty steps below the forks, and that the encampment extended into the forks and up each fork a considerable distance. One of them, when speaking on that point, is pressed to say how far. He answers, he conceives about two hundred yards, or not exceeding that distance. Now, as we have before observed, (if the locator's intention can be ascertained), he intended beginning in the forks of the creek on the west side of the eastern fork, forty poles from the margin of the encampment, at such a point as that a line extended due north, would have struck the fork of the creek; thence down the creek as it meanders so far, that a direct and straight line back to the beginning, would have equalled the square root of five hundred acres, the quantity of his entry; and then on each side of this line, in a square figure, to lay equal quantities of his survey. At what point shall we then begin this line southwardly of the encampment? To adopt the fork of the creek as the highest point where the encampment was shewn with certainty to have existed, would wholly disregard the call, to run north to the fork of the creek, and would entirely contravene the idea in the entry, that he meant to include the encampment and forty poles beyond it. To commence forty poles southwardly of the fork, would be arbitrary, and in direct contradiction to the proof, that the encampment extended above the fork. How then shall we extend him far enough and find the precise point of beginning? The means are not furnished us, and the uncertainty is too great to fix on any spot. Add to this, that the survey below the fork must, to comply with the entry, conform to the creek, and the creek below is extremely crooked, so that every pole he was moved above the fork, and then constructing the survey from every point, would give a different position to the survey and materially change the territory it covered. Subsequent locators who had attempted to adjoin him with certainty, could not have done it with either certainty or safety; but would have their surveys, by every change of his position, more materially altered than his would be. The margin of the land appropriated by every entry is more important than the centre. For we often use the centre, when that alone is shewn, to ascertain the margin, and if the latter is designated, the former is wholly unimportant. It is not then enough that an entry should shew, that it meant to include some land around a particular object, without determining with certainty, how much. It ought to exhibit a certain margin, which others could ascertain and adjoin with safety; for this is the imperious requisite of the law. We, therefore, conceive that the entry set up by the complainant, can not be supported; and the decree of the court below, on this ground, must be reversed. But as the complainant sets up in his bill, a claim for improvements, in case he can not sustain his entry, that branch of the case must then be considered. *3 He appears to have entered under a claim in the name of Thomas Reed, by virtue of a bond from Alexander Reed; but is unable to shew a connected title in law or equity with Thomas Reed's claim, although supposing, by his bond, the land to be his, he has made improvements. He is therefore, not entitled, under the act of assembly concerning occupying claimants of land; but is, we conceive entitled, on equitable principles, to relief on this ground, to pay for all improvements made by himself, excluding those made by strangers, before he entered, accounting at the same time for rents, profits, waste and deterioration of soil--the rents and profits to commence at the service of the declaration in ejectment, and the waste and reduction of soil during his occupancy; and this is only to apply to his own farm, and not to that of the tenants which he has taken under his protection at the commencement of the ejectment. The decree of the court below is therefore reversed with costs, and the cause remanded with directions there to dismiss the bill with costs as to all the defendants except Parker, and as to him, after the amount of improvements and rents are taken pursuant to this opinion, the injunction to be dissolved, and a decree entered for the balance, which ever way it may appear due. An occupant of land improving the same, honestly believing it to be his own, when in truth he can deduce no record title, can not be protected by the occupying claimant law, but under general chancery principles, he is entitled to his ameliorations--liable, nevertheless, to his deteriorations. Haggin and Crittenden for appellants. Ky.App. 1820. Parker v. Stephens 3 A.K.Marsh. 197, 10 Ky. 197, 1820 WL 1198 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
