(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 278,  21 Ky. 278 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1552 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robinson v. Scott. Jun. 28, 1827. *1 Judgments Final. Costs. Practice. Reserved Questions of Law. Limitations. Motions. Appeal Bonds. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 399 228 Judgment 228IX Opening or Vacating 228k398 Operation and Effect 228k399 k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where a verdict entered subject to the opinion of the court is set aside, the court cannot, at a subsequent term, make a new judgment in bar of the defendant, but must proceed to try the cause. Justices of the Peace 231 k 159(13) 231 Justices of the Peace 231V Review of Proceedings 231V(A) Appeal and Error 231k153 Requisites and Proceedings for Transfer of  Cause 231k159 Bonds or Other  Securities 231k159(13) k. Waiver of Defects in Bond or Delay  in Filing. Most Cited Cases A motion does not lie to dismiss an appeal to the circuit court for defect in the appeal bond, after the cause is brought to the court of appeals from a judgment for the appellant in the circuit court. Appeal and Error 30 k 78(7) 30 Appeal and Error 30III Decisions Reviewable 30III(D) Finality of Determination 30k75 Final Judgments or Decrees 30k78 Nature and Scope of  Decision 30k78(7) k. Relating to Costs. Most Cited  Cases A judgment of a court setting aside a verdict, and adjudging costs, is final and appealable only as to costs. Appeal and Error 30 k 499(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(A) Matters to Be Shown 30k498 Presentation and Reservation of Grounds of  Review 30k499 Questions and Objections in  General 30k499(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Points of law reserved for the decision of the court, on which the case depends, should appear on the record. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This case was once before in this court, and the opinion and decision thereon, will be found in  3 Litt. Rep. 233. Opinion in the case when before here,  3 Littell, 233. It is obvious from that opinion, that this court considered the cause not terminated and still pending in the court below; that the court had barely set aside the first verdict and judgment with costs, and had left the cause undisposed of. Hence it was held, that this court had no jurisdiction of the main question, until it was decided finally below. Judgment of the court setting aside a verdict and adjudging costs against the party for whom it had been found, is final only as to the costs. That the only judgment to which the writ of error lay, was a judgment for costs, pending the suit, and although that judgment thus rendered, before the suit was terminated, might be improper, yet we could not reach it, because the plaintiff in error had not complained thereof, in his assignment of error, and therefore, that judgment for costs, and no other, was then affirmed. *2 Does a writ of error lie to such a judgment for costs before the termination of the suit? It might have been supposed that on the return of the cause to the court below, that court would have proceeded in the usual mode to have tried and disposed of the cause. Instead of this, on entering the opinion of this court, that court again proceeded to enter another judgment instanter, that the appellant below, recover his costs in the suit expended. Judgment of the circuit on the return of the cause repeating the erroneous decision. At the same term, the plaintiff in error, (being plaintiff in the warrant), moved to set aside this new judgment for costs, and to proceed with the cause, but the court overruled this application, and amended this judgment for costs, by inserting therein, "that the judgment of the justice of the peace, which was in favor of the plaintiff in error, be reversed, and that the defendant in error recover his costs." Farther judgment of the circuit court. This is so palpably inconsistent with the former opinion of this court, and also with the right which the plaintiff in the warrant had, to be heard before he was defeated, that the judgment can not be permitted to stand. The only apology for this last proceeding, furnished us by the record, is, that on the first trial in that court, when a verdict and judgment was rendered for the plaintiff in the warrant, it was rendered, subject to some unknown point of law reserved for the decision of the court. On the decision of that point, what ever it was, the court then barely set the verdict and judgment aside, and rendered no judgment terminating the case. We can, therefore, only suppose, that on the return of the first opinion of the court, the judge, remembering what that point of law was, determined, by making use of that, to end the controversy. Such a reservation and recollection of a point of law in memory only, for several years, when the record did not shew what it was, can not be permitted to operate on the rights of the parties. Where a verdict is found and entered subject to the opinion of the court, and the court on consideration, ordered the verdict to be set aside, the court can not, at a subsequent term, make a new judgment in bar of the defendant, but must proceed to try the cause. It has been held by this court, that a point of law reserved for the decision of the court, on which the fate of the cause must ultimately depend, ought to be made to appear on the record, before the record is closed, and if it does not, its absence is error, and that for a good reason. Every judgment must be the legitimate inference of law from the facts stated and settled in the record; and to leave a record, containing such facts, that the judgment ought inevitably to be rendered for one party, and yet the judgment to be in favor of his adversary, because of some unexplained facts out of the record, would render records nugatory, and leads to great abuses, by the exercise of a tyrannical discretion in the judge. If, therefore, this court would have to reverse such a judgment, because the grounds of it did not appear in the record, it is certainly not right that an inferior court should continue to repeat such a judgment, and still keep out of sight the reasons thereof, upon recollection only. *3 Points of law reserved for the decision of the court, on which the fate of the case depends, ought to appear on the record, before it is closed. One other point is worthy of notice. After the return of the cause from this court, the plaintiff in the warrant, now plaintiff in error, moved to dismiss the appeal, from the justice of the peace, because the appeal bond was not taken in double the amount of the debt and costs. The court overruled this motion and we think correctly. There must certainly be some hour at which the appellee should be precluded from taking exceptions to such bonds, and the question can not be forever open. After having a trial in that court, a verdict and a judgment in his favor, and a writ of error to this court, and decision thereon, it certainly was too late, if ever such exception can come too late, to return to the appeal bond, and rely on its defects to preclude a trial altogether. Motions to dismiss appeals to the circuit court, for defects in the appeal bond, may come too late. After appellant has had a judgment below, and been here with the case, the season is over. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for a new trial, and such further proceedings as may not be inconsistent with this opinion. Combs, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. Robinson v. Scott 5 T.B.Mon. 278, 21 Ky. 278, 1827 WL 1552 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
