(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 529,  19 Ky. 529 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1339 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Boone v. Dyke's Legatees. Oct. 7, 1826. *1 Evidence. Practice. Writings. Witness. Executors. Legatees. Devisees. Contingent Remainders. Instructions. Error. Possession. Limitation. APPEAL FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 291 162 Executors and Administrators 162VII Distribution of Estate 162k291 k. Assent to Legacy or Devise. Most Cited Cases Assent of one of several executors, that devisee of the particular estate shall take it, is sufficient to vest both that and the remainder over. Executors and Administrators 162 k 292 162 Executors and Administrators 162VII Distribution of Estate 162k292 k. Executor as Legatee. Most Cited Cases Where an executor is a legatee with others of a life estate in a number of slaves, and a division is made, and he afterwards, holding as legatee in severalty, sells without naming himself executor, it cannot be inferred that he sold as executor. Evidence 157 k 177 157 Evidence 157V Best and Secondary Evidence 157k176 Grounds for Admission of Secondary Evidence 157k177 k. In General. Most Cited Cases When the primary evidence is out of the jurisdiction, secondary is admissible. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. In 1784, John Dykes, of Louisa county, Virginia, made and published his last will and testament, which was recorded after his death, in 1786. The provisions thereof, which have any bearing on this controversy, are as follows: John Dykes' will made in Virginia, and recorded after his death in '86. "I lend unto my wife Judith, two negroes, during her natural life, her choice, and one feather bed and furniture, two cows and calves, two sows and pigs, a good work-horse, a plentiful subsistence for the first year, meat and bread and other necessaries towards house-keeping; and at her decease, to return to my children, Elizabeth, Judith, John, Henry and William Dykes, equally divided, share and share alike. Extract from the will. I lend unto my daughter Elizabeth Barker, one negro girl named Jane, at what she is appraised at, to go in part of her legacy, during her natural life, and then to return to the heirs of her body forever. I lenl unto my daughter Judith Hailey, one negro girl, named Hannah, at what she is appraised at, to go in part of her legacy, during her natural life, then to return to the heirs of her body forever, her son James to come in equal share with the rest. I lend the rest of my estate to my children, Elizabeth, Judith, John, Henry and William Dykes, during their natural lives, to be equally divided amongst them, share and share alike, then return to their children equally divided forever. Bequest in question. My land to be sold at the death of my (wife), and not before, without she thinks proper; my land on Fork creek, 540 acres, more or less; the land I had of Thomas Clarke. *2 Lastly, I do constitute my beloved wife, Judith, executrix, together with my three sons, John, Henry and William Dykes, executors of this my last will and testament, hereby revoking all former wills by me made." All the executors qualified, and assumed the executorship. Sometime afterwards, the widow and legatees all united in a division of the estate. The widow took two slaves, as her choice, and there being six more, each of the legatees got one, the daughters taking the ones specifically bequeathed to them. Some of these slaves were male and some females, and some of more value than others; and those legatees who got those of less value, had the difference made up to them out of the personal estate. Nan, who with her descendants, is now the subject of controversy, fell to William Dykes, one of the legatees and executors in this division, who brought her to Kentucky in 1791, and shortly thereafter, sold her to Samuel Boone, the appellant. Division of the slaves bequeathed After the death of William Dykes, his children, now appellees, brought their action of detinue in the court below, for Nan and her children, in which the appellant pleaded non detinit, and a verdict and judgment was rendered in their favor for all the slaves, to reverse which, the appellant has prosecuted this appeal, and relies here on the various question raised and decided against him in the court below. Detinue by the children of William Dykes, one of the legatees brought after his death against his alienee. The appellees by the testimony of witnesses introduced, proved the making of the division of the slaves and personal estate before related, and one of these witnesses, son of the testator, and an executor, proved that this division was evidenced by an instrument of writing, signed by the parties, and left in the care of a Mr. Barnett, then in the neighborhood, for safe keeping. The counsel for the appellant, objected to the admission of any proof of the division, till this writing was produced. Evidence objected to by defendant. The court below overruled the objection, deciding, that as the existence of the writing came out on the cross examination of the appellant's counsel, and was not relied on by the appellees, its production was not necessary. Decision of the circuit court and its reasons. We can not concur with the court below in the reasons given for overruling this objection. It was certainly immaterial whether the existence of the writing was disclosed on the examination of the plaintiff or defendants. Its disclosure at any period, brought its importance into view as the best evidence. It was not competent for the plaintiffs so to conduct their examination as to prove the contents of the writing, and keep its existence out of sight, and then, when its existence was disclosed by the cross examination of their adversary, be excused from producing it by their adroitness in first keeping it out of sight. And if the instrument ought to have been produced, and could not be substituted by parol evidence, the disclosure of its existence at any time, excluded the use of evidence of an inferior character. *3 That the evidence of the existence of a writing witnessing the facts the witness proves, comes out on the cross examination of the other party, is no reason for dispensing with its production. Nor can we say with the court below, that the plaintiffs there did not rely upon it. To prove the allotment of the particular slaves in question, to their father, and the assent of the executors thereto, they certainly did rely upon it, or rather upon the division evidenced by it, which they had established by parol, when there was proof of a higher grade. But while we dissent from the reasons which that court gave for this decision, and suppose them untenable, we can not admit that the judgment ought to be disturbed on that account, if other reasons, not assigned, appear sufficient to excuse the production of this evidence, and admit that of lesser grade. Wrong reasons do not effect a right decision. The law did not, at that period, or since, require the owners of slaves to take, or keep, written evidence of title, and, therefore, such an instrument must have been intended as a ratification of the division between the parties till acquiescence rendered its existence unnecessary; and it was not to be matter enrolled on any record. Since its deposit for safe keeping, we have become a state, separate from, and independent of, Virginia, and our process can not reach the holder of that paper, which had been placed with him about forty years since. It is not necessary to prove a division of slaves and the assent of the executors in Virginia, before the separation, that the writing which witnessed the transaction, and was deposited there for safe keeping, should be produced. As the paper was then out of the reach of process, and may be presumed to have performed its functions long since, we do not conceive that the plaintiffs below, were bound to produce it, while they had inferior evidence of the same facts, in their power, as a party under the decisions of this court, is excused from producing a subscribing witness to a paper absent from the state, before he uses other evidence. It may be all proved by parol, though the writing still exists. It was also insisted in that court, and now urged in this, that by the will, the testator intended to provide, first, for his children, and then for his grand-children. The former were to take a life estate equally divided, and then a new hotchpotch, after the death of his children was to be made, and an equal division to follow. It is like the case of a subscribing witness without the state, whose handwriting may be proved. That some of his children might have many children, and others few or none-- that the slaves of some being females, might increase rapidly, and others not at all, and that the true construction of the will, required a second equal division, after the death of all the testator's children, and as some of them were living, this suit was premature, or, if it was not, the plaintiffs below were only tenants in common of the slaves, with the other grandchildren of the testator, and could not support this action alone. *4 The decision of this point must rest on the true meaning and construction of the will. It must mean as the appellant contends, or the intention was, that his children should have one division, and then the slaves and other estate which each held, should be divided equally among the children of each respectively, without regard to the numbers held by the remaining children, and if so, none of the consequences contended for will follow. The latter we conceive to be the intention of the testator in the will, which is drafted in not very precise language. But there is nothing that points out necessarily, a second division, and the insertion of the word "respectively," would have negatived the idea. Still, however, as the words used, might be literally complied with, by a second division, we have been led to examine other parts of the will, to discover anything which may aid us in discovering more fully, the intention of the testator. There we find that two slaves with some other articles, were bequeathed to his widow, and after her death, were to go to his children, without any limitation as to the estate the children were to take, and this is the only portion of the estate which his children could take as their own. He next bequeaths or lends to his two daughters, a slave each, adding the words, "to go in part of her legacy," meaning, no doubt, her portion or share of his estate, and then directs each to "return to the heirs of her body forever," excluding the idea, that any of the rest of his grandchildren were to participate in these bequests. He afterwards disposes of the rest of his estate, to all his children--that is, the part which had not been specifically devised, equally during their lives. Now, if the construction placed upon the will by the appellee, was to prevail, then these two daughters would have their respective slaves divided equally among their children, and these same children would, in addition thereto, come in for an equal share of those left to the sons, which is directly contrary to that equality among both children and grandchildren, which the testator meant to preserve, and an inequality would be produced by his own directions, instead of resulting from future contingencies. On a devise thus: I lend the rest of my estate to E. J., I. H. and W. during their natural lives, to be equally divided amongst them, share and share alike, then to return to their children equally divided forever, held in connection with other provisions in the will, that the slaves assigned each, shall after the life estate is spent pass to his or her children respectively. We, therefore conceive, that the testator intended to divide the fund on hand equally, and did not nicely scan the events of futurity, which might, and probably would, thereafter produce a great inequality; and that he intended one equal division, and then the portion allotted to each, was to go in equal shares to his or her children. It, therefore, follows, that this suit was not premature, nor are these plaintiffs joint tenants, or tenants in common with their cousins. They are entitled to all, or nothing at all. *5 Equality at the time of making the will, not future and contingent inequality given effect in the construction of the devise. Nor does the circumstance of some having the value of the slaves made up out of the personalty, contravene the provisions of the will, or render the division made, void. For this, personalty was to pass in the same manner, and it was not necessary that all should have a slave or slaves to comply with the will. Inequality in the division of the slaves among the tenants for life, not inconsistent with this will. There were numerous instructions moved for on the part of the defendant, which went to affect the title of the plaintiffs, and which were correct in themselves, as legal propositions, but they were correctly overruled, because they had no application to the state of evidence, and were contrary to the whole tenor of it, therefore they will not be noticed in detail; but we shall give one or two as specimens. For instance, the court was moved to instruct the jury, that if no division had taken place between those entitled thereto, the plaintiffs had not a right to recover. Now, the whole evidence shewed a division among the children of the testator, acquiesced in for nearly forty years, and there was not a particle of evidence controverting it. It was, therefore, not erroneous to refuse an instruction, which had nothing in the evidence on which it could be based. It is not error to refuse to give an instruction to the jury, predicated on the non-existence of a fact which the whole evidence, though parol shewed, and to which there was no countervailing evidence. The court was also asked to tell the jury, that if the plaintiffs had not the assent of the executors of John Dykes, the elder, they could not recover. An executor possesses the legal title of that which belonged to the testator, and that estate draws with it all legal remedies, to recover or gain the possession. This legal estate, however, is only a trust, which he may easily part with to the cestui que trust, and his assent is necessary to the taking of this title by the cestui que trust, and by that assent he does neither more nor less than part with this legal title. But it is not necessary to prove an express assent. It may be inferred from his acts as certainly and conclusively, as from an express grant. Now the proof here is clear, that all the children of the testator and his widow, of whom the executors were part, united in making this division and agreement, that each should hold the share allotted to him or her. The assent to this division, and the making thereof, and acquiescence therein, was conclusive evidence of the assent of the executors, that each legatee should take and hold the title designed by the will, and there was no countervailing proof. The court below could not have been more or less blamable, if it had refused to instruct the jury, that if John Dykes the elder had no will the plaintiffs could not recover, than it was in refusing the instruction asked. *6 Another example of the same sort as to proof of an executor's assent. It may, however, have been intended by this instruction, to require the court to say, that although the children of the testator had the assent of the executors, yet it was necessary for the plaintiffs, who took the remainder only, to have their assent to that estate also. In this point of view, it may deserve further notice. We are not willing to say that it is necessary for those in remainder to have any other assent than that given to the holder of the particular estate; one assent follows the estate, and assents to the whole of it. The executor by that assent, parts with the legal estate, which follows the property, to the remainder men, and does not return to the executor, unless the will should so direct. Of course, on the death of William Dykes, the legal estate went to his children. An executor's assent to the tenant for life as to his estate is sufficient for the remaindermen, and after his death the legal estate passes to them. It is now insisted in this court, that there is no proof that William Dykes is dead, or if there is, that he died before the commencement of the present suit. It seems very evident from the whole record, which has noticed every point, that this question is made here, for the first time, and that the fact was not contested in the court below, and the presumption is violent, that the proof on that point was complete there, but left defective in the record by the pensman, who drafted the exception. The plaintiffs in their instruction asked, hypothecated it expressly upon the fact, that William Dykes was dead before this suit was brought. The defendant there, in some of his instructions asked, clearly assumes the fact of the death of William Dykes before this suit. Some of the witnesses speak of him as deceased, and others mention his death, although none of them speak of the precise time of his death. Under such circumstances, we gather enough from the record to convince us that the death of William Dykes was understood and taken on the trial of the cause, to have happened in due time. If it had not, the fatal effect of it to this suit was too apparent to have escaped the counsel of the appellant, who seems to have conducted the cause with great vigilance in the court below. Where both parties had hypothecated their instructions, on a material fact easily proved or disproved, and it is evidently disputed here for the first time; this court will be satisfied with evidence in the bill of exceptions conducing in any degree to prove it. The defendant exhibited a regular bill of sale, from William Dykes in his life time, conveying Nan, as a slave for life, for a valuable consideration, in which he is named in his individual right, without any allusion to his executorial character. The defendant below, asked the court to instruct the jury, that the evidence conduced to prove a sale by William Dykes, as executor, and that as executor, he had a right to sell, and having done so, the purchaser could hold the slaves, although the sale might not be necessary for the payment of debts.--This instruction was refused; and we think correctly. For although, as executor he might once have had a right to sell, yet, by his assent to the legacy, he had elected to hold the slave in his own right, and not as executor, and he had surrendered his title as executor, and there is no proof that he acted in this sale, in his executorial character, and the bare fact of his being an executor, could afford no aid to the appellant, or furnish proof whereon to base this instruction. *7 Where an executor is a legatee with others of the life estate in a number of slaves, and a division is made, and he afterwards holding as legatee in severalty, sells without naming himself executor, it can not be inferred he sold as executor. The last ground relied on by the appellant, is the lapse of time during which he has held these slaves since his purchase, claiming them as his absolute property--not the lapse of time since the death of William Dykes, but after his sale to the appellant, until the death of said William. It is insisted, that the remainder in these slaves bequeathed to the children of William Dykes, was a contingent one, and that an alienation by the holder of the particular estate of all title and an adverse holding under it tended to destroy the particular estate, and that whatever lessened or defeated a particular estate, tends to defeat the contingent remainder. Does the sale of the entire estate in a slave by tenant for life bar or destroy the contingent remainder? We readily concede that the remainder in this case is contingent. Remainders are contingent when the estate is limited to take effect, either to a dubious and uncertain person, or upon a dubious and uncertain event. This belongs to the former class. The bequest is to a general description of persons, and not by name. Of course that body or number of persons, to-wit. the children of Wiliam Dykes was liable to diminution or increase before the determination of the particular estate. If any were born after making the will, they were entitled to claim. If any died afterwards, their representatives could not. Of course the number existing, if any existed, on the termination of the particular estate, could alone take under the bequest, and as that number was uncertain, as to part, and as to its entire existence, at the death of William Dykes, the younger, the remainder would not vest till his death. See  Ewing's heirs v. Hundley's executors, 4 Litt. Rep. 346. A devise to W. for life, and at his death to his children forever, gives to the children a contingent remainder to vest on W.'s death in his children then living, excluding the representatives of such as may have died. If the remainder had been vested, there could have been no doubt according to the former decisions of this court, that no time elapsed during the continuance of the life estate, could be counted as forming a bar to the recovery. But in case of a contingent remainder, we have found no precedent in this court on that point. Where the remainder is vested no adverse possession during the particular estate will bar the remainderman. We concede, as held by this court, in the case of  May's heirs v. Hite, 5 Litt. Rep. 307, that whatever tends to defeat a particular estate, will defeat a contingent remainder; of course a bar by the statute of limitations against the former, would be decisive against the latter. Contingent remainder in land is defeated by the bar of the claim of the tenant of the particular estate, by the statute of limitations--It is otherwise as to chattels. *8 But this doctrine applies to real estate, and is appled to it by this court in the case cited; and the reason for it is, that real estate required livery of seizin and there must always be a tenant on the precipa. No length of possession adverse to the tenant of the particular estate in slaves during his estate will bar a contingent remainder. But these reasons do not apply to chattels, and we can find no case in which a contingent estate in chattels, has been defeated by the destruction of the particular estate, or where the alienation of the holder of the particular estate could prejudice those in remainder, although the remainder was contingent.--It may be a case of compassion for innocent purchasers, that a contingency should happen, which helped an adverse claimant to an exemption from the effect of the act of limitations, but it results from what a former holder of the estate has done by limiting it, and while the will making power enables testators thus to limit, what they devise, and our statutes of limitations remains as it is, this court can afford no remedy for the hardship. The statute never attaches till the cause of action arises, and here no cause of action to the appellees did, or could accrue, till the happening of the contingency. See Bacon Abr. Guil. Ed. 474. Of course it follows, that no time can be computed to form the bar, except what elapsed after the death of William Dykes, and no such time is made out in this case. The judgment of the court below, must, therefore, be affirmed with costs and damages. Judgment for costs and damages. OCTOBER 10, 1826. PETITION FOR A RE-HEARING, BY R. H. CHINN AND J. J. CRITTENDEN, ESQ'RS. The counsel for Boone respectfully solicit a re-hearing of this case. The novelty of the case, its great importance to their client, and its acknowledged hardship, will afford a sufficient apology for troubling the court with this petition. The plaintiffs in the court below claim the slaves in question, under an executory devise or bequest, in the will of John Dykes, to take effect upon the termination of the life estate, given by the same will, to Wm. Dykes. This will was made in 1784, and recorded in the state of Virginia, after the death of the testator, in the year 1786. Wm. Dykes, the devisee, brought to this country the negro woman from whom the slaves in contest are descended, and in the year 1791, sold her to Boone for a full and fair price; and Boone and those claiming under him, ever after had the peaceable and unquestioned possession of them, until after the death of William Dykes, and about the time of the commencement of this suit in 1823. Boone then, for the first time, heard of the right asserted by the plaintiffs. That right has been successfully asserted by them, and notwithstanding the long lapse of time, and adverse possession of Boone, they have recovered a judgment for the slaves in controversy, and this court has affirmed that judgment. If real property had been the subject of the devise, then the devise to the plaintiffs would, no doubt, have been considered a contingent remainder; and that remainder would have been barred by anything that barred or destroyed the particular estate; and in such case, the purchase of Boone and his long adverse possession, would have prevented any recovery from him. But this doctrine is supposed to apply to real estate only, and that no case can be found in which a contingent estate in chattels has been defeated by the destruction of the particular estate, &c. *9 It seems strange that the law, ever jealous of perpetuities, or unalienable interests, should permit contingent interests in real estate to be defeated and barred, and yet should hold, that the same contingent interests, in personal estate, are not to be subjected to the same rule. The intricate doctrines of contingent remainders, and executory devises, are not familiar in this country to the profession, and it is freely admitted by the counsel in this case that, although they have not been altogether idle on the subject, they have not yet made that thorough and satisfactory examination which they desired to do, and which the importance of the case deserves. It is admitted that the general rule seems to be, that contingent interests in personalty, are unaffected by those acts or circumstances which may have barred or destroyed the preceding or particular estate; but this rule is not without its exceptions. In the case of the Executors of Moffat v. Strong, 10th Johns, 17, Ch. J. Kent, in delivering the opinion of the court, says, "there may be cases in which the persons in remainder can not, and ought not, to pursue personal property in the hands of a bona fide holder; as a purchaser or creditor under the first legatee. The case of negotiable paper, and of money bequeathed, will be of that kind; and there may be other cases where the interest of commerce and of credit, require that the purchaser should be protected." If the rule of law which secures such future contingent interests is not perfectly imperio is and inflexible; if that judicial discretion, to which it entirely owes its origin, is not altogether incapable of controlling its operation, by making just exceptions from it, and if there may be other cases where a purchaser should be protected; it seems impossible to imagine one having more irresistible claims to that protection, than the case now before the court. Boone was a bona fide purchaser, for a full--a high price. He had no notice of the claim of the plaintiffs below. The only written evidence of that claim was recorded in another state, and they, although living in Boone's immediate neighborhood, were fraudulently silent. Their claim "was talked of in the family" only. This proves their knowledge of their claim, and the fraudulency of their silence. Had they, at an early period, made known their rights, and sought that protection of them which a court of chancery would have afforded, the injury to Boone would have been comparatively small, and that to Boggs (the purchaser from Boone,) entirely prevented. Boone might have obtained indemnity, or a return of his money from Dykes, and have saved all the care, anxiety, trouble and expense incident to the rearing a family of young negroes. Parties who have thus stood by for such a length of time in silence, when justice, honesty and fair dealing required them to speak, ought not to be favoured by law. And although mere lapse of time (during the life of Wm. Dykes,) might not affect them, or bring their case within any statute of limitation, yet when coupled with the other circumstances of this case, it is such an evidence of fraud, or acquiescence, as ought to preclude them from recovering. An executory devisee may release his interest. Ought not such a release to be presumed, if all others grounds fail? *10 But at the date of John Dykes' will, and at the time of his death, were not slaves real property, with this only exception, that no more remote estate could be limited by them by last will, than might be limited of chattels? And if so, it is contended that the devise in the will of John Dykes is a contingent remainder of the real estate limited to the children of Wm. Dykes, and as such, has been barred and destroyed by the adverse possession of Boone, which barred and destroyed the particular estate of Wm. Dykes. Legal presumptions are in many cases entertained, more for the purposes of justice, than because we really believe the thing presumed. It appears to the counsel that this doctrine is not inapplicable to the present case. They ought to have released their interest; and that lays a strong foundation for the presumption. Every just and moral consideration prompted to such a release. The sale of the negroes by Wm. Dykes was necessary, to procure for them the means of subsistence and common comfort. They were almost in a state of nakedness and starvation, and the "high" price paid by Boone, was, no doubt, applied to their relief. Boone, in effect, paid them some forty years ago, and in equity and justice they ought to be presumed to have surrendered their interest to him as early as they became capable of so doing. It is further contended, that the record exhibits no proof that two of the plaintiffs, Seeders and Alexander, are entitled to any interest in the slaves. It is true, that in the bill of execptions, the "plaintiffs," generally, are spoken of as the children of William Dykes--and that Wm. Dykes is spoken of as the father of the "plaintiffs;" but not one single title of evidence is set down in proof of the fact that they are the children of Wm. Dykes. It is impossible to believe that Bennet Seeders and Wm. Alexander are the sons of Wm. Dykes, or at least no such strange presumption can be indulged without much stronger proof than that furnished by the general appellations given to the plaintiffs, as above stated. The names of these two plaintiffs contradict absolutely the idea of their being the children of William Dykes. It is little less than ludicrous to frame any such presumption. If they are not his children, there is a total want of testimony to prove any right in them. In point of fact, they may have married daughters of Wm. Dykes, but of that the record contains no suggestion. The counsel will forbear to trouble the court further at the present. They earnestly solicit a rehearing of the cause, and can not forbear indulging in the hope that further consideration of the case, and of the law applicable to it, will result in a decision which may rescue their respectable old client from that ruin which is otherwise inevitable. The petition was overruled, and the original opinion stands unaltered, and the judgment affirmed. January 31. Chinn and Crittenden, for appellant; Wickliffe, for the appellee. Ky.App. 1826. Boone v. Dykes' Legatees 3 T.B.Mon. 529, 19 Ky. 529, 1826 WL 1339 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
