(Cite as: 4 Litt. 315,  14 Ky. 315 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1293 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bowman v. Dunn, Violett, &c. Dec. 4, 1823. *1 FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 127 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k127 k. Recovery of Actual Damages or Mesne Profits in Action of Ejectment. Most Cited Cases Where the successful claimant elects to compel the occupant to keep the land, he can recover no rents, either before or after the decision in his favor. BIBB for plaintiff; TODD for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Bowman, the plaintiff in error, recovered land of the defendants held by adverse titles, and commissioners were appointed to value improvements, rents, waste, &c. under the acts of assembly concerning occupying claimants of lands. Upon the return of the report, the ??alue of the improvements exceeded three-fourths of the value of the land, and Bowman elected to compel the occupants to keep the land, and released his better title, and gave bond and security to refund, and the occupants tendered bond with security for the price of the land. There were some rents after judgments, reported in favor of Bowman, and he moved the court to direct these rents, in addition to the price of the land, to be included in said bonds given by the occupants, o?? that the court should render judgment for the amount in his favor. The court below refused to do either, and this forms the only question for our consideration, and depends upon the meaning of some expressions used in the occupying claimant law of 1812. Where the successful claimant relinquishes the land to the occupant, he can recover no rents, either before or after the decision in his favor. The eighth and ninth section of that act, direct what is to be done, if the improvements exceed not three-fourths of the value of the land. The successful claimant is to give bond and security for the amount, or the occupants, in case of his failure, may keep the land, they securing the price. The tenth section is directory, in case the improvements exceed three-fourths of the value of the land. The successful claimant may then have his election to take the price for the land. To this section, two provisos are annexed, on the last of which this question rests. They are as follows: "Provided, however, that the successful claimant shall release his claim to the occupant and give bond and approved security to refund the money, in case the occupant or improver should be evicted by any claim paramount to that so released: Provided, always, that any rents, damages, waste or profits, as aforesaid reported against the occupant, shall be deducted by the court from the estimated value of the improvements; or where the case may require, the court shall render judgment therefor, in favor of the successful claimant, against the occupant or occupants respectively, unless the payment thereof in two equal annual instalments, together with interest, shall be secured by bond with approved security." *2 The meaning and application of these two provisos, will be better understood by considering them to be provisos not only to the tenth, but also, to the eighth and ninth sections. Thus, the first applies to a case which may arise under the eighth and ninth sections, where the occupant elects to keep the land, as well as to the tenth, where the successful claimant elects to compel the occupant to take it. So the second proviso applies exclusively to cases arising under the eighth and beginning of the ninth section, where the improvements are to be paid for. In that case, by this proviso, rents, damages, waste, &c. are first to be deducted, before judgment rendered or bond given for improvements, which cannot happen in the case provided for in the tenth section. To this direction is added, the authority to render judgment for rents, damages and waste, where the case so require, unless bond and security are given. It would be contrary to the tenor of the act to compel the occupant to pay the rent, from which the act carefully screens him, in a case where he paid for and keeps the land, and the other party gets all he is entitled to in the price. The case which "so requires" the court to render judgment for the rent, &c. cannot, therefore, be the case where the successful claimant parts with the land and receives the price, and the words "where the case may require," may be satisfied by applying them to cases where the rents exceed the improvements, and leave a balance against the occupant in favor of the successful claimant. In that case, the rents, &c. are to be secured either by bond or judgment, when the successful claimant gets the land. It is admitted, that such cases would be rare; but still they are possible, and for them this proviso was intended. And we cannot, by construction, when another meaning is apparent, say, that this proviso intended to give the rents, waste &c. to the successful claimant, in addition to the price of his land, without a more express direction. It is true, it may be contended that the law intended to give the rents, after the land is proved to belong to the successful claimant, to him, until he parts with the land, as a moral right. To this, however, it may be answered, that rents, damages and waste, are put upon the same footing, and it can hardly be supposed, that the legislature intended that the occupant should pay the successful claimant for damages and waste, which could not injure any but the occupant himself, after he purchased the land, especially as the occupant takes the land valued in its natural state, as if no such damages and waste had been committed. It could not, in such case, be morally right to compel the occupant to pay for these damages and waste, and yet make him bear the loss of them out of the estate. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Bowman v. Dunn 4 Litt. 315, 14 Ky. 315, 1823 WL 1293 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
