(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 592,  22 Ky. 592 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1187 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Shehan's Heirs v. Barnett's Heirs. Apr. 9, 1828. *1 Interpleaders. Rescission of Contracts. Demurrer. Private Statutes for Sales of Infant's Land. Constitutional Law. APPEAL FROM THE GRAYSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 271 162 Executors and Administrators 162VI Claims Against Estate 162VI(E) Priorities and Payment 162k270 Property Available for Payment 162k271 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Statute taking estate of decedent from heirs and applying it to decedent's debts was not unconstitutional. Executors and Administrators 162 k 320 162 Executors and Administrators 162VIII Sales and Conveyances Under Order of Court 162VIII(A) When Authorized 162k320 k. Statutory provisions. Most Cited Cases Statute directing administrator to sell intestate's lands and dispose of proceeds in discharge of debts, distributing balance as other assets, was not unconstitutional. Statutes 361 k 1642(2) 361 Statutes 361XI General and Special Laws 361XI(A) In General 361k1636 Particular Laws as General or Special;   Validity 361k1642 Property 361k1642(2) k. Wills, estates, and trusts. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 361k82) The legislature has power, by private acts, to subject lands of a decedent to the payment of his debts. Constitutional Law 92 k 2353 92 Constitutional Law 92XX Separation of Powers 92XX(B) Legislative Powers and Functions 92XX(B)2 Encroachment on Judiciary 92k2353 k. Disposition of property in general. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 92k54) Executors and Administrators 162 k 137 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(B) Real Property and Interests Therein 162k136 Sale 162k137 k. Authority and duty in general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 92k54) A statute directing an administrator to sell the intestate's lands, and dispose of the proceeds in discharge of his debts, and distribute the balance, if any, in his hands, as other assets, and directing the widow to unite in the conveyance, was held not to be unconstitutional, as it regarded the intestate's children. Constitutional Law 92 k 4089 92 Constitutional Law 92XXVII Due Process 92XXVII(G) Particular Issues and Applications 92XXVII(G)3 Property in General 92k4087 Wills, Trusts, Probate, Inheritance, and  Dower 92k4089 k. Proceedings. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 92k278(1)) A legislative act taking the estate of a decedent from the heirs, and applying it to the payment of decedent's debts, is not unconstitutional, as depriving the heirs of their property without due process of law, since it merely provides a more expeditious mode of enforcing a creditor's right to have the estate subjected to the payment of debts, which right existed prior to the passage of the act. Interpleader 222 k 10 222 Interpleader 222I Right to Interpleader 222k5 Grounds of Relief 222k10 k. Interest or independent liability of person in  possession or debtor. Most Cited Cases A purchaser in possession shall not be allowed to compel adverse claimants to interplead, that the true owner may assert his claim against him, so that he may thereby get rid of a purchase which he has made of the adverse claim, under which he held the land, since he has an interest adverse to claimant. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 On the 14th December, 1796, the legislature passed an act reciting that Joseph Barnett of Hardin county, had died intestate, leaving but little personal estate, and considerable lands; that he had sold, and not conveyed many of these lands, and others would be lost for the want of attention, and as nobody would administer on his estate, his creditors were suffering. The estate is then vested in certain commissioners by name, who are directed to convey, in the fulfillment of his contracts for land; to sell his personal estate and pay his debts; and if that proved insufficient, to sell, assign, transfer and convey so much of his lands as are necessary for that purpose, on a credit by the act directed, and to apply the proceeds in discharge of his debts. The same commissioners were authorized to sue for debts due to the estate, and were made subject to suits by creditors. In short, the commissioners were administrators created by statute with the additional vestiture of real estate and a power over it. See session acts of 1796, page 10. Statute appointing commissioners over the estate of Joseph Barnett, for the benefit of his creditors. In the year 1797, the commissioners sold a tract of land, under the act which had been surveyed, but not patented, and they assigned the plat and certificate to the purchasers, in whose names the patent issued. Bill of Barnett's heirs to recover lands sold under the statute, on the ground of its invalidity. The heirs of Barnett, in this cause have impleaded the surviving patentees and the heirs of the deceased, in a suit in equity, to compel a surrender back of the legal estate. They do not charge any improper conduct of the commissioners in making the sale, or that it was unnecessary for the payment of the debts, but rely exclusively on the ground, that this act was unconstitutional, and that the legislature had no power to take away the estate of their ancestor, and vest it in commissioners, or authorize the sale thereof, and this forms the principal question for our decision. The court below decided it in favor of Barnett's heirs, and decreed to them a conveyance of the estate. Decree of the circuit court. We would here remark that the heirs of Barnett, and these patentees were brought to this controversy by a bill of interpleader, filed by Andrew Rowan, (who has no interest in the title, but lived upon the land under another claim), alleging that the disputed claim was better than his; that each of the present parties claimed it, and praying that they might be compelled to litigate their rights with each other, and the true owner might assert his claim against him, so that he might thereby get clear of a purchase which he had made of the adverse claim, under which he held the land. Purchaser in possession shall not call in adversary claimants to decide between themselves, and for the successful party to then assail him, that he may dissolve his contract of purchase. We have no hesitation in saying, that such a bill of interpleader ought not to have been allowed according to the rules and usages of a court of equity, *3 Demurrer in chancery. But yet, as the parties did not meet him by a demurrer, but waiving all, went into this controversy, after making up a proper issue for the purpose, we feel ourselves bound to decide the controversy disregarding, on the final hearing, the mode by which it was introduced. As to Rowan, the court below dismissed his bill separately, and we have affirmed that decree, so that he is now as much hors de combat, as if he never entered into it. This is not the first, nor can we expect it to be the last case of judicial controversy, arising out of legislative disposition of the real estate of infant heirs. Private acts of this character are numerous, and in a series of years, many estates will be affected by them, and as many judicial controversies may arise out of them, and whether some of the different classes of them may not turn out to be constitutional violations, may become a serious question to this community. The act now under consideration belongs to the class which have appropriated the estate to the payment of debts. Act appointing the commissioners to sell the lands of Joseph Barnett deceased, for payment of his debts, is valid. Lands have been subjected in this State to the payment of debts; of course, they are a fund of credit, under the eye of the contracting creditor, to which he looks for remuneration. The power of the legislature to subject lands to debts has never been questioned, and has been sanctioned by every department of government. The estate is taken into the hands of the executive officers, sold and conveyed, and the debtor is stripped of his title without his express assent at the moment, and not only the adult contracting debtor is thus reached, but the estate is pursued in the hands of the infant heir, to whom it has descended, and it is applied by the sheriff to the payment of the debts of the ancestor. If this can be done by the sheriff, we perceive no good reason why an administrator or commissioner, may not be substituted for the sheriff, and why the modus operandi may not be changed, while the rights of all the parties are preserved inviolate. The estate in this case was liable, and pledged by the law to the creditors. It might have been reached by other modes of proceeding, more costly to the parties, and more dilatory, and not more safe. We, therefore, believe it competent for the legislature to apply this special remedy, and subject the estate. We have said this is not the first case of the kind. In Kibby v. Chitwood's adm'rs. 4 Mon. 90; a question, the same in principle, has been decided, and it has there been held, that when real estate ought, by the general laws, to be sold for the payment of debts, the legislature might subject it by a special act for that purpose, when the rights of the parties concerned, were held inviolate. That case settles this. It is true there the estate was sold by the administrators, here by commissioners. There a mere authority was given, here the estate, by the terms of the act, is vested in trust. The difference between the administrator and commissioner can not be material. *4 Such acts may either appoint the administrator of the decedent, or a special commissioner, to make the sale and conveyance. And we have not thought it necessary to enquire, whether the act in this case really stripped the heirs of Barnett of their estate, and conveyed it to the commissioners. For if it be granted that the legislature could not, and of course did not do this, still there is an ample grant of authority in the act to the commissioners to sell and convey, and if such authority can be given, and the estate would pass thereby as held in Kibby v. Chitwood's adm'rs., it is wholly immaterial whether the title did, or did not vest in the commissioners. The act might be effectual on this point, though it was inoperative in others. Query, whether such a statute can vest the legal estate in the commissioner, or only authorize him to sell and convey the estate descended to and remaining in, the infants. We are still disposed to confine this decision exclusively to one class of cases, to-wit: to the subjecting lands to debts by special act, which before were subject to the same debts by the general laws of the land, without effecting materially the rights of the parties; and we would not be understood as giving our sanction to other appropriations of the real estate of minors, for other purposes. It will be time enough to decide upon other classes when they occur. Query, of the validity of statutes authorizing the sale of the lands of infants for any other purpose than the payment of debts. The decree of the court below in favor of Barnett's heirs, compelling the patentees and their heirs to convey the land, must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded with directions to dismiss their bill of interpleader with costs. Crittenden, for appellants. Ky.App. 1828. Shehan's Heirs v. Barnett's Heirs 6 T.B.Mon. 592, 22 Ky. 592, 1828 WL 1187 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
