(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 259,  22 Ky. 259 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1674 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Dudley, &c. v. Grayson, &c. Dec. 3, 1827. *1 Amendments. New Demises?? Aliens. Conveyances. Pretence Titles. Bills of Exceptions. Evidence. Records of Trustees of Towns. Pedigree. Presumptions. ERROR TO THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT; JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Aliens, Immigration, and Citizenship 24 k 131(2) 24 Aliens, Immigration, and Citizenship 24II Status, Rights, Privileges, Duties, and Disabilities 24k128 Property 24k131 Real Property 24k131(2) k. Who May Question Capacity. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 24k6(2)) The title of an alien to land purchased is good against everybody but the state, and can only be devested by office found, or by some act done by the state to acquire possession. Aliens, Immigration, and Citizenship 24 k 131(3) 24 Aliens, Immigration, and Citizenship 24II Status, Rights, Privileges, Duties, and Disabilities 24k128 Property 24k131 Real Property 24k131(3) k. Purchase or Sale. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 24k7) The act of 1798, allowing sales of land in the adverse possession of another, embraces aliens. Death 117 k 3 117 Death 117I Evidence of Death 117k3 k. Admissibility of Evidence as to Death. Most Cited Cases Where it is sought to establish a person's death, testimony of a man who resided in the same state, but who was not a member of the family of the person supposed to be dead, is not admissible where it is not shown what means he had of knowing the fact. Ejectment 142 k 76 142 Ejectment 142III Pleading and Evidence 142k76 k. Amended and Supplemental Pleadings. Most Cited Cases A declaration in ejectment cannot be amended by adding a new demise. Evidence 157 k 344 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k344 k. Municipal Records. Most Cited Cases Authenticated copies of the records of trustees of towns are competent evidence in controversies about the titles to the lots in the towns. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a writ of error to reverse a judgment in ejectment, rendered against the plaintiffs in error, for a lot in Louisville. Both parties claim the lot under Archibald Lockheart, deceased; the plaintiffs in error by conveyance from Elizabeth Lockheart, who claims to be sole heiress of the decedent; and the defendants under James Lockheart, who claims to be the heir. Issue between the parties. After issue joined to the original demise laid in the declaration, in the name of F. W. S. Grayson alone, the court, on motion of the plaintiff below, suffered a new count to be filed, containing a demise in the name of James Lockheart, as a new lessor, shewing for cause, that there was a blank left in the original declaration, which was intended to be filled up with the name of James Lockheart, but was neglected. The defendant below objected and excepted to this opinion of the court. *2 Amendment of the declaration in ejectment by the addition of a new demise. This is not the first time we have been called to decide upon the propriety of adding clauses in the name of new lessors, and as lately as the case of Elliott v. Bohannon, &c. 4 Monroe 124; Cuney's heirs v. Tibb's heirs, ib. 442, as well as previous cases; we have held that such an amendment in general, was improper, and we see no reason for attempting to make this case an exception to the rule. We might as well permit a plaintiff who had issued his writ and declared in the name of A, to insert the name of B also, and make it essentially a new suit, because he neglected to do so at first. In this case the amendment did take a considerable effect on the evidence, and enabled the plaintiff below to meet the defendants on ground different from that on which he stood on the original demise. Declaration in ejectment can not be amended by adding a new demise, more than a plaintiff in any action can add a co-plaintiff. The amendment was improper and ought not to have been allowed, and after a reversal the new count must be stricken from the record and the plaintiff brought to the ground on which he originally stood on the first demise. Direction for the new demise to be struck out, on the return of the cause. But there are other questions which may occur in a subsequent trial, and which are worthy of notice. James Lockheart, under whom the plaintiffs below claimed as heir, conveyed to Floyd, and Floyd to Grayson. It was offered to be proved that Floyd was an alien when he accepted this deed, and conveyed away the title, and this proof was rejected, and an exception taken. We can not see any purpose that this proof could answer, or that it tended to establish any point necessary in the defense. It is true that it is not proven that Floyd was even a resident alien for two years, to bring him within the act of 1800, 1 Dig. 80, which authorizes aliens, other than alien enemies, to take, hold and pass lands. But independent of that act by the principles of the common law, an alien can take and hold lands in this State, and his title is good against all the world except the government, and even against the government till inquest of office found. This principle has been so often recognized by this court and the Supreme Court of the United States, that it is unnecessary to adduce authority to support it. It has been held that an alien can take by devise, and even as a patentee from government. If he can purchase and hold, it seems necessarily to follow, that he can sell and convey the title which he holds, and that such title will be as valid in the hands of the grantee as in his own. Aliens may purchase, take by grant from the state or by devise and convey the title, or hold against all the world, till divested by office found, by common law without the aid of the act of 1800. But it was proved that when this sale and conveyance to Floyd was made, the lot in question was in the adverse possession of others, and it is urged that the act of 1799, 1 Dig. L. K. 215, which has been held sufficient to authorize the sale and conveyance of lands derived from the laws of Virginia, while it is in the adverse possession of others, embraces only citizens, and does not extend to aliens, and enable them to purchase lands adversely possessed. We can not give this act such a construction. Its words are "no person procuring an interest," &c. and it is not confined to citizens. The word person must be held sufficient to embrace every one who can purchase, and as we have seen, that an alien can purchase, it must embrace him also, as the law stood at the time this conveyance was made. The court, therefore, did not err in excluding this evidence. *3 Act of '98, allowing sales of land, in the adversary possession of others, embracing aliens. The minutes or orders of the trustees of Louisville, were given in evidence and objected to; but on what ground the objection was made, the bill of exceptions does not inform us. It has been urged in argument, that it was because they were verified by a certificate of the Clerk of the board only. If this is correct, then the objection ought to have been, because they were not shown to be minutes of the board, and the bill of exceptions expressly tells us, that the document offered, was part of the minutes of the board, and they were objected to, as such, and the inference follows, that it was on the ground that they were irrelevant and incompetent. Exception to the admission of a paper purporting to be the minutes of the trustees of Louisville, certified by the clerk, not stating the grounds of objection, but calling the paper a copy of the minutes of the board, does not raise the question here of the competence of the clerk's certificates, but the paper shall be taken as truly the minutes. We have no doubt that the minutes of the trustees of towns in this Commonwealth, may often become necessary evidence, in trials of titles to town property. They may show who are the trustees, or remove an uncertainty, as to what lot was intended, or as in this case may tend to show that the conveyance was executed on a day different from that on which it bears date, which was an important fact to be proved, because on the day of the date, the power of the trustees to convey, was suspended by law. But how these minutes are to be verified, is a different question. There is no provision authorizing their verification by the Clerk. It would then seem to follow, that they ought to be verified by oath, and proved to be true copies from the real book of the trustees, kept by the proper officer and recognized by the board as such.   Owings v. Speed, 5 Wheat. 420; 1 Stark. on evidence 299, and authorities there cited. But we can not conceive that the objection was taken below on this ground, from the language of the exception taken. Copies of the records of the trustees of the towns in Kentucky, proved to be correctly transcribed from the proper books, may be competent evidence in controversies about the titles to the lots. To establish title in the lessors of the plaintiff, they gave evidence conducing to prove that Archibald Lockheart had but two legitimate sons, and that his wife, by a previous marriage had a son, who was half brother to these two sons. That one of these sons of A. Lockheart was dead, having died long after the father, and left James Lockheart the only surviving heir, and to get clear of the descent to the half brother, at the death of one of these sons, the plaintiff proved that many years since, the half brother went to Missouri with his mother; that in 1804, he was seen there, at work on a mill, he being a mechanic. A witness was then introduced who deposed that about six years since, he was in Missouri, and was there told by a Mr. Johnson, that this half brother was dead. This evidence was objected to as incompetent to prove the death of the half brother, and the objection overruled. *4 Evidence offered to prove the death of a co-heir. Some indulgence to evidence of an inferior grade is given when offered to prove the death of a person residing abroad; but we have met with no case of such latitude in that indulgence, as the present. Who this Mr. Jonhson was, or where he resided, or whether he had the means of knowing the fact, is not shown. The evidence is the bare sayings of a solitary man in Missouri; and certainly his being in the same State or Territory, is the only reason which can be urged for admitting the evidence. The sayings of relatives of the deceased, and perhaps of the neighbors or intimate acquaintances have been admitted to prove death, especially those made when there is no pending controversy, and when the mind of the speaker is so evenly balanced, as to be supposed to have no motive for telling falsehood. But this is far from being the case here. For any thing that appears, it is the saying of a solitary stranger, admitted as sufficient to prove death, on which the title of the parties essentially depends. Death of a person residing abroad, how proved. Proof of the statement of one person in Missouri, where the person alleged to be dead had resided, is insufficient to prove him dead. Besides, the evidence is materially defective in another respect. To answer the purpose for which it was introduced, it was not only necessary to prove that the half brother was dead, but also that he died without issue, which the evidence was far from proving; see Stark. on ev. tit. Pedigree, passim. The evidence was, therefore, improperly admitted. It may not be presumed a man died without issue, but when the fact is necessary, the evidence must shew it. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Warden Pope, for plaintiffs; Denny, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Dudley v. Grayson 6 T.B.Mon. 259, 22 Ky. 259, 1827 WL 1674 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
