(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 208,  19 Ky. 208 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1271 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cole v. Hanks. Apr. 20, 1826. *1 Pleading. Evidence. Parol. Record. Acquittal. Allegations and Proof. ERROR TO THE ESTILL CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Malicious Prosecution 249 k 55 249 Malicious Prosecution 249V Actions 249k46 Pleading 249k55 k. Issues, Proof, and Variance. Most Cited  Cases In an action for malicious prosecution, plaintiff alleged that he was brought before a grand jury, and was discharged by the jury returning the bill of indictment exhibited against him, "Not a true bill."  To support this allegation he introduced parol evidence that the grand jury took up the case and heard the evidence without any bill of indictment being laid before them, and determined not to indict him.  Held that, under the pleading, he must prove his discharge by the record, and that the variance is fatal. Evidence 157 k 158(7) 157 Evidence 157V Best and Secondary Evidence 157k158 Facts or Transactions Described in or Evidenced by Writing 157k158(7) k. In Criminal Cases. Most Cited  Cases If an indictment was returned by the grand jury, or if an accused was acquitted, these facts can only be proved by the original record, or by an examined copy. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action on the case for malicious prosecution. On the trial of the issue of not guilty, the counsel for the defendant below, moved the court to instruct the jury as in case of a non-suit; but the court overruled that motion, and the defendant excepted, and has prosecuted this writ of error to reverse the judgment rendered against him, and the consideration of the decision of the court below overruling the motion to non-suit the plaintiff, presents the most material question for our consideration. Action for malicious prosecution; trial on not guilty; motion for non-suit overruled, and exception. We are of opinion that the motion ought to have prevailed. The allegations and proof of the plaintiff below disagreed too widely to sustain his action. Declaration. He alleges, in substance, that the defendant caused a justice of the peace to issue a warrant against him, on a charge of felony--whereby he was arrested and imprisoned a number of hours, and then brought before a justice of the peace, by whom, he was committed for further trial, and stood imprisoned many days, until he was, on the same charge, brought before a grand jury of the county, and by them and the court fully discharged out of custody, and by the grand jury found not guilty of the supposed offense, by their returning the bill of indictment, exhibited against him, not a true bill, by reason whereof he was discharged. To support these allegations, he introduced the warrant issued on the application of the defendant, and the constable's return thereon, stating that he had been brought before two justices of the peace, but it was not shewn how they disposed of him. He further proved by parol, that at the next circuit court, the grand jury in their retirement took up the case, and heard the evidence, without any bill of indictment being laid before them, and that they sent for the attorney of the commonwealth, who expounded to them the law upon the subject; whereupon the grand jury determined that they would neither present nor indict him, and no bill of indictment was ever written or laid before them, nor was any notice of the case taken on the records of the court or of any discharge produced *2 The evidence. It must be shewn in the declaration for malicious prosecution that the prosecution is determined-- --This is done by an averment that the grand jury returned the indictment not a true bill and plaintiff was thereupon discharged. The law is well settled that before this action can be maintained the prosecution must be determined, and how it was determined the plaintiff must shew in his declaration, in order that the court may see that it is really ended. But-- To maintain these allegations, (that the indictment was returned not a true bill and plaintiff discharged,) parol evidence is insufficient, the record must be produced. No doubt such a determination of the prosecution was sufficiently shewn by the allegations made in this declaration. But the plaintiff has not supported them by proof. He has confined himself to an acquittal of record, and then attempts to shew an acquittal without record, which is wholly inadmissible. For, "if the bill of indictment was returned by the grand jury not a true bill, or if the plaintiff was acquitted on the trial of the prosecution, these facts can only be proved by the original record, or by an examined copy of the record. Phil. Ev. 2 vol. p. 111. Evidence that plaintiff was carried before the justice of the peace, without any farther account of the matter, will not maintain the action. It is therefore, unnecessary for us to say whether the plaintiff below can or can not sustain any action, on the proof he has adduced, which drops the prosecution in silence after his appearance before two magistrates, and may yet be progressing; for he certainly can not support this action by the proof adduced, under the present state of the pleadings. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed, with costs, and the verdict be set aside and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Turner, for plaintiff; Breck, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Cole v. Hanks 3 T.B.Mon. 208, 19 Ky. 208, 1826 WL 1271 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
