(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 116,  22 Ky. 116 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1643 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hume, Longstreth, &c. v. Long's Representatives. Oct. 24, 1827. *1 Frauds. Chancery Jurisdiction. Practice in Chancery. Assignors and Assignees. Admissions. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 151(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30IV Right of Review 30IV(A) Persons Entitled 30k151 Parties or Persons Injured or Aggrieved 30k151(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Only the party or privy aggrieved by a judgment can appeal or bring error. Assignments 38 k 96 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k95 Rights of Assignee as Against Assignor 38k96 k. Right of Recourse. Most Cited  Cases Before the holder of an assigned obligation can charge the assignor, he must avail himself of all the means offered by law to enforce the payment of the assigned obligation from the principal, and, if the principal is dead, he must proceed against his representatives. Bills and Notes 56 k 254 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(A) Before Delivery to or Transfer by Payee 56k254 k. Necessity, to Charge Indorser, of Proceeding  Against Maker. Most Cited Cases Where holders of a note, having obtained judgment against the makers, failed to issue either a fi. fa. or a ca. sa., and did not dispose of bail given by one of the makers, or proceed against the representatives of the other, such neglect is conclusive against recovery from the indorsers. Bonds 58 k 87 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k87 k. Rights and Liabilities on Assignment or Sale. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k90) The holder of an assigned obligation must exhaust his remedy at law against the obligor, before he can charge the assignor. The death of the principal does not excuse him from proceeding against his representatives. Equity 150 k 180 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(B) Plea, Answer, and Disclaimer 150k177 Answer 150k180 k. Defenses in General. Most Cited  Cases Defendant in equity may set up claims purely legal in his answer, if they are connected with, or arise out of, the matter set up in the bill. Evidence 157 k 264 157 Evidence 157VII Admissions 157VII(E) Proof and Effect 157k264 k. Construction. Most Cited Cases An admission that the obligor was insolvent at the time of the making of an obligation is not an admission of his insolvency when the obligation fell due. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Statements of the bill. Long, the intestate of the defendant in error, filed his bill, alleging that he had become endorser of a small note for Henry F. Hume, in the Bank of Kentucky, and had continued to endorse on the renewals of said note, from time to time, and some times on blank paper; never having the least suspicion that Hume would practice any fraud or trick upon him, with the paper so endorsed; and some times, if the note was written, he never read it, before he endorsed it; still trusting to the honesty of Hume; and that in the summer 1817, on a like application to endorse a note for the renewal of the one in bank, he made the endorsement without looking at the paper; but some considerable time afterwards he discovered that the paper which he had endorsed was one for $2,500, drawn by George and John Sprowle to Willis A. Lee, and endorsed first by Lee, and then by himself, and delivered by said Hume to the agent and attorney of Longstreth, Bailey & Co. for some debt or dealings he had with them. That he immediately gave the agent notice of the fraud, and also gave notice to the Bank of Kentucky, where the note was payable, not to discount it. He makes Hume, Longstreth, Bailey & Co. defendants, and prays that the endorsement on the note may be cancelled and erased, and he be released from liability. Defendants made, and prayer of the bill. Hume never answered the bill, and as to him it was taken as confessed. Bill taken for confessed against Hume. Longstreth, Bailey & Co. answered the bill denying any kuowledge?? of the fraud and requiring proof thereof; alleging that they had judgments against Hume, in the United States court for the district of Kentucky, which he discharged by passing to their agent, this note, with others, as the returns on the execution will shew. They aver that they have pursued the makers of said notes George and John Sprowle to insolvency, without getting any thing; that George Sprowle died insolvent before any judgment against him, and process against John Sprowle had been ineffectual. They exhibit the record of their proceedings against the makers of the note, and make their answer a cross bill against Long, and pray a decree against him for the amount of the judgment and costs, rendered against Sprowle, on the aforesaid note. Answer of Longstreth & Co., and their cross bill against Long. Long answered their answer in the nature of a cross bill, relying on the fraud set forth in his bill, and protesting against their right to recover against him. Long's answer. The court decreed that the endorsement should be cancelled, and Long relieved from the effects thereof; and decided against the right of Longstreth, Bailey & Co. to recover against Long, and dismiss their complaint, with costs. Decree of the circuit court. The object of this writ of error is to reverse this decree. It is insisted for the plaintiffs in error, that the evidence is wholly insufficient to warrant the relief granted to Long, and that a decree ought to have been rendered, in favor of the plaintiffs in error, for the amount of the debt. *3 On the contrary it is insisted by the counsel for Long's representatives; that the evidence is sufficient to warrant the relief granted, and that if it is not, the result ought to be only a dismission of the bill of Long, and that the plaintiffs in error can have no decree against Long's representatives for their demand, because:-- First, a court of chancery can have no jurisdiction of their complaint, as their demand is purely legal, and Secondly, that if the court has jurisdiction of the claim, the plaintiffs in error have not shewn that they have pursued the makers of the note with such diligence as will entitle them to recover. It must be confessed that the evidence of the fraud of Hume is circumstantial only; but it is such as leaves an impression on the mind that the fraud was really practised. But without expressing any positive opinion upon it, there is another reason which operates against the reversal of the decree which we shall first consider. The evidence of the fraud not conclusive, and the consideration of that question waived. It is clear that if the plaintiffs in error have received no prejudice from the decree relieving Long, they will not be entitled to a reversal thereof; and this leads us to look into their complaint, and to examine the diligence with which they have pursued the makers of the note. For if they have lost their recourse against Long, by their supineness or neglect, he is discharged, and the court could not have erred in dismissing their complaint, and releasing Long from further danger. A party not prejudiced by a decree can not reverse it. It is true their claim against Long, on his endorsement, is one purely of a legal character; but we can still entertain no doubt of the jurisdiction of the chancellor over it, and he was competent to decide upon it in the way it is presented. By way of a cross bill, or an answer under our practice, in the nature of a cross bill, the defendant to the original suit may set up claims purely legal, provided they be connected with or arise out of the matter set up in the bill, and the jurisdiction of the chancellor can not be objected to. See Ford and Warren v. Sproule & Co. 2 Marsh. 528;  Head, &c. v. Perry, 1 Mon. 258, and authorities there cited. We have no doubt that this case comes within the rule laid down by these authorities, and that when Long came into equity, to obtain relief against this endorsement, it was competent for the defendants below not only to sustain its validity, but to set it up by way of claim on their part and call upon the chancellor to give it its full force against Long; and as they have chosen to do so, they are bound to support their claim as they would be bound to do in a court of law, and if they fail their claim must be decided against them. A defendant in chancery may rely upon matters purely legal, connected with the matters of the bill, for his defense; and by his cross bill, require the complainant to answer thereto. *4 The holder of an assigned obligation must avail himself of all the means afforded by law, to coerce the payment from the principal, and proceed against his representatives if the principal be dead, before he can charge the assignor. We have, accordingly, looked into the record filed of the suit at law against George and J. Sprowle, and find that so far from their having used due diligence in pursuing the makers of this note, they have stopped short on obtaining a judgment, and never issued any execution, when they were at the time entitled to both a fieri facias or a capias ad satisfaciendum, which they were bound to issue before reaching Long. Besides bail was given by John Sprowle, which is not disposed of; and this has been held necessary. Nor has there been any proceeding against George Sprowle's representatives since his death. The same diligence against the principal, is required in chancery, to charge the assignor, as at law. The neglect and omission to pursue the makers of the note, therefore, to insolvency are conclusive against the recovery against the endorsers, and the plaintiffs in error have lost nothing by the age of their endorsement. It is true Long alleges the insolvency of Sprowle, when the endorsement was made, but does not admit it, when the note fell due, which was a considerable time afterwards, and it was, therefore, incumbent on the plaintiffs to shew due diligence, by suit, to the end of the course which the law allowed them to pursue, and in doing this they have failed. An admission that an obligor was insolvent at the time of making the obligation, held not to be an admission of his insolvency when it fell due. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Mayes, for plaintiffs; Talbot and Haggin & Loughborough, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Hume v. Long's Representatives 6 T.B.Mon. 116, 22 Ky. 116, 1827 WL 1643 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
