(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 158,  10 Ky. 158 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1180 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Bell v. James Morehead. Dec. 11, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE LOGAN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 218(3) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k218 Hearing and Determination on Demurrer 302k218(3) k. Findings, Decision, Order, or Judgment. Most  Cited Cases On sustaining a demurrer to a plea in bar, no respondeat ouster is necessary. Bills and Notes 56 k 193 56 Bills and Notes 56VII Transfer 56VII(A) By Indorsement 56k193 k. Striking Out Indorsements. Most Cited  Cases The indorser of a note or bill, on again becoming the holder, may strike out indorsements subsequent to his, though some are indorsements in full. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a summons and petition on a note made payable and negotiable, without defalcation, at the Southern Bank of Kentucky, drawn by the defendant, now appellant, and payable to Thomas S. Slaughter, who assigned or endorsed it to the appellee. The defendant appeared and craved oyer of the note and assignment, and then pleaded that the note was assigned, at the commencement of the action, to the President, Directors and Co. of the Southern Bank of Kentucky, and verified the plea by the assignment or endorsement then existing thereon, in these words, "Pay the within to the president, directors and co. of the Southern bank of Kentucky." and signed by the plaintiff. The plaintiff's counsel moved the court to strike out the said endorsement, which the court permitted, and then the plaintiff demurred to the plea, and defendant joined in demurrer. The court gave judgment for the plaintiff on the demurrer, and the defendant then offering no other plea, the judgment was given for the debt. A note negotiated in bank, assumes the grade of a foreign bill, and the assignor of the note having taken it up from the bank, may expunge the assignment and sue in his own name. At a subsequent day it was discovered, that a judgment of respondeat ouster had not been formally rendered; and the court directed the judgment to be amended to read, that such judgment was rendered. At a subsequent day, the defendant offered a plea of the assignment, the same in substance as the former, and also a plea of payment, without shewing any reason for their not being offered before. The court refused to allow these pleas, and let the judgment stand. To all these points the defendant excepted, and has appealed to this court. On sustaining a demurrer to a plea in bar, no respondeat ouster is necessary. This note, on its face, is of a character that might be discounted by the Southern bank of Kentucky. If it was so discounted, it partook, by the express words of the charter of that bank, of the nature of a mercantile instrument, and was placed, as to remedy, on the same footing of a foreign bill of exchange. As that bank was allowed to procure such instruments by discounting them, as has been already decided by this court, at the present term, in the case of Saunders and Hawkins v. the Bank of Kentucky, the assignment to the bank was prima facie evidence that it had been so discounted, and thereby raised to the grade of a mercantile instrument. If so, the practice with regard to bills of exchange ought to rule this question. It is well settled, that the holder of a bill of exchange may, at the trial, strike out subsequent endorsements, although they are written in full. His holding of the bill is evidence that he has taken it up; and, therefore, that he has, by the mere act of taking up the bill, an authority to strike out the subsequent endorsements, and treat them as nullities. Chitty on Bills, 188. We see no impropriety in applying this doctrine to notes standing on the same footing, and conceive the court below did right in permitting the plaintiff to strike out, and in disregarding the plea. *2 As to the amendment of the judgment, we think it wholly unnecessary to have done so. The plea of the defendant in form was a plea in abatement, but, in substance, a plea in bar, if a plea at all, and the court ought to have treated it as such; and judgment of respondeat ouster, on overruling it, was unnecessary. We also see no error in the court below in rejecting the plea of payment. Defendants ought to plead all their pleas at once. If they add, it ought to be by shewing cause, and an application to the sound discretion of the court. In this instance, no cause was shewn, and no affidavit presented, alleging that there was a real defense, or that the plea was true. When a judgment is rendered in the ordinary course of proceedings, it ought not to be disturbed afterwards by the same court, unless it is shewn that there is a defense, and that injustice will be done by it, and some reason alleged for not pleading in due time. Defendants should plead all their pleas at once, if they afterwards add to them, it should be done on cause shewn. The judgment is therefore affirmed with damages and costs. On rendering this opinion, Mr. Bibb presented the following petition for a rehearing: The counsel for Bell respectfully solicits a rehearing, and suggests-- 1st. That in order to make a promissory note a bill of exchange, it must have been actually discounted; and whilst it is admitted, that if the bank had sued and averred the discount of the bill, the possession and endorsement to the bank would have been prima facie evidence of actual discount; yet, without such averment the discount is not to be presumed, much less when the suit is not by the bank, but by another, and no such averment is made. 2d. In every declaration upon a bill, it is necessary to shew that it is such a mercantile instrument, to set forth a bill proper is sufficient without referring to the custom of merchants; but where a writing or note which, upon its face, is not a bill, is to be brought within the custom of merchants, there the facts which change its character and give it its higher and more dignified character, must be specially averred;--but here, neither in the petition nor in the plea, is any averment of actual discount at bank. 3d. Although the endorsement of a bill in blank may be stricken out at pleasure, before or at the trial, to make it correspond with the title, yet not so of an endorsement filled up, transferring the bill away from the plaintiff, as in the present case. See Chitty on Bills, 117, 118, 201. 4th. Now if the bill was discounted at bank and taken up by the plaintiff, he would have been bound to prove that fact upon a regular bill; and surely he would be bound to prove the same in this case: See Chitty on Bills, 203. Now if the plaintiff here had paid the bill as endorser the remedy by petition was not proper; he should have declared upon the actual discount; the payment thereof by himself, the plaintiff, and then he would have been bound to prove it. *3 5th. After profert of the note, and oyer and plea, the striking out of the endorsement did not affect the plea; that part of the plea which says, as per endorsement, is surplusage, the fact of assignment, and that the assignment was in full force at the commencement of the suit, and then is distinctly averred, and is sufficient, independent of the oyer given--the oyer was only evidence, and when the assignment was stricken out, it was yet competent for the defendant, Bell, to prove his plea true by parol, although the assignment had been erased before the trial came on--the demurrer admits the truth of the plea. All which is respectfully submitted. BIBB. The court took the case under advisement, and on the 14th December, 1820, Judge Mills delivered the following opinion: In the former opinion rendered in this cause, it was assumed, that the paper, on which the action is founded having been discounted at the bank at which it was negotiable, was thereby raised to the grade of mercantile paper, or, in other words, a foreign bill of exchange, and that the assignment to the bank, apparent on the note, was prima facie evidence that the bank had so discounted it. These positions are deemed sound by the court, and the reconsideration of the cause was not prompted by any doubt of their correctness. But a third position was assumed in the opinion, to-wit, that the bare holding or possession of this paper, by the plaintiff below, was prima facie evidence that he was entitled to it, by having taken it up from the hands of the bank, as an endorser, on its being dishonored by the failure of the defendant below, who was the maker. Doubting this position, a rehearing has been granted. The case is analogous to an intermediate endorser suing the acceptor or drawer of a bill; in which case, it is necessary for the holder to shew title in the bill, when it appears by endorsements that he himself had passed it to others. What kind of evidence shall be sufficient to prove this; whether it is incumbent on him to shew the bill re-endorsed to him, or a receipt endorsed, or other evidence that he has actually paid the amount and took up the bill, or whether his possession will be sufficient, till repelled by other evidence, the authorities are not agreed. The case of  Bradford v. Ross, 3 Bibb, 238 seems to adopt the first of these species of evidence. But it is worthy of remark, that although that decision is expressed in language indicating that the instrument, then decided upon, was subject to the lex mercatoria, yet it in fact was not. For notes made negotiable and negotiated at the office of the late Kentucky Insurance Company, never were raised to the grade of mercantile paper, and remained in the hands of the institution as ordinary bonds or notes in the hands of individual holders. Thus considering that paper, and the case as applied to it, the decision perfectly accords with the case of  Welch v. Linds, 7 Cranch, 159. As to the case of bills of exchange, however, some authorities are strong, that proof of actual payment is necessary to entitle the intermediate endorser to recover, while others admit the bare holding of the bill as good proof. The bare possession of the bill furnishes a violent presumption, that the person to whom it had been endorsed had not parted with it without payment; and we have no doubt that the doctrine which admits the possession of the bill as good evidence, will be of great convenience in the mercantile world, and that it will enable dealers in such paper to recover their demands frequently, without the necessity of proving that they have actually paid their endorsers, who may be distant and almost inaccessible. Being at liberty to choose therefore, among conflicting decisions, between proof of actual payment and possession, as prima facie evidence of that payment, we have again adopted the latter rule, as most convenient, and equally conducive to the ends of justice. We feel ourselves much strengthened in this, by the decision of the supreme court of the United States, in the case of Duncan and others v. the United States, 3 Wheat. 172. This may be considered as a case in point. There, after an examination of all the cases, this broad principle is maintained, "That if any person, who endorses a bill of exchange to another, whether for value, or for the purpose of collection, shall come to the possession thereof again, he shall be regarded, unless the contrary appears in evidence, as the bona fide holder and proprietor of such bill, and shall be entitled to recover, notwithstanding there may be on it one or more endorsements in full, subsequent to the one to him, without producing any receipt or endorsement back from either of such endorsers, whose names he may strike from the bill, or not, as he may think proper." The decisions of that court are entitled to great respect in mercantile transactions, as those which are more likely to produce uniformity on that subject, in the different states; and for this, as well as other reasons, to the principle here laid down, we readily subscribe. It follows, then, that the plaintiff below could not have been wrong in striking out the assignment and demurring to the defendant's plea; and that the court below could not have erred in allowing him to do so. *4 An assignor of a note, negotiated in bank acquiring the possession thereof, is prima facie the owner, and will be presumed to have taken it up after it had been dishonored. The former opinion of this court must stand unaltered and affirmed. Bibb for appellant, Crittenden for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Bell v. Morehead 3 A.K.Marsh. 158, 10 Ky. 158, 1820 WL 1180 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
