(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 195,  17 Ky. 195 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1528 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Blue v. Kibby. Dec. 15, 1824. *1 Evidence, Credibility, Instructions, New Trial, Exceptions. APPEAL FROM THE UNION CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Witnesses 410 k 338 410 Witnesses 410IV Credibility and Impeachment 410IV(B) Character and Conduct of Witness 410k338 k. Character and Reputation in General. Most Cited  Cases Evidence of general moral character should be admitted to impeach the testimony of a witness. Appeal and Error 30 k 706(5) 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(M) Questions Presented for Review 30k706 Grounds for Arrest of Judgment, New Trial, or  Rehearing 30k706(5) k. Necessity of Setting Forth All the Evidence.  Most Cited Cases In an exception to the opinion of the court below refusing a new trial moved for on affidavits on the ground of surprise of the adversary's evidence, the whole evidence ought, in general, to be stated. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. The appellee declared in trover against the appel??ants, in two counts, for the conversion of three stills and the necessary apparatus for distilling. On the trial of the issue of not guilty, the appellee ??ad introduced a witness who deposed in his favor, and ??o impeach him, the appellant introduced another wit??ess and asked him what was the general character of ??he appellee's witness. The court refused to permit ??he question to be answered, being of opinion that the ??nly proper question was, whether, from his knowledge of the general character of the witness, did he believe ??im entitled to credit when on oath. The jury found ??nd judgment was rendered for the appellee, and to re??erse it, this appeal is prosecuted. To discredit a witness, the party is not confined to the inquiry of the counter witnesses, whether, from their knowledge of the general character of the witness, they believe him entitled to credit on oath; it may be enquired, what is his general character? It is true, in the case of Mobley v. Hamit, 1 Marsh. 591, an opinion was intimated which would warrant ??he decision of the court below on impeaching the appellee's witness; but this court, on reconsidering that ??uestion in the case of Hume v. Scott, 3 Marsh. 260, has since come to a different conclusion; and upon a review?? of the latter case, we still approve it as tenable, and accordingly, the judgment of the court below canno?? stand. There were divers instructions moved for, and some given to the jury, and some refused, by the court below They involve questions which may again arise in another trial of this cause, yet we cannot notice them. Th?? counsel for the appellant must have supposed, that this court could notice the impropriety of instructions without seeing the evidence on which they were intende?? to bear, and accordingly, has not stated the evidence?? Whether the instructions were improperly given, w?? cannot decide, and are bound to presume that the cour?? below did right in every instance, under the state of ev??idence before it. *2 This court can not decide against instructions of the inferior court, without the evidence on which they were intended to bear, is stated; but will presume them correct. A new trial was moved for, relying on the ground?? that the verdict was contrary to the law and evidence, and also, on the ground of surprise, verified b??y the affidavit of the appellant, and also another indi??vidual. The surprise consists in a witness of the appellee de?? posing different from what the appellant knew to b?? true, and from the way in which he knew that the wit?? ness acquired a knowledge of the facts, and it was to?? late, after the trial had progressed thus far, to obtai?? witnesses to impeach this witness. In this exception?? likewise, the evidence is not detailed. In an exception to the opinion of the court below, refusing a new trial, moved for on affidavits, on the ground of surprise by the adversary's evidence, the whole evidence ought, in general, to be stated. It may well be doubted, whether, under any circum?? stances of this nature, this court ought to interpose an?? grant a new trial, which had been refused by the cou?? below, unless the whole history of the trial wa?? brought before this court, although the affidavits i?? support of the surprise, might appear on their face, fu??ly adequate to support the application. We are aware that such affidavits may be repelled b?? other evidence; and although they may in themselves?? seem to prove it, yet when applied to and compare?? with the evidence which had been given on the tria?? there would appear to be no surprise. For instanc?? this witness who had occasioned the supposed surpris?? might have been so flatly contradicted during the tria?? by other evidence, as to have destroyed his testimon??y or the facts might have been conclusively proved b?? other evidence, or his testimony might have been so i?? relevant, that impeaching of him could have made n?? difference, and, therefore, the court below, may very properly have disregarded the affidavits tending to prove surprise, and we ought to suppose that it did so, and ought not to overturn the verdict on this account, unless the whole circumstances were before us, in as complete a manner as could be exhibited on paper. The affidavits, in such case, may be repelled by other evidence, and in determining the motion, ought to be compared with the whole of the evidence given in on the trial. For these reasons we deem it improper to express any opinion on these last points; but for the first, the judgment must be reversed, the verdict be set aside with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Crittenden, for appellant; Bibb, for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Blue v. Kibby 1 T.B.Mon. 195, 17 Ky. 195, 1824 WL 1528 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 95 END OF DOCUMENT
