(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 153,  10 Ky. 153 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1179 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Jewitt and Th. D. Owings v. Thomas A. Marshall. Dec. 11, 1820. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BATH CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 253(1) 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(B) Opening or Vacating 161k253 Application and Proceedings Thereon 161k253(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases In motions to quash an execution and set aside the sale of lands had under it, the purchaser of the lands must be a party. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a motion made in the court below to quash an execution and return, for sundry legal exceptions thereto, and also to set aside a sale of land made by virtue thereof, on account of fraud and collusion between one of the plaintiffs in the execution and the purchaser, and also between the sheriff and purchaser. The court below being of opinion that the fraud and covin was proved sufficiently, sustained the motion, only so far as to annul the sale. To this decision an exception was taken, and an appeal prayed by the plaintiffs in the execution. Were we permitted, as the court below has done, to travel into the evidence and decide on the merits, we should have no great difficulty in concurring with that court in saying, that the impropriety used in selling the estate, was great enough to vitiate the sale. And we can not help regretting that we are arrested in the threshold from travelling into the case on its merits, by an assignment of error, questioning the notice, because the purchaser himself is not made a party to the notice, by either service or appearance. Was the case one which reached the execution only, and it had been quashed; or were the reasons urged against the sale such as to vitiate it, at common law, as was the case of  January against Bradford, 4 Bibb, 566, we should feel disposed, as in that case, to get over the exception. But when it is considered that the motion is made under an act of assembly, which will be found in  4 Litt. 277, and that the statute requires notice to all the parties concerned in interest, and that the main object of the motion is to strip the purchaser of the pretended title which he acquired, and that his interest cannot be affected, unless he is made a party, we must decide that the exception is fatal. True, it is proved that the purchaser was clerk of the court from which the execution issued, and in which the motion was made. And it also appears that he attested copies of the grounds of the motion and summons; yet as he might have done this by deputy, and not have been present; and if present, the plaintiff in the motion did not choose to recognize him as a party, and allow him to be heard, the objection to the proceedings is not thereby cured. In motions to quash an execution and set aside the sale of land had thereunder, the purchaser of the lands must be a party. The decision of the court below must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to that court to quash the notice with costs. Bibb for appellants, Hardin for appellee. *2 On the rendition of this opinion, the counsel for the appellee presented the following petition for a rehearing: The appellee respectfully applies to the court of appeals and petitions for a rehearing of the case, upon the following points, and for the reasons subjoined, viz: First. It appears from the reasoning of the court, that notice to Thomas Triplett, the purchaser of the land in question, either by the execution of process, or the appearance of the party, would have been conclusively inferred and the judgment affirmed: Or even if it were certain, that the grounds of the motion, and the process against the parties thereto, had, in fact, been subscribed by the clerk, Thomas Triplett, (who was the purchaser of the land) in proper person, leaving no room to infer that his name was set to those papers by his deputy, it would be sufficient evidence of notice, and equally authorized an affirmance of the judgment. These positions are deemed correct; and to say nothing of an actual personal appearance on the part of Thomas Triplett, and an active defense of the motion, as that does not appear in the record, although the real fact, yet it is respectfully conceived that enough is shewn to authorize the inference and conclusion that he had notice of the motion, and notice is all that the law, or the reasoning of the court requires. Now it does appear in the record, that Thomas Triplett, the purchaser of the land, was Thomas Triplett, the clerk of the court in which the motion was made, and whence the process issued--and to this process is subscribed the name of Thomas Triplett, the clerk of the court. The first, fair, and direct inference, therefore is, that the name of Thomas Triplett, to that process, was written by Thomas Triplett in person; as well, because identity of name implies identity of person; as because, had it been done by deputy, it should have so appeared, which it does not. The court have suggested, that the process might have issued in the absence of Thomas Triplett, the clerk, and been signed with his name by the deputy. The court will doubtless indulge the enquiry, how it came by the idea that Thomas Triplett, clerk of Bath circuit court, had a deputy? The law permits, but does not enjoin, the employment of a deputy. There is, then, no legal ground on which to predicate the fact, that Thomas Triplett had a deputy. He might not have business for one--he might not choose to incur the expense of keeping one. Had the law made it indispensable for each clerk, at all times, to keep a deputy, then it might have been inferred that the clerk of Bath had a deputy--but there is no such law, and no such legal inference exists. How, then, let it be asked, came this honorable court by the knowledge that Thomas Triplett had a deputy? The record, it is believed, does not furnish evidence of the fact. If so, it will be perceived that the court have looked out of the record for a fact of much importance in this case, or else made a gratuitous supposition, first, that Thomas Triplett had a deputy; and next, that the name of Thomas Triplett was underwritten to the process by deputy, when it does not so appear. This is much to be regretted, especially as the consequence is, a reversal of a judgment as righteous and as correct as ever was pronounced; and as vile a fraud as ever was practised, so far sanctioned, to the great injury of the party whose land was thereby sacrificed, to the value of $35,000, for less than $12--on an execution for less than $14. Yet nothing is intended to impugn the decision of this hon. court, as to the law of the case; but it is hoped that by thus reviewing the matter of notice to Thomas Triplett, it will be discerned by the court, that a much more circumscribed indulgence of implication will place the fact, of his having notice satisfactorily within the embrace of the court. As thus--Thomas Triplett was the clerk of the court, in which the motion to quash was made; his official signature is to the process--he therefore issued the process, and hence had notice of its contents. The process does not appear to have been issued by deputy--and therefore no inference can be indulged that it was issued by deputy. But it was issued in the name of Thomas Triplett:--therefore he issued it. These inferences place the fact of notice to Thomas Triplett clearly before the court, and enable them to lay hold on it. Now, notice to Triplett is all that was wanted to affirm the judgment:--For if he had notice, he defended, or not, at his own option. He did, in fact, defend. But this, it may be said, does not appear to the court. But the court have said--it does appear, he was the clerk of the court, and the purchaser. That he was the clerk of the court, authorizes the inference that he was present in court when the motion to quash was originally made--because his duty required him to be in court; and as a public officer, it is fair, and even necessary, to infer that he was doing his duty, until the contrary appear. Being in court, and attending to his duty, he could but have notice. And this might be the reason why he was not made a party to the process. For, as to him, it was useless--a notice was all the law required; and his attestation would evince that he had notice. On this point it is hoped the court will indulge one more argument, in corroboration of the implied notice, resulting from the record. It is this--the trial in open court presented Thomas Triplett, the clerk of the court, as the purchaser of the land in question; it is to be presumed he was not an indifferent spectator, is it not to be presumed that he appeared actually, in defense of his own personal conduct publicly arraigned? Is it not to be presumed, that the judge would not have rendered a judgment so materially affecting him without notice? The judge must be presumed to know the law, and what it required. The judgment is evidence that Triplett defended in open court. And this is the more certainly to be inferred, as no process had been formally executed, from which notice was to be inferred. His open appearance in court, or his attestation of process, or both, for both concurred, must have satisfied the judge. In fact, the whole error in this case consists in the omission to state, in the bill of exceptions, "that Triplett appeared to the motion," and actually opposed it. This was the fact. The court is therefore asked, under the circumstances of this case, so to modify their decision, that if the judge below will certify the appearance of Thomas Triplett to the motion, that the judgment do stand affirmed. This much has been said as to the fraud and covin. *3 Second. This court has suggested, that were the reasons urged against the sale such as would vitiate it at common law, the want of notice to Triplett might be dispensed with, &c. Now, it is respectfully conceived, that three points are clearly made in the case, of a nature purely legal, each of itself sufficient to set aside the proceedings on the execution, and affirm the judgment: 1st. That the whole right and interest of Thos. A. Marshall had been bona fide compromised and sold to the persons in possession, before the execution issued, or there was even a judgment for the costs. 2d. That the tract of land taken and sold by the execution, did not lie within the county of Bath, but the greater part lay in the county of Montgomery; and 3d. That Thos. A. Marshall, nor any person from whom he derived title, had ever made entry into, or been possessed of, the land, although the patent for it was more than 30 years old, and there had been an adverse possession for more than 20 years. And it is now prayed that these points may be reconsidered by this hon. court, and that they have their due effect upon the case. In the case of Bradford and January, referred to by the opinion of the court, it is in substance held, that if the sheriff sell that which is not liable to execution, the sale may be set aside without notice to the purchaser. Now, on the two last points made above, it is contended that the sheriff sold what he was not authorized by law to sell. HARDIN, for appellee. The court took the case under advisement, but at a subsequent day of the term overruled the petition. Ky.App. 1820. Jewitt v. Marshall 3 A.K.Marsh. 153, 10 Ky. 153, 1820 WL 1179 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
