(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 537,  22 Ky. 537 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1650 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Feemster v. Anderson. Jan. 7, 1828. *1 Statutes. Construction. Appeal Bonds. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 159(8) 231 Justices of the Peace 231V Review of Proceedings 231V(A) Appeal and Error 231k153 Requisites and Proceedings for Transfer of  Cause 231k159 Bonds or Other  Securities 231k159(8) k. Conditions of Bond or Undertaking.  Most Cited Cases The act regulating appeals from justices of the peace provides that persons praying an appeal shall, in the clerk's office of the circuit court to which the appeal is returnable, enter into a bond, etc., with condition to pay the same, "provided he gets cast."  Held, that a condition of a bond that, "if judgment be confirmed or the appeal dismissed, then," etc., is a substantial compliance with the statute. Appeal and Error 30 k 1232 30 Appeal and Error 30XVIII Liabilities on Bonds and Undertakings 30k1228 Accrual or Release of Liability by Breach or Fulfillment of Conditions 30k1232 k. Affirmance or Reversal of Judgment or Order. Most  Cited Cases Where a bond on appeal is conditioned in the event of the judgment "being confirmed, or said appeal be dismissed," and the appellant succeeds in reducing the judgment, no liability arises on the bond. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Feemster appealed to the circuit court from the judgment of a justice of the peace. The appeal bond taken by the clerk, read thus in its condition: "Now if the said Feemster and M. V. Harrison, or either of them, in the event of said judgment (of the justice of the peace), being confirmed or said appeal being dismissed by the court, shall satisfy and pay said judgment and costs, and all costs and damages that may be legally accrued and be awarded thereon, then the above obligation to be void, else to remain in full force and virtue in law." Condition of the appeal bond in question. The court below, on motion of the appellee, dismissed the appeal, because the bond was defective in the condition thereof, and to reverse this judgment, Feemster has prosecuted his writ of error. Judgment of the circuit court dismissing the appeal for supposed insufficiency of the bond. It seems clear that if the judgment of the circuit court, had been as large against Feemster as that given by the justice, so that the latter would, in substance, be confirmed, or the appeal have been dismissed, no doubt the bond would have been forfeited. The question then arises, is there any other mode by which the appeal could have been disposed of, and yet Feemster be bound, if his bond had been taken literally conformable to the act of Assembly? It is contended by the defendant in error, that there is still another mode by which Feemster's case could have been disposed of, and yet he ought to have been bound; as for instance, he might have lessened the judgment and got clear of the greater part thereof, and yet he and his surety be bound for the balance. If this position be correct, then the law is against him, but if not, then he ought to succeed in his writ of error. This question turns on the correct construction of the act of Assembly regulating this matter, which reads as follows: *2 Question stated. "The person praying an appeal, shall, in the clerk's office of the circuit court, to which the appeal is returnable, enter into bond and security, to be approved by said clerk, in a sum not less than double the original debt and costs, with condition to pay the same, provided he gets cast. And no appeal shall be dismissed, for any irregularity in the proceedings had before the magistrate; but the same shall be tried on its merits, as though no trial had been previously had thereon." Act allowing appeals to the circuit court, and prescribing the conditions of the bond. Another clause of the act gives the right of appeal to either party. It is not the practice under this act, to render judgment, in form reversing or affirming the judgment rendered by the justice; but it is evident every judgment must, in substance, be either an affirmance or reversal. If the foregoing provisions be taken according to their letter, they would seem to provide for but one kind of case, and that is the case of a plaintiff in the warrant obtaining judgment before the justice for his whole demand, and the defendant praying an appeal, and becoming convict in the circuit court, for the same amount. But apply these provisions to other cases, to which they must be applied, and take them literally, and they will produce absurdities which the legislature could not have intended. Let the plaintiff fail in obtaining judgment for his demand before the justice, and become the appellant, and if he fails in the circuit court, he is bound according to the letter of the act, as well as his security, to pay the amount of the debt for which he was sued, to the defendant, although he did not owe it when the controversy began. This could not have been the intention of the act, and we are bound to depart from the letter and pursue the intention, to effectuate the design of the law. Absurd effect of pursuing the letter of the statute. The remaining case, which we shall notice, is of the same character, and if the letter can be departed from, it will obviate the difficulty in the bond before us. Suppose the plaintiff obtains his judgment first for fifty dollars, thirty of which the defendant contends is unjust, and to get clear of it, he appeals, and succeeds in showing that the judgment of the justice was for too much literally he may be said to be "cast," as a judgment must still go against him in the circuit court for twenty dollars. But has he forfeited his bond, although he succeeded to the utmost of his contest? To answer this, we must depart from the letter of the act, for by the terms of the act, he is not bound to pay the twenty dollars and costs only, but the original debt, which was fifty dollars, although the judgment in the circuit court against him, was only twenty; for the act says that the bond shall be conditioned to pay the same, to-wit: the original debt and costs, so that after he has got clear of thirty dollars by the appeal, his adversary is entitled to recover fifty on the bond, the judgment of the circuit court notwithstanding, which is too absurd to be admitted. If then we must depart from the letter and fix on a less sum for his liability on his bond, it comports more with the legislative intention, to say that he has not forfeited his bond at all, as he succeeded in reducing the demand, and thus procured a virtual and substantial reversal of the judgment, and his adversary is defeated to some extent at least. We can not suppose it was the intention of the legislature to compel litigants to purchase justice at so dear a rate, as to compel them to give bond with surety, for all that remained, if a cent was left due, although they are driven into appeals to get clear of demands in part unjust. In short the legislature, in the section which we have just read, did not intend to give the form of the bond, and define all its requisites, but only to direct the substance thereof, and that substance must be so construed as to effectuate the intention of the legislature, as applied to the different class of cases. The right of appeal is given on the supposition that judgments may be given unjust, in whole or in part, and to correct that injustice whether partial or total was the design of the appeal, and if by the appeal the correction takes place, then the appellant is not cast in the sense intended. The word "cast" is equivocal and indefinite, and does not ex vi termini means if any judgment is rendered against the appellant, but if he fails to succeed in any part of the contest. If, therefore, the judgment is for as much or more than it was before the justice, then the judgment is substantially affirmed or confirmed, and the appellant is "cast," as the act supposes. If however, the appellee fails in obtaining a judgment, as large as he had done before the justice, then the appellant succeeds, and is not "cast," in the language of the act, nor does any liability accrue on the appeal bond. *3 Another case of the absurd consequences of the literal purport of the act. If the appellant succeeds in the circuit court, in reducing the judgment rendered against him by the justice, he is not cast, nor is the judgment affirmed, in the meaning of the statute, and so the condition of the appeal bond prescribed by the statute is not broken. This construction of the act will give to appeal bonds of this nature the same effect, as is given to appeal bonds taken in cases brought to this court, from inferior tribunals, in which, if the appellant succeeds in lessening the demand, and in but a partial reversal, he saves his bond and the condition is not broken. Testing this bond by this construction of the act, it is valid, as it embraces in its condition every event on which the bond, if taken in the general terms of the act, could have been forfeited; that is the confirmation of the judgment, or the dismissing of the appeal. The court consequently erred in dismissing the appeal and refusing to try it. Condition of the appeal bond, that in case of the judgment of the justices being confirmed, or the appeal being dismissed, then, &c., is substantially conformable to the statute. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Hanson and Feemster, for plaintiff; James Trimble, for defendant. Ky.App. 1828. Feemster v. Anderson 6 T.B.Mon. 537, 22 Ky. 537, 1828 WL 1650 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
