(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 472,  10 Ky. 472 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1136 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Deatly's Heirs v. Z. Murphy et al. Jun. 5, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE NICHOLAS CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Lis Pendens 242 k 24(3) 242 Lis Pendens 242k23 Purchasers Pending Suit 242k24 In General 242k24(3) k. Actions to Set Aside Conveyances, and  Creditors' Suits. Most Cited Cases A purchaser of land, pending a suit against his grantor to set aside the deed to him as fraudulent against creditors, takes title subject to the decree in that suit. Sales 343 k 52(2.1) 343 Sales 343I Requisites and Validity of Contract 343k52 Evidence 343k52(2) Admissibility 343k52(2.1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 343k52(2)) The consideration expressed in a bill of sale may be inquired into and impeached by parol evidence, where the bill is executed by one who is weak-minded to one who has gained an influence over him. Sales 343 k 235(1) 343 Sales 343V Operation and Effect 343V(D) Bona Fide Purchasers 343k235 Notice 343k235(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases An innocent purchaser of personal property, after suit brought to rescind the sale to his vendor, will not be protected. Trusts 390 k 72 390 Trusts 390I Creation, Existence, and Validity 390I(B) Resulting Trusts 390k71 Payment of Consideration for Conveyance to  Another 390k72 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where land is bought by one man with the money of another, an implied or resulting trust arises. Cancellation of Instruments 69 k 28 69 Cancellation of Instruments 69I Right of Action and Defenses 69k26 Persons Entitled to Cancellation 69k28 k. Parties in Pari Delicto. Most Cited  Cases Where a vendee availed himself of his influence over a weak-minded man to procure a sale for the purpose of defrauding creditors, it was held to be no equality of guilt, and that such sale should be vacated. Descent and Distribution 124 k 76 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(A) Nature and Establishment of Rights in General 124k73 Title of Heirs or Distributees 124k76 k. Personal Property. Most Cited  Cases The right of distributees to slaves becomes a perfect title on the assent of the administrator. Equity 150 k 329 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(I) Defects and Objections, and Waiver Thereof 150k329 k. Cure by Subsequent Pleading. Most Cited  Cases If an answer aids the defective statements of a bill of complainant who is ignorant of his rights, relief will be granted. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 The heirs of John Deatly filed their bill in chancery against Zephaniah Murphy and Richard Stites and others, representing that their ancestor was possessed of a considerable personal estate, sundry slaves, and a tract of land; and was, in the year 1812, accused of felony and imprisoned in the jail of Fayette county. That when under confinement his estate was pressed with sundry small executions, and to discharge them, he executed a letter of attorney to said Murphy, authorizing him to sell a negro slave, named Austin, to discharge the debts, and other property if Austin was not sufficient. That pursuant to the power Murphy sold the slave for about 255 dollars, and paid 200 thereof to the wife of Deatly, who again, on the request of Murphy, restored it to him, and he did not discharge the debts, but represented that he would let the estate, executed, be sold, and he would become the purchaser with the same money, of Deatly, gotten for the negro sold, and thereby secure it to the family of Deatly. That accordingly all the personal estate was sold, by a sheriff and a constable holding a few small executions, amounting, in the whole, to an inconsiderable sum, and Murphy became the purchaser, and, among the rest, of a negro girl named Eliza. That Deatly was a man of weak mind and easily imposed upon, and that Murphy possessed his entire confidence, and professed friendship towards him and exercised a strong influence over him. That Murphy, together with a certain John Roberts, then bailed Deatly out of jail, and after his return home to Nicholas county, he, Deatly, placed in the possession of Murphy, three negro slaves of great value, named Aggy, Nance and Mima--and that at the time Murphy got possession of these slaves, he paid Deatly one-half dollar, which Deatly acknowledged to be the last payment for them; but engaged at the time, to restore them, and if he sold them he was to procure other negroes, and convey them over to Deatly's family, to wit, to his wife any children, separate from the control of Deatly. That Murphy having thus got all the personal estate and slaves, under the specious pretext of securing them for the family, Deatly still retained his land to the quantity of 137 acres, for which he held a bond on John Fowler, executed by Col. Fletcher, his agent, stipulating a conveyance. That Murphy then came to the house of Deatly and represented to him that a certain Thomas J. Glass held an execution against Deatly for about nine dollars, and that he ((Glass) was about to send the officer to execute and sell the land. That on Deatly's being alarmed at this intelligence, Murphy informed him how he could avert the evil, by assigning the title bond on Fowler to some confidential friend--and that Deatly accordingly took nine dollars of his own money and furnished it to Murphy, privately, and then before witnesses assigned the title bonds of Fowler to Murphy, who paid him therefor the same nine dollars, acknowledging that to be the last payment for the land. The bill then proceeds to state that Murphy had sold the personal estate, and all the slaves except the girl Eliza, and had assigned the title bond to the defendant Stites, and procured the agent of Fowler, as stated in an amended bill, to make the conveyance to Stites, who had brought an ejectment for the land, all which acts of Murphy, happened after Deatly's death, as to the sale of the property. The bill then makes Murphy. Stites, and Fletcher, defendants, and prays relief against all these transactions. *3 Murphy, in his answer, admits the sale of the negro Austin, but alleges that he paid the two hundred dollars to Mrs. Deatly and never received it back, and appropriated part of the fifty-five dollars to the discharge of Deatly's debts, and kept the residue in part pay for his trouble and alleges that he bought the personal estate and the slave Eliza with his own money--admits he bailed Deatly, and alleges that he bought the three slaves, Aggy, Nance and Mima, of Deatly, for $500 paid down, and that the title of the negroes was in dispute, and hence they sold to cheap, as he took them entirely at his own risque, and he exhibits a bill of sale for the three, expressing the consideration of $500. He denies an agreement to hold the three slaves last named in trust for Deatly's children, or any promise to restore them or furnish others in their room. He denies that he represented that Glass had an execution of nine dollars, about to take the land, and declares he had, himself, paid off Glass's execution long before the assignment of the bond for the land. Contrary to all this he declares that he purchased the land at the price of five hunddred dollars, three hundred and twenty of which he paid down to Deatly, and the residue he agreed to pay, and did actually pay to Fowler, being the balance due of the original price, and for this consideration Deatly, assigned to him Fowler's obligation, and admits the sale to Stites and conveyance by Fowler. Stites professes ignorance of the charges in the bill, admits the purchase and part of the payment, and reception of a conveyance, and declares himself an innocent purchaser without notice, although his conveyance was made, pending the original bill. Fletcher complains of being made a defendant, and being called upon for a disclosure of the title bond or bonds of Fowler and Deatly which he had taken in, when he made the conveyance to Stites, as the agent of Fowler, declares he has lost or mislaid them, and can not produce them. The circuit court decided against the claim for the personal estate, on the ground that the personal representative had not sued, and against the claim for the slaves on the ground that the remedy of the complainants below was complete at law to recover them or their value. And also against the claim for the land, on the ground that the transfer of the bonds was made to screen the land from Glass's execution, and of course no relief could be had against such a contract. The bill was accordingly dismissed without prejudice to any suit at law brought for the same cause of complaint, from which decree the heirs of Deatly appealed. Among the numerous registers of guilt, which courts of justice are frequently compelled to make but few can be found of a color more dark,--a conduct more unfeeling and vile, than that which the proof in this cause discloses against the defendant Murphy. In such circumstances we must inquire whether there are any legal bars in the road of recovery, and whether Deatly's conduct was so equally base as that of Murphy, as to prevent his representatives from recovering in this suit. *4 Though a bill should be so certainly drawn as to enable a chancellor to decree with precision, yet such certainty may be dispensed with, where the party was ignorant of his rights, and the complainant may avail himself of any proofs or the admission of the answer. It is noticed by the court below, with much justice, that the bill is defective. It is so imperfectly and inartificially drawn, that it does not, nearly, embrace the case as made out by the answer of Murphy, taken in connection with the proof. It is a sound rule that a bill ought to contain such charges and allegations as will support the jurisdiction of a court of equity, and warrant the decree of the chancellor upon its allegations. But it is a sound exception to this rule that many of such charges and allegations may be dispensed with where the complainant is ignorant of his rights, and if the answer or proof aids such a case, relief may be granted without regard to the defective, and sometimes incorrect statements of the bill. Some of the heirs of Deatly, and those who have most vigorously prosecuted the suit are infants, who have sued by their next friend; all the rest except one are femes covert, and are not conversant with the transactions. Under such circumstances we would reluctantly dismiss a bill for its defects, and we conceive that the present bill, coupled with the proofs, may warrant a decree, if in other respects the complainants shall be found entitled. As to the land which is one of the principal objects of this suit, we will first respond. It is shown that Deatly was in fact a weak minded man. That whilst he was enduring the horrors of his prison he was under such alarm that he offered his whole estate to procure bail--that Murphy and Roberts bailed him, after Murphy had been transacting his business and paying his debts, and that besides the obligations under which Murphy had laid him by becoming his bail, he possessed an unbounded influence over him, which he did not fail to urge by representations to the wife of Deatly, that he, Deatly, was incompetent to manage his own business, and the family must come to want, if some trusty person, as agent, did not undertake Deatly's business. Deatly, after his liberation from confinement, seemed to labor under a confusion of intellect, and some witnesses state that they conceived him measurably deranged. Under these circumstances he must be not sufficiently independent of Murphy to exercise the weak understanding he possessed. In this situation Murphy procured the assignment of the bond of Fowler--and altho' he denies representing that an execution in favor of Glass, for the small pittance of nine dollars, would take the land, yet it is incontrovertibly proved that he did so alarm Deatly into a belief that the execution would take and sell that which was not the subject of the execution. He further denies that he paid nine dollars of Deatly's own money for the land, yet he did certainly do so, and not one cent more did he ever pay, altho' he alleges in his answer that he paid down the sum of three hundred and twenty dollars. Add to all this that the execution of Glass on which he rested to alarm Deatly, was before that time, discharged by himself as he declares in his answer. Thus he made use of an execution which did not exist and which he had the means of knowing was satisfied out of the money paid as the price of the negro Austin, and of this payment, Deatly from his confinement, must be presumed to be wholly ignorant. Can any relief be granted against the contract under these circumstances? We recognize the rule recognized by the court below, that equity will not relieve against or enforce a contract made to defraud creditors or third persons; not because the defendant has merit in his claim, but merely because he has the attitude of a defendant. In such case the maxim is in patri delicto melior est conditio defendentis. But this is a case where the party against whom relief is sought, has fraudulently induced the party craving relief to attempt a fraud, by using his influence--exercising his vast ascendency, arising both from confidence and dependence--making use of dangers not existing, to induce Deatly to dispose of his property, when it was not subject to the execution at all, even if it was not then discharged. In such a case Deatly never could be in pari delicto. Murphy was the origin and instigator of the crime. Deatly could not be a free agent in doing such a useless act, and so far as he consented, it was under a relief of a falsehood induced by Murphy. We are unwilling to extend the rule so far as to cover such a fraud, devised and completed by the defendant. It is enough to afford such defendants the protection of the rule, when they are not more guilty than the complainant. The court of appeals in Virginia in the case of Winston's adm'x. against Austin's ex'x. enforced a contract made between a debtor and his creditors to defraud other cred itors. 1 Henn. and Mum. 33. Altho' we might hesitate to go as far as that case has gone in decreeing the benefit of a contract, yet we cannot in this case, which is much stronger,, refuse to set the contract aside. *5 A chancellor will not set aside a contract of sale made to defeat creditors where there is an equality of guilt between vendor and vendee, but if the vendor avails himself of his influence over the mind of a weak, confiding man, to induce him to sell with such a view, there is no equality of guilt, & such contract will be vacated. As to the defendant Stites, altho' he claims to be an innocent purchaser, yet his conveyance was taken pendente lite, and it does not appear that he had yet paid the whole consideration. The contract, therefore, between Deatly and Murphy, as to the land, must be set aside, and Stites be decreed to convey the title to the heirs of Deatly. An account must also be taken of the rents, profits and waste, since the death of Deatly, received or committed by Murphy until Stites took the possession, and then againstStites during the time he has held the farm, and also of the money paid or secured by Murphy to Fowler, as the balance of the original price, and the balance be decreed against whomsoever it is found, and the possession of the land must be restored to Deatly's heirs. A purchaser of property, thus acquired, though innocent himself, yet if he receives the title after suit brought to correct the fraud, will not be protected. The complaint with regard to the negro slave Eliza, and the personal property purchased at the sales of the sheriff and constable, stands on an entirely different footing.--Here no invention to deprive creditors of their rights is pretended by either side or shown in proof. Deatly, at the time, was in confinement and appears not to have been privy to it; tho' after his liberation, placing confidence in Murphy, he approved of the arrangement. In this the answer of Murphy is also completely overturned. It is shown by express proof strongly corroborated that he received back the two hundred dollars from Mrs. Deatly and stood by at the sales and became the purchaser with Deatly's money. It seems to have been an arrangement entirely designed to place the title of the property in Murphy, as the agent and trustee for the use and benefit of the appellants, Washington & Porter Deatly. It was then nothing more than placing the property in his hands and the purchase with Deatly's own money could not add to it greater validity. In other words it was a gift for the benefit of these appellants. As to the negro girl Eliza it is in proof that Murphy never took her into possession for the benefit of Washington and Porter Deatly, but left her in the possession of Deatly, where she remained till his death, and she has ever since remained with his family. Putting the pretended sale out of the question, it is evident that such gift of a slave, under the 41 sec. of the act, entitled "an act to reduce into one the several acts respecting slaves, free negroes, mulattoes and Indians." 2 Litt. 113, could pass no title to the appellants. W. & P. Deatly, or yet in the trustee for them, and she remained still the property of Deatly till his death. *6 A person purchasing property at a sale with the funds of the debtor, is a trustee. But as to the personal estate it was competent for Deatly to make a gift of it by parol only, and to place it in the hands of Murphy as the trustee for his two children last named. Assuming this to be the fact it was not necessary, as the circuit court supposed, for the personal representative to be a party to recover it. The cestui que use is entitled to the remedy. And altho' a court of chancery will but seldom sustain a bill for the specific execution of a contract respecting a chattel, yet where a trust is concerned, which is a subject peculiar to such court, it will interfere and relieve when the trust is ended, or likely to be abused. In this case the appellee, Murphy, has denied the trust and insists on his right to the estate. Most of these chattels remain in possession of the family; but some of them do not. Murphy must be decreed to release his claim thereto to Wash. and Por. Deatly, and decreed to account them for such articles as he has disposed of and they have not the possession of. Though chancery will seldom enforce a contract for personal property, she will do so where a trust is created and the executor of a deceased donor need not be a party. The case of three negroes, Aggy, Nance and Mima presents more difficulty. With regard to them neither the allegations of the bill, or the answer of Murphy or the proof of the cause, sheds so clear a light, as on other matters in contest. Certain it is, there is some mystery in the transaction. Murphy after his having bailed Deatly, returns home to Nicholas county, and then prepares Mrs. Deatly for a separation from these slaves by telling her that they were to be placed in his hands as indemnity, if Deatly should not stand his trial. Shortly after the arrival of Deatly, he comes to his house and gets these slaves, having previously gotten a bill of sale for them. He declares that he purchased them for the sum of five hundred dollars paid down, and his bill of sale, expresses that consideration, when, if the parol evidence is admissible, he then paid but one half dollar, and even his own son introduced by him to prove the payment, states that he saw money paid, but will not say how much, and concurs with the rest of the witnesses in swearing that Deatly declared it was the last payment for the negroes. The difficulty arising in this part of the case is caused by the bill of sale produced by Murphy, the terms and consideration of which, as it is written, furnish evidence of a higher nature than verbal proof. But such a consideration expressed in writing, may be shown to be composed of other things besides money, the price of value of which things might have been agreed by the parties to stand as so much money, as was decided by this court in the case of Carneal's heirs vs. May, &c, Fall term, 1820. The acknowledgement of payment, made in such an instrument, may be shown to mean the securing of it, by the vendee, by stipulations on his part. *7 The acknowledgment of the consideration on a bill of sale, may be made in consequence of stipulations entered into by the vendee, and does not per se?? prove the payment of the price. We cannot doubt in this case that the real consideration intended by Deatly, was the obligations of Murphy, undertaken to the commonwealth as bail for Deatly, which obligations he might have been compelled to fulfill, on the contingency of Deatly's avoiding his trial. This contingency never did happen, and by the death of Deatly or from some other cause, Murphy appears in no danger of suffering. Giving then this transaction the most favorble construction, Murphy ought to be compelled to restore the slaves to Deatly's estate. But another answer may be given to this bill of sale, more strong and availing against Murphy. The situation of the parties, as before observed, in a contest in chancery--the cunning and shrewdness of one, and imbecility and incapacity, as well as inexperience of the other--the illimitable ascendency and influence of the vendee over the vendor--coupled with the unbounded confidence of the latter in the former, and also with great inadequacy of price, are facts and circumstances which authorize the presumptions of fraud in many cases so strongly that no contract can stand. In this class the cases of embarrassment of the vendor, taken advantage of by the vendee--catching bargains, where a guardian or even an insidious individual ensnares a ward or an heir into a ruinous contract, are placed. Newland on Con. 362 to 368 and cases there cited. In no case could the condition and circumstances of the different parties to a contract, contrasted with each other, have a stronger bearing than in the present controversy. The free agency of Deatly was destroyed, and the door was fully opened to the dark and nefarious designs of Murphy. Under such circumstances the contract ought not to be allowed to stand; nor ought the expression of a consideration to estop the heirs of Deatly from enquiring into and impeaching it. If it is to be impeached, no doubt can remain that one half dollar was all that was paid for these three slaves, and that accompanied with the declaration that it was the last payment, was intended to cover up the base designs of the vendee, and to place the property in his hands for his own benefit. A bill of sale given as a counter security, should be cancelled and the property restored on the ceasing of the liability. A pretended purchaser holding influence over the mind of a weak and credulous man, will not be permitted to enjoy a contract gained at an inadequate price. Nor do we conceive that the personal representative not being a party furnishes a bar to the relief sought. The widow of Deatly, who administered on his estate, considered the settlement of these slaves in the hands of Murphy to be obligatory upon her, and to it she readily assented, until Murphy began to show intentions of abusing the supposed trust. She never claimed the slaves as part of the estate, on which she sought to administer, and after the controversy arose she relinquished her right to the estate to appear as a witness. From these circumstances and also from others which need not be detailed, her assent to the taking of the heirs and to their right to sue may bepresumed. No doubt is entertained that with such assent the heirs may sue, and their suit in this instance was rightfully brought. Some doubts were at first entertained whether these three slaves ought to be decreed to Washington & Porter Deatly alone or to the heirs general. But the parol declarations of Murphy, we conceive too weak in this instance to cause the slaves to pass to the two heirs only.--Besides, we have no doubt that these declarations were made to cover the fraud, and as the contract is to be entirely vacated and not specifically enforced, we conceive that the slaves ought to be decreed to all the heirs hereafter to abide the laws of the land in any question of division between themselves. The defendant, Murphy, ought to be decreed to restore these slaves, if to be had, if not, their present value in damages and to be compelled by proper assessment made by a jury or commissioners, to account for them and their reasonable hire from the time he got them until the date of the decree. And after Murphy shall render an account of the price of Austin and the forty dollars collected by him in discharging Deatly's debts or otherwise, he is to be allowed a reasonable compensation for his valuable services rendered to Deatly and his family, and to be allowed him as credits in the amount to be taken. *8 An executor may assent to heirs bringing suit for slaves in their own name, alone. The decree must be reversed with costs and the cause remanded for new proceedings accordant to this opinion, as to the defendants Murphy and Stites. But as to Fletcher, the decree is affirmed without costs in his favor as in this court he made default. Ky.App. 1821. Deatly's Heirs v. Murphy 3 A.K.Marsh. 472, 10 Ky. 472, 1821 WL 1136 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
