(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 526,  21 Ky. 526 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1602 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Tibb's Heirs v. Clark, &c. Oct. 10, 1827. *1 Specific Performance. Payment. Lapse of Time. Pleading. APPEAL FROM THE MASON CIRCUIT; WILLIAM P. ROPER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Payment 294 k 59 294 Payment 294IV Proceedings to Establish Payment 294k59 k. Necessity of Plea of Payment. Most Cited Cases Where lapse of time is relied on as evidence of payment, the payment must be averred as in other cases. Equity 150 k 326 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(H) Issues, Proof, and Variance 150k326 k. Evidence Admissible Under Pleadings. Most Cited  Cases Where lapse of time is relied on as evidence of a payment pleaded in a suit in equity, such payment must be averred as in other cases. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Septemus Clark and James Shackleford purchased of Nathaniel Massie five hundred acres of land, lying in the county of Mason, and received from Massie a bond, bearing date the 27th of September, 1810, for a title. The title not being made, Clark and Shackleford exhibited their bill in equity in the Mason circuit court. Bill by Clark and Shackleford. In their bill they allege that the land was purchased by Massie of Willoughly Tibbs, and they profess not to know whether a conveyance was ever made to Massie, or whether the title still resides in the heirs of Tibbs, he having departed this life. Massie has also died, and his heirs, together with the heirs of Tibbs, are made defendants. By an amendment to the bill, it appears that Tibbs never conveyed the title to Massie, and the bond which was given by Tibbs to Massie for a title, as well as that which was given by Massie to Clark and Shackleford, are referred to as exhibits. Allegations of the bill. The original bill prays for a decree against whomsoever the title may be found to be in, and that a conveyance thereof be made to them, &c. Prayer for relief. The heirs of Tibbs are non-residents, and the cause came on for hearing, as to them, upon publication. The heirs of Massie are infants, and they answered by a guardian appointed ad litem. That answer is in the usual form, and puts the complainants upon the proof of every allegation in their bill. Publication against Tibbs' heirs and answer by Massie's. The court decreed Clark and Shackleford to pay the residue of the purchase money due under their contract with Massie, and appointed a commissioner whose duty was directed to be to convey the title and interest of the heirs of Tibbs as well as that of the heirs of Massie, whenever the amount decreed should be paid by Clark and Shackleford. Decree of the circuit court. There is, we think, a radical defect in the bill, as respects the claim for relief against the heirs of Tibbs. By the bond which was given by Tibbs to Massie, it appears that the consideration which was agreed to be paid by Massie for the land, was not, at the date of the bond, in fact paid, and that the title was not to be conveyed by Tibbs until payment thereof was made. It is obvious, therefore, that neither Massie nor Clark and Shackleford, who claim by purchase from him, can be entitled to a decree against the heirs of Tibbs, unless the price contracted to be paid by Massie, has been paid to Tibbs or his representatives; and that in a bill seeking the specific execution of Tibb's contract with Massie, it is indispensable to allege payment of the price agreed to be paid by Massie, or something equivalent to payment. The bill of Clark and Shackleford is, however, totally destitute of any such allegation. The bond which contains the contract between Tibbs and Massie is exhibited, but there is no suggestion in the bill conducing to shew payment of the price, or a readiness to pay by Massie or those claiming under him. *2 Vendor of land can not be compelled to convey, where it does not appear he has been paid the consideration money. In argument this objection to the bill was attempted to be obviated by the lapse of time since the contract between Tibbs and Massie. That contract is dated in 1795, and it was contended that from the time since elapsed, payment should be presumed, and hence it was insisted that without an allegation of payment having been made by Massie, the bill contains a sufficiency to authorize a decree against the heirs of Tibbs. It should, however, be recollected that although payment may, from length of time, be presumed, such a presumption is not to be indulged without allegation to which the presumption may apply. Where the lapse of time is relied on as evidence of payment, the payment must be averred as in other cases. Though after the lapse of twenty years a bond will be presumed to be paid, if when put in suit payment be pleaded, yet if payment be not pleaded, the court will not be at liberty to indulge the presumption and render judgment against the plaintiff. So, in equity the same presumption will be indulged when by the pleadings the fact is alleged to be so; but neither at law or in equity is the court at liberty to indulge such a presumption without the appropriate allegation in the pleadings. Same rule at law as in equity. The bill is, therefore, too defective to authorize a decree for the title. The decree must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below, and the bill dismissed without prejudice to the right of the complainants to prosecute any other suit. The complainants must also pay the cost in that court. Crittenden, for plaintiffs; Brown and Reid, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Tibbs' Heirs v. Clark 5 T.B.Mon. 526, 21 Ky. 526, 1827 WL 1602 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
