(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 348,  19 Ky. 348 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1312 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Millan &c. v. Ritchie. Oct. 20, 1826. *1 Damages. Interest. Covenant. Warranty. ERROR TO THE HARRISON CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Covenants 108 k 130(4) 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k123 Damages 108k130 Covenant of Warranty 108k130(4) k. Purchase Money and Interest, and Expenses.  Most Cited Cases The damages in an action for breach of warranty of land, where the amount of the consideration is expressed in the deed, is that sum, with interest from the date of the deed, not from the day of the payment of it, whether before or afterwards. Covenants 108 k 131 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k123 Damages 108k131 k. Interest. Most Cited Cases The interest on the consideration is recoverable from the date of the deed, and not from the date of payment of the consideration. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The defendant in error brought this action of covenant in the court below, on the warranty of the testator of the defendants, setting out the deed of said testator in usual form, and alleging that, for the "consideration of fifty pounds, to him in hand paid," the testator conveyed one hundred acres of land, with a general warranty annexed. Breach was assigned, that the defendants in error had been evicted of part by title paramount, in a due course of law. Declaration on a breach of the covenant of warranty. On the trial, the defendant offered evidence to show, that the consideration money was paid several years before the date of the deed declared on. This evidence was objected to, but admitted; and after it was heard, the jury at the instance of the counsel for the defendant error, was instructed-- Evidence objected to. That if the jury believed, from the evidence, that the consideration was paid some years before the date of the deed, the defendant in error was entitled to the interest on said payments, from the time they were made till the date of the deed, as well as afterwards. Instruction as to the measure of recovery. To this instruction an exception was taken, and it is now relied on as sufficient to reverse the judgment. Exception. The general rule is well settled, that the value of the land at the date of the warranty, and not at any other date, is the proper criterion of damages, and to ascertain this value, the price stipulated between the parties is the best evidence. To this general rule, like all others, there may be exceptions; but this case presents no circumstances which can make it an exception. Indeed, the instruction given, admits that as the criterion but adds to it a quantity of interest, before the date of the deed, as a matter of law which the jury were bound to find. It is true, that the interest on the value, after the date of the warranty, is annexed as a legal criterion by numerous cases, but this arises from the construction of the covenant itself, which is defined to be a stipulation to return the value, with interest from its date. If the covenant includes no more and no less, it is hard to perceive the principle which can alter and enlarge that criterion by proving matter dehors the deed. If this be correct, two deeds, of precisely the same expressions, may each have a different criterion of damages; and because the consideration was paid long before its date, and in the other case, long afterwards, which is a phenomenon in the construction of covenants containing precisely the same expressions. We therefore, conceive, that the court below erred in its instruction given to the jury, and for this cause, the judgment must be reversed, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. *2 The damages in the action for breach of the covenant of warranty of land, where the amount of the consideration is expressed in the deed, is that sum with interest from the date of the deed, not from the day of the payment of it, whether before or afterwards. Crittenden, for plaintiffs; Mayes, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. McMillan v. Ritchie 3 T.B.Mon. 348, 19 Ky. 348, 1826 WL 1312 (Ky.), 16 Am.Dec. 107 END OF DOCUMENT
