(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 216,  19 Ky. 216 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1274 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gillon, &c. v. Wilson. May 25, 1826. *1 Pleading. Evidence. Abetting. Principal and Accessary. Instructions. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Assault and Battery 37 k 18 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(A) Acts Constituting Assault or Battery and Liability Therefor 37k18 k. Persons Liable. Most Cited Cases Where persons fail, when it is in their power, to prevent a merciless battery upon a feeble old man, other slight circumstances may convict them all as principals in the trespass, though they did prevent his being murdered. Assault and Battery 37 k 24(3) 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(B) Actions 37k24 Pleading 37k24(3) k. Issues, Proof, and Variance. Most Cited  Cases Plaintiff cannot give evidence of a greater number of assaults than are laid in his declaration. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of trespass, assault and battery, and was tried on the general issue. Trial on the general issue. The proof was, that the plaintiff below was travelling the road in a wagon, with no other person in company, except the driver of the team; that the defendants, being four or five in number, came up, and one got into the wagon and beat the plaintiff severely, and then the party rode on, and after a while again stopped, till the wagon came up, and again beat the plaintiff, and again separated from the wagon, and after a while returned again, and so on, until the plaintiff was beaten four times most unmercifully. Evidence. As the plaintiff was progressing in proof till two of those beatings were proved, and was commencing the proof of the third, the counsel for defendants objected to introducing proof of the third and fourth batteries, because there were only two counts in the declaration, and therefore, only two distinct assaults and batteries could be proved. Defendant's objection to evidence___ Overruled. The court overruled the objection. The proof being closed, the counsel for defendants moved the court to instruct the jury, as there were only two counts in the declaration, the jury ought to give damages for only two assaults and batteries. Instructions moved by defendant, and overruled. The court overruled this application also. And a verdict and judgment being rendered against the defendants, they have brought the case to this court. Verdict and judgment. That the design of a count in a declaration, is to apprise a defendant of the extent and number of the complaint against him; and that the plaintiff ought not to prove or recover for a greater number, or more extensive charges than he has made, are propositions too well understood to need proof. Plaintiff can not prove a greater number of assaults and batteries than are laid in his declaration. *2 It is equally clear, that every assault and battery committed after another, and after the parties have been separated, constitutes a distinct and independent cause of action. Nor does the law very accurately measure the time, or the distance of separation. If there be a complete separation, and a return to the combat, a new action may be sustained. It was, therefore, erroneous to permit the plaintiff below to recover for more of the batteries than he claimed. Every assault and battery committed after another, and the parties have been separated, is a distinct cause of action--without regard to the time or distance of the separation, so it be complete and a return to the combat. One other question was made, and may again occur on a future trial of the cause, and ought therefore to be noticed. But one of the party of defendants gave the actual beating, and it was insisted that there ought to be no recovery against the others. The court instructed the jury, that if the others did not strike the plaintiff, or offer to do so, or counsel, advise, aid or assist the one actually engaged, to do it, the law was for defendants; but did not instruct the jury to find for them, and this is assigned for error. Instructions touching the abettors. There are divers circumstances in proof, which ought to have induced the court below to refuse a positive instruction for these defendants, and which shew that the instruction given was more favorable to them than they could have expected. Where persons in company with the assailants fail when in their power, to prevent a merciless battery on a feeble man, tho' they do prevent his being murdered, the omission to interfere, with other slight circumstances, may convict them all as principals in the trespass. It is hard to reconcile their failure to interfere and prevent such a merciless battery, committed on an aged and drunken man, with their innocence, and from this circumstance it might be inferred, that they looked on it with pleasure, if they did not approve and encourage it. They, or some of them, did once interfere; but it seems it was for the purpose of preventing murder alone, and to permit the actual combatant go all the lengths he could, short of murder. They still attended upon, and acted in such concert with, the person engaged on each occasion, and presented such appearance of force, as was sufficient to deter and prevent the interference of the wagoner, who was disposed to rescue the sufferer. Add to this that the pretended provocation of the beating was, that the plaintiff had accused the actual combatant with improperly taking or stealing his turkeys, and the others, or some of them, would sometimes cry, during some of the engagements, "pay him well for his turkeys." Such circumstances, if believed by the jury, were sufficient to make them all principals, and responsible for the consequences, especially as they were so completely able, under the circumstances of the case, to prevent all mischief, and preserve the peace inviolate. There is then, on this point, no error in the judgment. *3 But on the first ground considered, the judgment must be reversed, with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiff; Daniel for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Gillon v. Wilson 3 T.B.Mon. 216, 19 Ky. 216, 1826 WL 1274 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
