(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 79,  22 Ky. 79 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1636 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Fanning v. Pritchett & Case. Oct. 23, 1827. *1 Evidence. Answers. Practice. Usury. Pleading. Rents. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Usury 398 k 111(2) 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(B) Rights and Remedies of Parties 398k111 Pleading 398k111(2) k. Actions and Proceedings to Enforce  Usurious Contract or Security. Most Cited Cases Where a maker of a note alleges usury in answer to a bill against him by an assignee, and the usury is confessed by the payee, but denied by the assignee, against whom there is no proof, the maker may have a decree over against the payee. It is not necessary, in such answer, to allege in terms that the transaction was usurious. If the facts appear, it is sufficient. Bills and Notes 56 k 302 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(B) Indorsement for Transfer 56k302 k. Liabilities of Indorser to Maker. Most Cited  Cases F. executed to C. a note based upon a usurious consideration.  C. assigned the note to P., who brought suit thereon against F. and C. F. set up usury as a defense, and C. admitted usury in his answer.  F. was unable to prove the usury as against P., and P. obtained a judgment against him. Held, that F. was entitled to a judgment against C. for the amount which he was compelled to pay P. under the judgment. Equity 150 k 423 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k423 k. Nature and Extent of Relief in General. Most Cited Cases Where, in a bill by an obligor against the obligee and assignee to enjoin the judgment of the assignee on the ground of usury, the obligee admits, and the assignee denies the fact, and, for want of proof an injunction is refused, the obligor may have a decree against the obligee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Pritchett filed his bill against Joseph Fanning and George Case, alleging that Fanning had executed his note to Case, and paid three dollars in part discharge thereof, and Case had sold and assigned to him about $90 part thereof, and that he had lost the note, and with it his remedy at law, and prays for a decree for the amount so assigned to him, and for general relief. Bill in equity on a lost note. Fanning answered admitting the execution of the note, and that he believed part of it was assigned to the complainant; but insists that he is not bound to pay it, because it arose on the following consideration. He was embarrassed and had need of some money to discharge his debts, and procured Case to advance for him one hundred dollars in payment of his debts. But a certain George Johnson set up a claim to the tract of land on which he resided, being 109 acres, and finding he could extinguish that claim for $100, he also applied to, and caused Case to make the purchase and advance the money for him. That to secure Case for these advancements, he executed a writing designed to operate as a mortgage for his land, in which he agrees to pay rent to Case for the land; and had also allowed Case to take forty timber trees from the land, worth one dollar or more per tree. That Case took these trees, and at the close of four years, he paid to Case $213 in addition to the trees, but Case still insisted on the rent as well as legal interest, which produced the balance of $107 for which he executed this note, and the mortgage was given up. He insists that by the $213 and the 40 timber trees, he has paid Case more than the legal interest for the $200, and that he is not equitably entitled to pay more. He makes Case a defendant to his answer, as if it was a bill filed against him, and prays a decree against Case for all that he has paid or shall have to pay more than legal interest. *2 Fanning's answer, admitting the execution of the note, but impeaching the consideration. Case answered the bill of Pritchett, admitting the assignment of the note to him to the amount of $90, and alleges that he is entitled to the balance, except three dollars which Fanning paid him before assignment. Answer of Case to Pritchett's bill. Case also answered the answer of Fanning admitting substantially all the allegations therein, and prays that he may have a decree against Fanning for the balance of the note not assigned to Pritchett, except the three dollars. Case's answer to Fanning's cross bill. The court below decreed that Pritchett should recover of Fanning the $90 with interest, and also that Case should recover of Fanning the balance of $107 with interest. To reverse this decree Fanning has prosecuted this writ of error. Decree of the circuit court. We perceive no objection to the decree of Pritchett against Fanning. For although Fanning set up a good defence to the note, and that is, that it arose out of, and was the balance of the mortgage transaction, yet he failed to make proof of the consideration of the note, except by the answer of Case to his own bill, which according to well settled principles can be no evidence against Pritchett, and it is not proved by other evidence, for what consideration the note was given. The decree which Pritchett has obtained must therefore stand unaltered. Answer of one defendant, as here the obligee, is no evidence against another defendant, the assignee. But the case is different between Fanning and Case. The instrument of writing which they both term a mortgage, expresses that Case had bought from Fanning, not his land, but his improvements, at the price of one hundred dollars. That Fanning was to continue in the occupancy thereof for four years, the first of these years rent free, and at the annual rent of thirty dollars, for the remaining three, and that Fanning was to have them back again at the end of the time, on paying three hundred and twenty dollars, or if he failed in the payment thereof he was to surrender the possession to Case, and in the meantime was to abstain from using the timber improperly, and Case was allowed to use forty timber trees. These trees he got as the evidence demonstrates, and he confesses, that at the expiration of the time, Fanning paid him $213, and executed the note now in contest for $107, just making three hundred and twenty dollars provided for. For this he advanced $100, and paid for the claim of Geo. Johnson $100 more, as he alleges in his original answer, but as he states in an amended answer, which he files by way of correction of his first, only two-thirds of that sum. So that the amount actually advanced by him was, $166 67 which, with legal interest for four years, would amount to $206 67. For this he has received first, $213, then three more paid to him before this note was assigned, and the proof is clear, that he got forty timber trees worth at least $40, making a sum of $49 33, beyond his original loan with interest, besides what Fanning has now to pay to Pritchett. This sum of $49 33, he is entitled to recover, as well as the sum for which Pritchett has obtained his decree in the present cause, unless there is some legal impediment not yet noticed. *3 Statement of the facts of the usurious transaction. The only ground on which there can be a plausible reliance to defeat this recovery, is, that Fanning in his answer, which he makes a bill against Case, has not declared that the contract was usurious in so many words, nor has he called the money advanced for him by Case, a loan. We have already held at the present term in the case of Rhodes' executors v.  Bush, (5 Mon. 467,) that it is unnecessary to make such express allegations, if the facts set out on which relief is prayed, amount, in law, to a borrowing, and the interest received exceeds the legal rate. That far Fanning has gone, and although he does not employ the terms borrowing, usury, or corrupt agreement, yet he expressly shows what was advanced, what he was to pay, and what he has paid, and alleges that Case has received more than legal interest. An obligor who is compelled for defect of proof, against the assignee of the usurious consideration, which is confessed by his obligee in his answer, to pay the judgment, may have a decree over against the obligee for the amount. Besides the agreement which he sets out as part of his answer, exhibits on its face, a device badly concealed to avoid the statute; an attempt to dignify usury with the appellation of rent, a device not unusual, and one that has as frequently met with judicial condemnation. Indeed without the use of the terms aforesaid, Case seems to have well understood what was intended. He speaks of interest, which he says was not usury in his answer. And when a witness spoke of extra interest, he enquires how that can be, when neither the mortgage nor the answers of any of the parties named extra interest. It is not necessary in a bill for relief against usurious interest, to allege in terms, the transaction was a loan at usurious interest; if the facts appear it is sufficient. Usury disguised under the name of rent. The decree therefore of Pritchett v. Fanning must be affirmed without costs, as Fanning has made default; but the decree in favor of Case against Fanning must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that a decree may be entered in favor of Fanning, which shall conform to this opinion. Wickliffe, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. Fanning v. Pritchett 6 T.B.Mon. 79, 22 Ky. 79, 1827 WL 1636 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
