(Cite as: 4 Litt. 153,  14 Ky. 153 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1242 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Collins, &c. v. Farquar. Oct. 15, 1823. *1 FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JOHN P. OLDHAM SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 8(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352I Nature and Grounds of Remedy 352k4 Grounds and Scope of Remedy 352k8 Equitable Set-Off 352k8(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases In general, chancery has no jurisdiction in cases of discount or set-off where the party has a plan redress at law, not only by pleading it, but by an original suit;  but it has jurisdiction in special cases, as where the matter sought to be discounted forms a part of the consideration of the original demand against which the discount is prayed, or there has been agreement between the parties to make such set-off, or the matter of set-off was understood at the time it arose as a partial payment of the original demand, or where some circumstance, such as the insolvency or absence of the plaintiff at law, obstructs the adequate remedy at law. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 35(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k35 Demands Not Liquidated 352k35(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases The damages to be recovered for a breach of a contract not to carry on a particular business in a certain place are uncertain, and must be liquidated in an action at law before they can form a proper item of set-off in a suit in equity. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 35(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k35 Demands Not Liquidated 352k35(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Chancery should not sustain as a set-off a sum so uncertain as to require a jury to be impaneled to liquidate it;  but a judgment at law should be first obtained, and, if there is equity of set-off, it should be presented as liquidated by the judgment. Damages 115 k 78(3) 115 Damages 115IV Liquidated Damages and Penalties 115k75 Construction of Stipulations 115k78 Form and Language of Instrument 115k78(3) k. Contract Not to Engage in Particular  Business. Most Cited Cases An agreement not to carry on the book-selling business in a particular town under the penalty of $300 does not entitle the person to whom it was made to recover the $300 if it is broken, but only to recover the damages sustained. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases Equity will not entertain jurisdiction where there is an adequate remedy at law. Equity 150 k 46 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k45 Adequacy of Legal Remedy 150k46 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Equity will not refuse relief because of the existence of a remedy at law, unless such remedy is adequate. WHITTLESEY and CRANE for plaintiffs; DENNY for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 The defendant in error filed his bill, with injunction, against the plaintiffs, Gabriel and John Collins, seeking relief against a judgment at law, obtained against him by said Gabriel, as assignee of John, alleging that he had been the partner of said John in a book-store and book-bindery in Louisville; that after many attempts to separate, the partnership was dissolved, by his purchasing the stock on hand and debts due, and assuming the debts owing from the firm, for which he agreed to give twelve and one-half per cent. on the amount of cost and carriage, and to collect the debts and pay a part to said John Collins, all which was written in an article of agreement between the parties; that it was also stipulated, that the said John Collins should no more pursue the business of a bookseller and binder in Louisville, during his continuance in the business, for which he was to give the additional sum of three hundred dollars; that the writer omitted to include this in the article, until it was completed, but, at the suggestion of the parties, annexed it as a postscript, in the following words: "The said Farquar further agrees to pay said Collins, over and above the sum specified, three hundred dollars, so soon as collecttions can be made, or as said Collins may want money for market;" that he gave three notes for the sum which he was to pay in the purchase, two of which he had paid, and the third was the one on which the judgment at law is founded, and that he had also paid the said three hundred dollars. His grounds of equity are the following: First, that through the depreciation of the currency, since he made the contract, he had lost upwards of five hundred dollars, by having to receive the debts due to the firm in depreciated money, and pay those debts due from the firm, according to the specie standard. Secondly, that he had collected large demands due to the firm, with great diligence, on which he charges a commission of ten per cent. amounting to five hundred dollars more. Thirdly, he alleges that he was charged carriage from Philadelphia, on books bought in Louisville, to the amount of one hundred and thirty-five dollars, which was included in the notes. Lastly, that the plaintiff in error, John Collins, had set up and carried on another book-store in Louisville, in contravention of his contract to refrain from it; so that he, the said defendant, was entitled to recover back the three hundred dollars paid for that restriction. A court of chancery has not concurrent jurisdiction with a court of law, in all cases of discount or set-off. Where the party has a plain redress at law, not merely by pleading, but by an original suit, chancery has, in general, no jurisdiction. The special cases in which it has jurisdiction, are, where the matter sought to be discounted forms a part of the consideration of the original demand against which the discount is prayed, or there has been an agreement between the parties, to make such set-off, or the matter of set-off was understood, at the time when it arose, as a partial payment, or from the insolvency or absence of the plaintiff at law, the remedy at law would be incomplete. *3 The answers deny the right of the defendant in error to any relief, on all the grounds stated, and deny the contract to refrain from vending books in Louisville, and aver that the three hundred dollars was part of the purchase money for the stock in trade. The court below empannelled a jury to enquire into the fact, whether there was such contract to refrain from vending books, as charged in the bill and composing the consideration of the three hundred dollars paid. The jury found in the affirmative. The court thereupon disallowed all other charges, except the three hundred dollars, which was directed to be credited on the judgment at law, and the injunction was perpetuated to that amount, and dissolved as to the residue. To reverse this decree, this writ of error is prosecuted by the defendants in the court below. It seems improper, that chancery should sustain as a set-off, a sum so uncertain as to require a jury to be empannelled to liquidate it; it is more proper, that a judgment at law should be first obtained, and if there was equity of set-off, to present it as liquidated by the judgment. As to all the grounds of equity stated, except the three hundred dollars, but little need be said. The face of the bill shows that they ought not to be allowed. Surely the plaintiffs in error were not bound for any deflciency occasioned by the subsequent depreciation, or to pay a commission on collection, without any stipulation to that effect; and none such is pretended in the bill or found in the written contract. The carriage on the books bought in Louisville, is equally groundless. The amount of it was included in the notes, after the article of dissolution was drawn; and it is not pretended by the complainant, that he was ignorant of it at the time he executed the notes, or that the sum was taken in by any mistake or fraud, but by his own agreement, which is, by the testimony, clearly established. An agreement not to carry on the bookselling business in a particular town, under the penalty of $300, does not entitle the person with whom it was made, to recover $300 if it is broken, but only to recover the damages sustained. The main question, then, must rest on the claim for three hundred dollars. Some questions are made by the assignment of error, arising out of a bill of exceptions taken at the trial. It is also contended that the merits of the case are for the plaintiff in error, and that the case was not one proper for the jurisdiction of the chancellor. Before we notice any other, we shall dispose of the question of jurisdiction. It is contended on the opposite side, that the matter of complaint constitutes a setoff, and that in all cases the chancellor has concurrent jurisdiction of discount or set-off, with a court of law. This latter assumption would be hard to establish as a general rule. It is not correct, that the chancellor will entertain jurisdiction in all cases of set-off, where the party has a plain redress at law, not by pleading it only, but by an original action brought for that purpose. This court, by a current of authorities, has not supported such jurisdiction, except in special cases, such as where the matter sought to be discounted forms part of the consideration of the original demand against which the discount is prayed, or where there has been an agreement between the parties to make such set-off, or the matter of set-off was understood, at the time when it arose, as a partial payment of the original demand, or?? where some circumstance, such as the insolvency or absence of the plaintiff at law, obstructs the adequate remedy at law. In these and similar cases only, has the jurisdiction of the chancellor been maintained by this court. It is sufficient now to observe, that the case of the defendant in error is not attended, according to his own bill, with any such peculiar circumstance, nor is there any apology for admitting his action at law, upon the supposed contract not to exercise the same calling in Louisville, and resorting to the chancellor for redress. It would, then, be difficult to sustain the jurisdiction, even if the matter claimed in this instance was a liquidated sum, proper to compose an item of set-off. But even this cannot be conceded. The court below seems to have drawn the conclusion, that if there was such contract, and it was broken, the restoration of the three hundred dollars certainly followed. This is not a necessary or legitimate conclusion from the premises. The damages for the breach of such contract might be either less or more. This subject was discussed and decided between these same parties, when the judgment at law now enjoined was before this court on an appeal, at October term, 1820. The damages to be recovered for the breach of such contract, are uncertain, and need liquidation in an action at law, before they could form a proper item of set-off. The chancellor, therefore, ought not first to liquidate, and then to discount them, when the proper tribunal is open for that purpose. We, of course, conceive that the jurisdiction assumed, cannot be supported on any point, which renders it unnecessary to say anything on the other points made by the assignment of error. *4 3 Marsh, 31. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below to dismiss the bill with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1823. Collins v. Farquar 4 Litt. 153, 14 Ky. 153, 1823 WL 1242 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
