(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 251,  21 Ky. 251 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1541 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Stout v. Ashton, &c. Jun. 26, 1827. *1 Lost Obligations. Jurisdiction. Sureties. Dismission. Bar by Former Decision. APPEAL FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE. JUDGE. West Headnotes Lost Instruments 246 k 14 246 Lost Instruments 246k13 Actions on Lost Instruments 246k14 k. Nature and Form. Most Cited Cases That a note has been sent to another state and judgment obtained there against one of the parties to it does not give equity jurisdiction against the others, unless it is shown that neither the original nor copies can be obtained by the laws of that state, and the bill should be dismissed without prejudice. Principal and Surety 309 k 125 309 Principal and Surety 309III Discharge of Surety 309k124 Neglect to Act or Proceed Against Principal 309k125 k. In General. Most Cited Cases The mere fact that the creditor delayed suing until the principal became insolvent does not necessarily discharge the surety. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The complainant sets up in his bill, two notes against the defendants, which he charges were lost or mislaid, whereby he can not recover at law, but must come into equity to recover the amount thereof. Bill to recover on a lost obligation against obligors. The process was executed on one defendant, but not on the other. One obligor only summoned. The one on whom the process was executed, answered, denying that the notes were lost or mislaid, but alleging that they were sent to Tennessee, where the other defendant resided, for the purpose of collection, by complainant's intestate, to whom they were given; that one of them was there settled by the absent obligor or maker, and surrendered to him by the agent of the complainant's intestate, to whom they were sent for collection; and that the other had been put into suit, and judgment obtained against the absent defendant, and therefore, he insists the chancellor has no jurisdiction, and that the remedy is at law. Answer. He also alleges that the absentee was the principal, and he a security only; that all the parties resided in the same county till long after said notes became due, and that he had insisted on the intestate of the complainant pursuing the principal by suit, which he failed to do, and permitted said principal to leave the state openly, and with the knowledge of the said intestate, and that he was then solvent, and now wholly insolvent; and that of course, the surety is no longer liable. The proof sustains the case, as relied on by the defendant below. Proof of the answer. The court overruled the plea to the jurisdiction, but determined on the merits, that the surety was released from the obligation. We can not concur with the court below, by supposing the surety to be released by the mere laches or neglect of the obligee to bring suit. No case which has come under our notice goes that far. On the contrary, it is well settled, that mere delay in bringing suit by the obligee, though urged to do so by the surety, does not discharge the surety, and for a good reason. The surety has undertaken positively to pay the debt. If his obligee will not sue, and he is in danger, he can relieve himself by fulfilling his obligation, that is by paying his debt and taking the whip into his own hands, and pursuing his principal. So far, therefore, as the decree decided in favor of the release of the surety it can not be sustained. *2 Surety is not released by the long delay of the obligee to sue the principal, who in the time becomes insolvent and removes out of the state. But on the point of jurisdiction, we also disagree with the court below. As to one of the notes, it was given up, and the action thereon was gone forever. The other has been sent out of the state, for collection, by the intestate of the complainant himself; and it would be going very far to say that an obligee should be allowed to destroy all remedy at law on his bonds or other securities for money, and give the chancellor jurisdiction thereof, by sending them out of the state, and thus keeping them out of sight. This note has been put in suit in a sister state, and judgment obtained thereon, against one of the obligors, and it is not shown that the laws of Tennessee retain this note, and will not permit it to be withdrawn, and we can not presume that they do. Equity does not obtain jurisdiction against one obligor in consequence of obligee sending the obligation to another state, and there recovering a judgment against another obligor upon it. In most, if not all the states, a note may be withdrawn, by application to the proper authority, unless a non est factum has been pleaded thereto. Withdrawing notes sued on. It will be also in the power of the party to obtain a copy of it, or the record, if the laws refuse to him the original note, and when the law retains an original, it is generally in the power of an obligee to proceed at law, by making profert of a copy, and it will be time enough for the chancellor to interfere when it shall be shown that neither the original nor a copy can be had by the laws of that state. How to sue on obligations in the custody of the law. As the decree, therefore, dismissed the bill expressly on the merits, which might bar the future assertion of claim on this note, and not for want of jurisdiction, and of course, without prejudice to future claim, the decree must be reversed, each one bearing his own costs in this court, and the cause be remanded, that the bill may there be dismissed with costs, and without prejudice to any future suit for the same cause of complaint. Where in a bill on a lost note, the loss is denied, and the note appears to be in existence, the bill shall not be dismissed absolutely, but without prejudice. Wickliffe, for appellant; Chinn and Haggin and Loughborough, for appellees. Ky.App. 1827. Stout v. Ashton 5 T.B.Mon. 251, 21 Ky. 251, 1827 WL 1541 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
