(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 400,  19 Ky. 400 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1327 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Finley, Trustee for McClain v. Nancy Tyler (a person of color.) Dec. 19, 1826. *1 Bill for New Trial. Trustee and Cestui Que Trust. Bill of Review. APPEAL FROM THE WHITLEY CIRCUIT; JOSEPH EVE, JUDGE. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 108(1) 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(H) Newly Discovered Evidence 275k108 Sufficiency and Probable Effect 275k108(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Newly discovered evidence, to entitle a party to a new trial on that ground, must be of so permanent and unerring a character as to preponderate greatly, or have a decisive influence on the evidence to be overturned by it. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Nancy Tyler, a person of colour, brought her action of trespass, assault, battery and imprisonment, asserting her right to freedom, against Travis Finley, and on an issue made involving her freedom or slavery she succeeded. Evidence was given on both sides, conducing to establish the respective claims, and among the rest a witness introduced on the part of the plaintiff, named Ayers Witt, gave evidence in her favor. A new trial was moved for, relying on the insufficiency of all the evidence, and also on the ground of surprise by the testimony of the witness Witt. The court overruled the motion, and on an appeal to this court the judgment was affirmed. See  1 Litt. Rep. 161. Case of assault and battery and false imprisonment by appellee asserting her freedom; verdict for her motion of Finley for new trial, overruled, and judgment affirmed here. Afterwards Finley filed this bill praying the chancellor to interfere, and grant a new trial at law. Bill by Finley the trustee for new trial, on the ground of the discovery of witnesses to prove that plaintiff's principal witness had, in all his statements, committed perjury, and to establish that appellee was born a slave and not free. He states that he had purchased the slave from a certain Thomas McClain in Tennessee, where they both resided at the time, and afterwards he removed with Nancy to Kentucky; that after the action at law was brought, to save trouble and expense, he rescinded his contract with McClain, and restored him the slave in Tennessee. But she ran away, or was stolen away and came back to Kentucky, and progressed with her suit, under the protection of the court; that McClain applied for leave to defend, and did defend the suit, and that this bill is brought exclusively for his benefit; that Nancy claimed her freedom as her birth right, because she was born of a free woman; that on the trial, evidence was examined on both sides, and before the close of the testimony the said Witt in effect established her right to freedom, and that the jury found the plaintiff to be free on the evidence of Witt. He states further that, since the suit was tried, he has discovered that the facts sworn to by Witt are wholly untrue, and that said Witt, on the trial had committed perjury.--That Witt swore in effect that Nancy was the daughter of Polly Tyler, a free woman, with whom he had been once acquainted, and that he had seen her child get an injury in the eye brow which left a scar, which was relied on as a circumstance to identify her.--That these facts, he has no doubt, were fabricated by him in concert with Nancy, to effectuate her freedom. He then states that he can prove by sundry witnesses whom he names in Washington and Sullivan counties in Tennessee, that Polly Tyler was not the mother of Nancy, and that in truth she never was the mother of a female child, and that Nancy is the daughter of a female slave by the name of Milly, now owned by a man by the name of Williams in the state of Tennessee. *2 He states that he was not apprised of these facts on the trial of the suit at law, although he used all the diligence he could to procure testimony before the trial came on; that the witnesses discovered, live between 80 and 150 miles from him, and he did not know that he could procure any such testimony in that quarter, until after the terms at which the trial was had, when for the purpose of ascertaining the truth of what Witt had desposed, and of satisfying himself fully on the subject, he went to the parts where the said witnesses lived, and where Witt placed the scene of his knowledge, and there be found the facts stated by him were positively untrue. He then states that Nancy was owned by several persons, before she was owned by McClain, and the immediate vendor to McClain was dead before the action at law was tried, and he was, therefore, unable to trace Nancy back to her nativity, in the way he has been enabled to do since he heard the testimony of Witt, and made the discovery aforesaid, which that evidence led to. He makes the record at law a part of his bill, and alleges that the bill of exceptions therein contains the whole evidence, and that the testimony of Witt therein contained, was material to the point in issue, and must have had great weight with the jury, and that if he could have had the benefit of the evidence of the persons named as witnesses newly discovered, the finding of the jury would, in all probability have been different. He further alleges that he has discovered since the trial at law that Witt had confessed to a witness named by him, that all he knew on the subject he had learned from Nancy herself. To this bill the counsel for Nancy demurred, and the court sustained the demurrer, and dismissed the bill, from which decree he has appealed. Demurrer sustained and bill dismissed. It may be a matter worthy of some consideration, as ingeniously contended in the argument of this cause, whether the chancellor ought in any case to grant a new trial at law for the purpose of taking away a right to freedom gained at law. For as the chancellor will only interfere to take from a party a legal advantage, which in conscience he can not retain, it may be doubted whether a right to freedom can ever be a claim of that character. It may at all events be assumed that the case which would warrant such interference ought to be strong and clear. Query--Whether equity will in any case grant a new trial where freedom has been gained at law. If it will, the case must be clear and strong. But without expressing any decisive opinion on this point, there is no necessity of resorting to it in this case, for the purpose of deciding against the right of the appellant. For other well settled principles, applicable to cases where the chancellor will interfere, are conclusive against the relief sought in this bill. Where the cestui que trust was the better informed of the facts, and did himself manage the defence in the action at law, the bill for a new trial, on the ground of surprise and the subsequent discovery of evidence, must shew his, not the trustee's previous want of knowledge, his surprise and subsequent discovery; and the affidavit must be made by him. *3 The bill is not as free from evasion as it ought to be to warrant this decree. McClain is the person really concerned in interest, and the person who defended the suit at law, who had an earlier acquaintance with the appellee, and a better opportunity of knowing her nativity. Yet he is only the cestui que trust of this suit, and not a legal party. He has not sworn to the bill, nor has he or his trustee given us his knowledge or his ignorance of the nativity of Nancy, or the exertions he made in defending the suit at law, or the discoveries he made of testimony. For any thing that appears, he knew of Nancy's birth or how to trace it, or discovered all these witnesses, but thought it not proper to use them as the defense was given up to him. If a bill by a naked trustee, under such circumstances, should be sustained, it would furnish an easy expedient to procure a new trial, on evidence know long before the trial, but kept back as unnecessary, or through indolence in numerous cases. Add to this, the bill is drawn with still greater appearance of art. For it not only keeps out of sight the knowledge and discoveries of McClain, but alleges that the plaintiff till after the trial knew of no witnesses in that quarter to prove the same facts, without asserting that he knew of none elsewhere. Negative pregnant in the bill given its weight against complainant. Again: The claim of Nancy was founded on birthright, and her claim in that respect was known to be in issue. Searching the place and circumstances of her birth, and who was her mother was the very inquiry suggested by the suit and its issue, and therefore imposed upon the defendant due diligence. It was known before the trial that Witt would be a witness, and something of the nature of his testimony, and the defendant was then prepared to impeach his testimony, and did introduce evidence for that purpose while the opposite party corroborated it; so that the attention of the parties had been particularly directed to that matter, and the motion for a new trial was predicated in part on the same enquiry. Consequently every fact and point which the bill offers to prove was completely in issue at the trial at law and evidence pro and con actually adduced by the parties. This application then is solely a struggle for leave to introduce more testimony on the same points, since discovered, and that consisting in the swearing of witnesses only, of a character as uncertain, as erring, and as dangerous as the testimony, which it is intended to impeach, and as liable to be discredited in its turn. Where the party knew the disputed fact and also his adversary witness, and did adduce evidence both as to the principal question and against the credit of the adversary witness, and afterwards moved for a new trial, the chancellor will not grant it on the ground of the discovery of additional witnesses. The rule is well settled that to sustain a bill for a review or a new trial at law, the evidence, if it applies to points formerly in issue must be of such a permanent nature and unerring character, as to preponderate greatly, or have a decisive influence upon the evidence which is to be overturned by it. See Respass v. Clanahan, Hard. 345;  Eales v. Shackleford, 1 Litt. Rep. 35;  Yancey v. Downer, 5 Litt. Rep. 10. It is uncertain whether the result would be different if the complainant was allowed a new trial. But the best face upon the case, it is one where success might be hopeful, and worth the experiment if allowed, and such experiments ought not to be indulged by the chancellor. *4 To sustain a bill for a review or new trial at law, the evidence discovered, if it applies to points before an issue must be of a permanent nature and unerring character. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Triplett, for appellant; Mayes, for appellee. Ky.App. 1826. Finley v. Tyler 3 T.B.Mon. 400, 19 Ky. 400, 1826 WL 1327 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
