(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 64,  17 Ky. 64 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1485 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Downing, Heydell, &c. v. Palmateer. Oct. 9, 1824. *1 Mortgage, Waste, Rent, Interest, Practice. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Landlord and Tenant 233 k 1597 233 Landlord and Tenant 233VII Rent 233VII(B) Actions 233k1597 k. Damages. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 233k232) Where a demand for rent is secured by specialty, the statute gives interest. Mortgages 266 k 567(1) 266 Mortgages 266X Foreclosure by Action 266X(O) Disposition of Proceeds and Surplus 266k567 Right to Surplus 266k567(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Where a party has other securities for part of his debt, and a mortgage for the rest, and the mortgaged property is decreed to be sold, it is erroneous to direct defendant to pay the surplus after satisfying the mortgaged debt to complainant, and that complainant have execution therefor. Mortgages 266 k 568 266 Mortgages 266X Foreclosure by Action 266X(O) Disposition of Proceeds and Surplus 266k568 k. Proceedings for distribution. Most Cited  Cases Complainant in a suit to foreclose a mortgage may proceed at law for a surplus either before, at the time of, or after, the chancery suit. Waste 404 k 17 404 Waste 404k14 Actions for Waste 404k17 k. Injunction. Most Cited Cases The chancellor will, on a bill filed for that purpose, restrain waste, but so far as the bill seeks to recover for waste committed, it cannot be sustained. Chattel Mortgages 76 k 281 76 Chattel Mortgages 76IX Foreclosure 76k268 Actions to Foreclose 76k281 k. Injunction and receiver. Most Cited  Cases Where a bill is brought to foreclose the mortgage of a slave, and he is hired out by order of the chancellor pending the suit, the proceeds of the hire should be applied in payment of the mortgage debt. Chattel Mortgages 76 k 283 76 Chattel Mortgages 76IX Foreclosure 76k268 Actions to Foreclose 76k283 k. Judgment or decree and execution. Most Cited  Cases It is error, in a decree foreclosing a mortgage, to leave it with the commissioner appointed to sell, to decide whether payment or tender is made, and to authorize him, in case of default, to make the sale. Chattel Mortgages 76 k 283 76 Chattel Mortgages 76IX Foreclosure 76k268 Actions to Foreclose 76k283 k. Judgment or decree and execution. Most Cited  Cases The correct practice is for the chancellor on the first hearing to decide on the sum due, to give a day for the payment, and to decree a foreclosure and a sale nisi, and afterwards, in term, to decide whether this decree has been performed, and if not, to make it absolute. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Statement of the case. Palmateer, the defendant in error, leased to Mary and Will D. Heydell, two of the plaintiffs in error, a stable and tavern in Lexington, with its necessary furniture, for one year, which commenced on the 20th March, 1821, and as evidence of the contract, entered into articles of agreement, stipulating the rent of three hundred dollars, also, thirty dollars for the hire of a negro woman slave, part of the time, and agreeing to pay to Palmateer, for what liquors and other necessaries he had and should advance, to the amount of one hundred and twenty dollars. Shortly afterwards, said plaintiffs in error executed to Palmateer a mortgage on a female slave. The mortgage recites, substantially, the same agreement for renting, and is conditioned to be void on their paying to him the three hundred dollars for rent, and not exceeding one hundred and fifty dollars for the hire of the slave and articles which had and should be furnished. In December, 1821, before the rent became due, or the term expired, Palmateer filed this bill, alleging that he had furnished the said Mary and W. D. Heydell, with articles, liquors, &c. to the amount of two hundred dollars; that he had become their security to another person, which he should have to pay; that they had destroyed and wasted the articles leased to them, as well as injured the house, to a large amount in value; that they had but little property, and what they had was fast disappearing; and that they were intending to remove the slave mortgaged, out of the jurisdiction of the court, and put it out of his power to reach her, and to defraud him, had put her in possession of a certain Francis Downing, who then held her, and whom he makes defendant also. He prayed that an injunction might be granted to stay waste; that the defendants might be compelled to pay for the waste already done, assessed by a jury; that they might be enjoined and restrained from removing the slave; and that she might be subjected to the demands aforesaid. An order was obtained, directing, that unless the defendants gave bond and security to have the slave forthcoming to answer the decree of the court, the sheriff should take her and hire her out, the end of the next February term. The sheriff returned the process executed, and that the slave was surrendered to him. After the suit had stood the requisite length of time, it was heard without an answer, and the bill was taken for confessed, the terms of the lease being then long expired. The court decreed that the complainant should recover four hundred and fifty dollars, to-wit, the rent and the one hundred and fifty dollars for slave hire and articles furnished, with interest from the 20th March, 1822, until paid, and also, fifty dollars, the excess of articles furnished, without interest; and that unless the defendants paid it in about three months, their equity of redemption for the slave should be foreclosed, and a commissioner named should sell her, taking bonds for her price, without saying to whom, or directing how the price should be disposed of. *3 Allegations of the bill. Order of the chancellor. Decree of the circuit court on the bill pro confesso. To reverse this decree, the defendants below have prosecuted this writ of error. (1.) One objection made to this bill, is, that it is brought prematurely, before any thing was due. It is certain that the bill, so far as it sought to restrain waste, would lie; for it is too well settled to need the ??aid of authority, that the chancellor will, on a bill filed ??or that purpose, with proper allegations, restrain waste. So far as the bill seeks to recover for the waste committed, it can not be sustained, and the court below ??cted properly in disregarding it. (1) The chancellor will, on bill filed with proper allegations, restrain waste. (2.) Whether the bill could so far anticipate the end ??f the term for the rent due, under the charges therein, ??s the main question. If the demand was purely legal, ?? might be readily conceded, that the chancellor would ??ot interfere, but would leave the party to the conse??uences of his misplaced confidence; but there being a ??ortgage in this case to secure the demand, gave a ??urt of equity jurisdiction of it; and where the de??and is of a character belonging to the jurisdiction of ?? court of equity, the chancellor will, when justice is ??out to be evaded, anticipate the hour when the de??and is due, so far as to secure the subject on which ??e demand is to operate. Such are writs of ne exeat, ??hich are granted when great danger of injustice is ??parent, in cases only where the demand is equitable. (2) Where a demand is secured by mortgage, the chancellor has jurisdiction, and will anticipate the hour of payment, so far as to secure the mortgaged property. (3.) Indeed, in a case of rents, such as this, where the ??tate on which the distress can onerate, is about to be ??moved before the term expires, or the rent is due, a court of law may interfere and secure it, according to an act of the legislature of Virginia, still in force in this country. See 2 Dig. L. K. 1062. We do not, therefore, conceive that the chancellor interfered in this case prematurely, under the allegations of the bill, which showed that the slave was about to be removed, and that measures were in operation to take her off, and that there was little or no prospect of having the demand satisfied out of any other fund. The lease or article of agreement, made part of the bill, shows when the debt is due, without an amended bill. (2) When the property subject to distress for rent is about to be removed before the rent is due, a court of law may, under the statute, 2 Dig. 1062, interfere; ergo, chancellor may. (4.) We can not, however, sustain the vague terms of this decree, which directed the slave to be sold, without appropriating the price, or directing that the balance, if any, should be paid over to the defendants, who had thereby no mode left them to come at any surplus of price which might remain. It is true, such balance would equitably belong to them; but still it is right for the chancellor, in the same contest, to guard their rights, and to afford them, by his decree, a remedy for the balance, without driving them to another suit. Such direction ought to have been inserted. *4 (4) In a decree for selling mortgaged estate, provision ought to be made for payment of surplus to the mortgagor. (5.) Nor do we approve the decree of the court which gave day before the final foreclosure and sale of the estate, and then directed the commissioner to proceed?? leaving it to him to ascertain whether the money was?? paid or tendered, and to decide accordingly. Whethe?? the tender was or was not a good one, and whether th?? payment was or was not made, was left to his adjudica?? tion, when it belonged to the court to decide on suc?? matters. (5) It is error in a decree foreclosing a mortgage, to leave it with the commissioner appointed to sell, to decide whether payment or tender is made, and to authorize him, in case ofdefault, to make the sale. (6.) The practice of courts of equity on this subjec?? is simple, and ought not to be departed from. Wha?? soever controversies may arise about the validity of ?? mortgage, its forfeiture and its payment in whole or i?? part, is decided upon at the first hearing, and the cou?? ascertains what is due, which, in the case of conteste?? accounts and payments, is or may be previously do?? by a commissioner, and then, by interlocutory decre?? declares that unless this sum is paid or tendered by ?? particular time, the mortgage shall be foreclosed, a?? a sale decreed, if a sale is proper to be had. The tin?? so given ought to expire in term time, and is som?? times, under extraordinary circumstances, lengthen?? by the chancellor. If, when that time expires, pa??ment is proved, with such costs as the chancellor shall adjudge, the mortgage is released, and there is an end of the controversy. If a tender and refusal is relied on, the money is brought into court, with such costs as shall be allowed, and the party is thus allowed to redeem. If, on the contrary, neither payment no?? tender is relied on, (on all which matters the court ought to adjudge), the court may decree an absolute foreclosure, in many cases, without a sale. But if a sale is prayed for and deemed expedient, the chancellor decrees it accordingly, and appoints his commissioner to execute it. This proceeding is so contrary, both in form and substance, to that adopted by the court below, that the decree, for this cause, can not be sustained. (6) The correct practice is, for the chancellor, on the first hearing, to decide on the sum due, to give a day for the payment, and to decree a foreclosure and a sale nisi, and afterwards, in term, to decide whether this decree had been performed, and if not, to make it absolute. (7.) Another objection to this decree, is, that it decrees the whole amount to the complainant, as positively as, and in the words of a judgment at law, and gives to the complainant an execution to recover either the whole of it or any balance that may remain due. The practice of decreeing either the whole sums, or balances which may be due after sales are executed on mortgages, where the party, as in this case, holds legal securities, on which he may recover the residue at law, appears, in some instances, to have crept into the practice of this country, through inattention to principle; and we are satisfied that it can not be sustained, consistent with the powers of a court of equity. Where there is a legal remedy for the demand, law still retains its rights over the controversy, and equity only attaches so far as to subject the pledge to the payment, which a court of law will not do. And although, in many cases, a court of equity will finish the whole matter, yet these are cases where its aid is necessary to proceed at all in the matter, and not where law can proceed without it, and equity only has its particular part to act. *5 (7) In a decree directing a sale of mortgaged estate, where the mortgagee holds legal securities for the demand, it can not be decreed that the defendant pay the complainant the balance, after the proceeds of the sale are applied, and that the complainant have execution. (8.) Hence we conclude, that proceedings to foreclose a mortgage are only proceedings in rem, to reach the pledge, and when that is accomplished, equity has nothing further to do in the matter. The party can proceed at law on his securities, either before, at the time ??of, or after the end of the chancery?? suit, and can not, in ??general, be compelled to make his election in which ?? court he will proceed, as in cases where chancery and law have concurrent jurisdiction. He is, therefore, bound to resort to each court to perform its appropriate functions; and as he can not be prevented from proceeding at law, he ought not to be permitted to ask the chancellor to do more for him than law can not do. See Dunkley v. Vanbeuren, &c. 3 John. Chan. Rep. 330. (8) Proceeding to foreclose a mortgage is in rem to reach the pledge and equity has nothing else to do. The party may proceed at law, either before, at the time of, or after the chancery suit--Argu. (9.) It is insisted that the court erred in decreeing interest to the complainant below, on four hundred and fifty dollars of this demand; that one-third of it was for articles furnished, and partook of the nature of an open account, and the residue was for rent; and that interest on rent could not be given, according to the opinion of this court in the case of Breckinridge v. Brooks, 2 Marsh.?? 335, and authorities there cited. It is readily conceded, that it is a general principle of the common law, which equity follows, that interest on rents could not be given. The reasons alleged for the rule are, that rent is profit, and interest is charging profit on profit; and more particularly, that the landlord can distrain, and ought not to be allowed to delay so speedy a remedy until the interest accumulates. Whether these reasons are sufficient to sustain the rule, we need not now enquire; for the principle has received such repeated adjudications, that it is now sufficient to say, lex ita scripta est. We still approve of the decision rendered in the case of Breckinridge v. Brooks, and have no doubt that it is applicable to cases of rent due, as that was. Indeed, it has been applied to actions of debt for rent, where the sum was liquidated between the parties by the reservation of the lease or other instrument of writing. See Newton v. Wilson, 3 Hen. and Mun. 470. If this case was to be tested exclusively by the rules of the common law, notwithstanding the existence of a written article of agreement between the parties, liquidating the sum and engaging its payment, we should hesitate to allow the interest on rent. (9) At common law, interest can not be recovered on a demand for rent. Ita lex scripta est--Argu. *6 (10.) But the will of the legislature rules this question. It will be seen, by pursuing the numerous cases?? cited in the elaborate cases of Newton v. Wilson, that?? where rent is due on a bond or penal bill, and the judgment is entered for the penalty, interest is allowed?? and the case of bonds is an exception to the genera?? rule; and by examining the act of assembly regulating?? interest, 2 Dig. L. K. 675, it will be found that the legis?? lature has raised this article of agreement to the grad?? of a bond or penal bill, with regard to interest, and therefore this case must be decided as if the rent was due by bond. The words of the statute are, "all debts founded on any specialty, bill or note in writing, ascertaining the demand, shall carry interest in the same manner as debts due on a bond or bill with a penalty, under seal." Here, all debts liquidated by writing, are included; and specialties, that is, notes sealed without penalty, and bills or notes not sealed, are raised to the dignity of bonds, in the demand of interest, whether for rent or not. Certainly, then, this article carries interest on the rent, and the same answer may be given to the one hundred and fifty dollars due for liquors and slave-hire. That demand is liquidated by the same instrument, and of course must bear interest also, and the court did not err in allowing interest. (10) But where the demand for rent is secured by specialty, the statute gives interest. (11.) But this demand was extended by furnishing articles fifty dollars further, and for this also the court gave a decree, which is urged to be erroneous. It will be readily conceded, according to the principles before stated, that the court ought not to have given a decree and execution for this sum. But whether it is to be tacked to the mortgage, and made to operate as a lien upon the slave, is a different question. One objection to its being so allowed, arises from the words of the article of agreement and mortgage, which express that the articles furnished were not to exceed one hundred and fifty dollars. If these expressions were to be construed as limiting the extent of the lien created by the mortgage, they would perhaps be decisive of the controversy; but the more appropriate meaning is, that they were intended to limit the obligation of the complainant, and to exempt him from going any further than one hundred and fifty dollars. Taken in this sense, they leave the excess to be disposed of according to the principles and rules of equity; and the question is, whether, by those rules, this excess can be allowed. (11) When advances are made by the mortgagee in continuation of those provided for in the mortgage they are presumed prima facie to be made on its faith, and if no other incumbrancer re??ts it, will be tacked to it. Let it be recollected, that these articles were furnished by a continuation of the supplies provided for by the mortgage, until the stipulated amount was exceeded. This furnishes a fair presumption, which must stand until contradicted, that this excess was advanced on the credit of the mortgage, and must be so taken. This, also, is a controversy exclusively between the parties to the mortgage, and no other incumbrancer is before the court, contesting the annexing of this to the mortgage. Under such circumstances, we conceive that this sum may be properly attached, and made a further lien on the slave, even though the mortgagee is a complainant seeking to foreclose, and not a defendant to a bill to redeem, in which attitude, tacking such demands may be more favored. *7 (12.) The doctrine of tacking, in such cases, was well established in the English chancery, in the anterevolutionary cases, as will be seen by consulting 1 Vern. 49, 335, Equity Cases Abr. 324, Amb. 685, Pow. on Mort. 397-8. In one case, Amb. 686, a man who held a mortgage, married a woman who held a bond on the mortgagor, and after her death administered on her estate, and was allowed, on a bill to foreclose, to tack the bond so gotten by his wife, to his mortgage, against the heir at law of the mortgagor. (12) The British doctrine of tacking to mortgages, prior to the revolution. (13.) This doctrine of tacking, according to Powell, has been much shaken since, on the authority of postrevolutionary cases, which he cites, and is not allowed to prevail in any case, even between the parties themselves, to the original transaction; but may be allowed in controversies between the mortgagee and heir at law of the mortgagor, and this to prevent circuity of action, because, as the heir was bound by the bond of his ancestor, and the lands descended and embraced by the mortgage were assets in the hands of the heir, liable to pay the bond debt, they might thus be subjected at once. Why this reason is not equally strong for tacking, in a controversy between the mortgagee and mortgagor, when all the estate of the latter, in this country, is a fund for the payment of debts, more fully than real assets can be in the hands of the heir in England, and why circuity of action would not be as readily prevented by tacking, before as after the death of the mortgagor, we leave to casuists to determine. (13) The same, after the revolution. (14.) To this last doctrine of Powell, borrowed from the modern decisions of the English chancery, we have not only the ante-revolutionary cases before cited, with many others opposed, but also the case of  Shirras, &c. v. Craig, &c. 7 Cranch 34, in the supreme court of the Union, where, on a bill to foreclose a mortgage, expressing on its face the security of a certain sum the?? due, and in a contest with subsequent purchasers, the?? complainant was allowed, not only the original demand, but also those contracted afterwards, either on account of moneys advanced or liabilities incurred prior to their receiving actual notice of the defendant's title. We have also the opinion of the late enlightened chancellor of New York, who, in the case of James v. Johnson, &c. 6 John. Chan. Rep. 429, has said, that "in many cases, a subject pledged for a debt may be considered as a security for further loans, and I see no possible objection to it, if no intervening right exists, to prevent the justness of the application of the rule. We are to presume that further debts were created, or advances made, on the credit of the original security. It is only where the rights of third persons are prejudiced by the want of notice, &c. that the extension of the security is prevented." (14) The American decisions on the right of ??he mortgagee to tack claims to the lien. *8 (15.) These authorities shake, if they do not over turn the last recited doctrine of Powell. We would not be understood as saying they are sufficient to authorize a tacking, where there is any proof or circumstances tending to destroy the presumption that subsequent advancements were made on the credit of the former pledge; nor need we now say, that the doctrine ought to be carried to the broad extent warranted by these cases. It is sufficient for the present, that they fully justify the tacking of the fifty dollars to the mortgage, under the circumstances of this case. That sum must be taken as due on the credit of the bill taken as confessed. (15) The tacking or not, depends on the intent of the parties. (16.) One other point is seriously insisted upon in the assignment of errors and in the argument. It is urged, that as the slave was taken by the sheriff, under the original order to hire her out until the end of the next February term, her hire ought to have been ascertained and credited on the mortgage demand. What became of the slave after the sheriff received her, does not appear from the record; and more hire can not be presumed, than to the extent of the order. As this was not given to the complainant, it belonged to the defendants, and the court improvidently left it, as it did the proceeds of the sale, undisposed of, which was incorrect. Suffice it to sav, that on the return of the cause, before rendering a final decree in pursuance of this opinion, it will be proper for that court to ascertain, by a commissioner, where the slave has been during the controversy, and the amount of hire made, and to dispose of it, by its decree, in satisfaction of so much of the complainant's demand. (16) The proceeds of the hire of a mortgaged slave hired out by order of the chancellor, pending a bill to subject the slave to sale, should be applied in payment of so much of the demand. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that such decree and proceedings may be had therein, as shall conform to this opinion. Haggin, Hickey, &c., for plaintiffs; Barry and Humphreys, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Downing v. Palmateer 1 T.B.Mon. 64, 17 Ky. 64, 1824 WL 1485 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
