(Cite as: 4 Litt. 125,  14 Ky. 125 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1233 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Fitzgerald v. Peck. Oct. 13, 1823. *1 FROM THE MASON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. ADAM BEATTY SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Usury 398 k 22 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(A) Nature and Validity 398k21 Bills, Notes, and Other Instruments for Payment of  Money 398k22 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The assignor (payee) of a note, a judgment on the note for the assignee against the maker having been enjoined for failure of consideration moving from the payee, believing himself liable to the assignee for the face value of the notes, instead of only for the actual consideration paid him by the assignee, who purchased at a discount, voluntarily paid part, and gave his note for the balance of the note, with interest and 10 per cent. damages on the face value of the note, to which the assignee would have been entitled, had the injunction been dissolved, as it would have been, but for the fault of the assignor. Held, that the assignor's note was not usurious. Usury 398 k 26 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(A) Nature and Validity 398k21 Bills, Notes, and Other Instruments for Payment of  Money 398k26 k. Discounts. Most Cited  Cases It is not usurious to sell or buy a negotiable paper, founded on a legal consideration, for less than its nominal value. Usury 398 k 42 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(A) Nature and Validity 398k42 k. Rate and Amount of Interest in General. Most Cited  Cases Where the assignor takes up (by giving his own obligation therefor) notes which have been sued on and enjoined on grounds of equity against him, an agreement by him to pay 10 per cent. on the amount to the assignee is not usurious, because, had the injunction been dissolved, the law would have given it to the assignee. Contracts 95 k 259 95 Contracts 95IV Rescission and Abandonment 95k257 Grounds for Rescission by Party 95k259 k. Invalidity of Contract. Most Cited  Cases Where a party, from an error of his counsel, bound himself beyond his legal liability, it was held that he might have relief in equity. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Elijah Thornberry bought, or agreed to buy of William Peck, a lot or lots in Williamsburg, and for the price executed his three notes of one hundred dollars each, payable at different and distant days. One of these notes Peck sold and assigned to James Fitzgerald, and the remaining two he sold and assigned to Thomas Harrison, who afterwards sold and assigned them to said Fitzgerald, whereby he became proprietor of all three. After they became due, Fitzgerald sued Thornberry, and obtained judgments at law, which were enjoined by Thornberry, on the ground that their consideration had failed, as Peck was unable to make a title to the lots. This injunction was perpetuated, and the contract between Peck and Thornberry set aside, and Fitzgerald thereupon became entitled to his recourse on Peck, for what he had paid for one of the notes, and against Harrison, for what he had paid for the remaining two. Peck, supposing himself ultimately liable for all of them, placed himself in the shoes of Harrison, and agreed to pay for the whole of them, and paid two hundred dollars as part, and the residue which was to be paid, was settled between the counsel of the parties, and Peck, in the absence of Fitzgerald, left with his own counsel his note, with security, made according to the calculation, and his counsel handed it to the counsel of Fitzgerald, and he to Fitzgerald himself. This note was for $206 7. When it became due, Fitzgerald brought his action and recovered judgment thereon. To be relieved against this judgment, this bill is filed, alleging that the settlement was wrong, and the sum for which this last note was given, was too high; that Fitzgerald paid for the note assigned directly from Peck to him, only sixty dollars, and for both the notes assigned by Harrison, only one hundred and fifteen dollars; but that in the settlement the amount which each note demanded on its face, with its interest, was taken, and the costs of the three suits at law, and one in chancery, were included, and also ten per centum damages on the whole three, because that was the sum to which Fitzgerald would have been entitled, if the injunction of Thornberry had been dissolved, instead of being made perpetual. *2 The sale of notes for less than their nominal amount, is not usury unless that mode of dealing is resorted to as a stratagem to avoid the acts against usury. Where the assignor takes up (by giving his own obligation therefor) notes which have been sued on and enjoined on grounds of equity against him, (the assignor), a?? agreement by the assignor to pay 10 per cent. to the assignee, on the amount, does not render the contract usurious; because, had the injunction been dissolved, the law would have given it to the assignee. If a man, by the misapprehension of his counsel as to his legal liability, has bound himself further than he was legally liable, and there is no reason to believe that he intended his obligation should extend beyond his legal liability, he is relievable in equity. This statement is not substantially controverted in the answer, at least there is an admission that the sums for which the bill alleged the notes were sold, were not erroneously stated; but it is contended, that the settlement and calculation were made by Peck's attorney in the absence of Fitzgerald, and that the matter was done by Peck, out of a disposition to act liberally, as Fitzgerald had been long kept out of his money, and had had costs to pay, and considerable personal trouble with the different controversies; that this was all done by Peck with his eyes open, and that there is no usury in the transaction. No evidence was taken, and the court below only allowed the sums which had been actually paid by Fitzgerald for the notes, and the costs, and perpetuated the injunction for the residue; to reverse which decree Fitzgerald has prosecuted this writ of error. We perceive no ground of relief to Peck, on account of any usury in purchasing the notes. The purchase of the notes by him for less than their nominal amount, appears to have been bona fide, and not any device to avoid the statute against usury; and in such case it has been often decided that the transaction is not usurious. No law against usury prohibits the purchase of notes or other securities, for less than their real, or nominal amount, more than the purchase of any other commodity at a low rate, unless such sale is resorted to as a stratagem to evade the force of the act. Nor does the ten per centum included in the settlement, appear to have been usurious. It does not seem to have been inserted for the purpose of obtaining forbearance, nor does any forbearance appear to have been given on that account. It must have been inserted as a substitute for what Fitzgerald would have gained, had he succeeded against Thornberry, the obligor in the notes. As the law gives that as a compensation to a successful defendant in an injunction, it seems to have been deemed not unreasonable, to allow that to Fitzgerald, although unsuccessful, because he had been let into that unsuccessful controversy by the act of Peck, who had sold notes that equity would not allow his vendee to recover. *3 Nor do we conceive that the success of Peck on the score of fraud, is more certain. He does not charge in the bill, that he was led into executing his note for so large an amount, by any fraud or address of Fitzgerald. Indeed, to take the bill and answer together, it seems pretty evident that Fitzgerald was not present, but that the calculation was made and agreed upon by the counsel of the parties, and the note executed by Peck in the absence of Fitzgerald. It is, however, clear, that Peck has given his note for more than he was legally liable. For that, he who recovers on an assignment against his assignor, can only obtain the amount which he absolutely paid, is, as a general rule, well settled. But the question is, how can he be relieved? If he has done this voluntarily, with his eyes open, we perceive no principle of equity which will relieve him; for equity will not, in general, relieve against a judgment on a voluntary bond, without some other ground, than that it was given without an adequate consideration. If Peck, then, can be relieved upon any ground, it must be that which the court below has assumed; that is, the ground of a mistake as to what he was really bound to pay. On this ground, his case is not clear of difficulty; because the allegations of his bill are scarcely sufficient on this point. From one part of it, however, we conceive we can gather enough to support the claim. He alleges, that "supposing he was legally bound to pay it, he passed his note" for the amount. The answer insists, that as Peck's own counsel had the calculation to make, and he had time enough to consider of it, before he executed his note, that he must have understood it; but it does not allege that this matter was made, at the time, the subject of conversation, or that the real legal liability of the parties was then understood; and the presumption is violent indeed, that Peck would have executed his note for no more than he was bound for in law, had he understood his legal liability; and the truth seems to be here, that the error was made by counsel, in whose legal skill Peck might reasonably place confidence. It has been settled by this court, that even for mistakes in law, relief may be granted in some cases. The same principle may apply to, and govern this case. It has, however, been contended, that Peck, in this instance, ought not to be relieved, because it was a fraud in him to set notes in circulation, which could not be recovered. If he had committed a fraud in doing so, it might be an impediment to the relief he is seeking; but as he might have supposed the notes recoverable, and have sold them very innocently, and afterwards, through some casualty, beyond his control, have become unable to make the title of the lots, for which they were given, it was incumbent on the opposite side to have alleged and proved the fraud, which he has not done. It is also contended, that if relief is to be given, the court below has extended it too far, in several respects, and particularly with regard to the two notes sold by Harrison to Fitzgerald; and that as Peck was bound to Harrison for more, Fitzgerald ought to have recovered it from Peck. Whether Peck is bound to account to Harrison for the difference between the price for which he sold to Harrison, and that for which Harrison sold to Fitzgerald, as he seems to suppose in his bill, is a question we need not now decide, as Harrison is not before the court. But we think with the court below on this point, that Peck agreed to assume the liabilities of Harrison, and can not be presumed, in the absence of any express agreement to the contrary, to have intended to extend his assumption any further than what Harrison was bound. *4 We have examined the details of the decree of the court below in other respects, and discover that court has allowed to Fitzgerald the amount paid by him, both to Harrison and Peck, with the interest on each, and the costs of three suits at law, and all the costs claimed to be expended in the chancery suit, Thornberry against Fitzgerald, which was an attorney's fee; and after deducting these sums, has dissolved the injunction for the residue, with interest from the date of the note. This, we conceive, was all that the plaintiff in error is entitled to. Upon the whole case, the decree must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Fitzgerald v. Peck 4 Litt. 125, 14 Ky. 125, 1823 WL 1233 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
