(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 47,  19 Ky. 47 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1188 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Oldham v. Woods. Nov. 15, 1825. *1 Forfeiture. Specific Performance. Injunction. Jurisdiction. ERROR TO THE KNOX CIRCUIT; BENJAMIN EVE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 405 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k405 k. Right to Relief in General. Most Cited  Cases Equity will not relieve against a judgment at law recovered on a bond conditioned for the conveyance of land, where no damage has been occasioned, but a lapse of time only, if the judgment has been fairly obtained, by the mere negligence of the defendant. Judgment 228 k 414 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k414 k. Equitable Nature of Grounds for Relief. Most Cited  Cases The fact that an obligee, after having recovered judgment at law on his bond for the conveyance of land, has kept possession of the land, and has leased and offered to sell it, does not render enforcement of the judgment inequitable, so as to justify an injunction against it. Equity 150 k 427(3) 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k427 Conformity to Pleadings, Proofs, and Findings 150k427(3) k. Relief Under Prayer for General Relief. Most  Cited Cases Under the prayer for general relief in a suit to enjoin a judgment at law recovered on a bond conditioned for the conveyance of land, complainant should receive the excess of the rents above the value of the lasting and valuable improvements made by the vendee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. On the 19th day of January, 1819, Woods, the appellee, executed his bond to the appellant, binding himself in a condition to convey to the appellant a tract of land, by the first day of the ensuing May. In the month of September following, the appellant commenced his action at law upon the bond, and in the following year recovered judgment, relying on the breach that the appellee had not conveyed the land. The action at law on the covenant. The appellee then filed this bill with an injunction tendering a conveyance of the land, and praying that the contract may be specifically executed. The court below sustained the bill, and decreed the specific performance of the contract. From which decree this appeal is prayed. Chancery suit and decree of the circuit court. The appellee insists, in his bill, that his title is good and was complete when he sold,--that the appellant has had possession ever since the contract undisturbed,--and that the appellant lulled him into a breach of his contract, by postponing the making of the title, alleging it not to be necessary then, but that it might be done at any time, and that no inconvenience had resulted to the appellant for the want of a conveyance. Allegations of the bill. *2 The appellant admits the possession of the land; his willingness to have received a title at the date it was to have been made, and for some time afterwards, and that no title being made, he ultimately brought his action at law. But he denies any offer of a conveyance, or any lulling of the appellee or deceiving him, or in any way being instrumental in the postponement of a conveyance. He also insists, that the title is doubtful, and the land not included in the patent which was agreed to be conveyed. Answer. There is no proof in the cause that the appellee ever offered a conveyance, or that the appellant in any manner postponed the time or was guilty of deluding the defendant. Proofs. The first question which presents itself is, will the chancellor relieve against a forfeiture of the bond at law, after judgment, when that forfeiture was negligent and voluntary on the part of the complainant, barely because there is no special damage, but a lapse of time only. Cases of relief against judgments at law under any such circumstances are rare. Still, however, the power of the chancellor to interfere, for proper reasons, and relieve against such judgment can not be questioned. Equity may, in a proper case, relieve against a judgment at law, recovered on a bond conditioned for the conveyance of land, where no damage has been occasioned but a lapse of time only. But we venture to assert as a principle, that in no case, where the advantage at law has been fairly obtained, and the chancellor has not before had possession of the cause, ought relief to be given The legal right of action is as strong as an equitable one can be. The holder of the broken covenant has his election, often, to sue at law or in equity. If he chooses the former course, and fairly obtains his judgment, we do not admit the power of the chancellor to take it from him, barely because he did not go into equity. Such a power would bring into the hands of the chancellor, the exclusive jurisdiction of such contracts. The appeal to law, and the right to sue and recover, then would be a shadow only; for the judgment would be perpetually silenced by a decree of the chancellor, and a court of law would barely introduce the subject, for the chancellor to act upon. This certainly ought not be the case, and some peculiar circumstances ought to exist to authorize the chancellor's interposition. The chancellor will relieve in no such case, where the judgment has been fairly obtained at law, by the mere negligence of the party, and afterwards the chancellor is first appealed to. It is insisted in this case, that there is nothing but the lapse of a few months against which the chancellor is to relieve. If that was all equity might not attach so much weight to time merely. But there is more--a vested right at law ascertained by judgment, which was obtained without fraud, in pursuance of the express stipulations of a written contract. The subsequent conduct of the complainant has been relied on by the court below. It is in proof that he offered to sell the land, stating that the appellee would make the title, since judgment, and has leased it for a term of years and since mortgaged it. We might well suppose, as the appellee was struggling in a chancery suit, to compel him to take the title, that he would certainly make one, and that he had better sell, and reach his money that way, and thus end the suit; and this accounts for his proposals to sell. *3 That covenantee, in such case, retained possession after judgment, leased the land for a term of years, and offered to sell it, does not vary the case. As to renting or leasing the land, it is true that by obtaining his judgment, he dissolved the contract, and was bound to restore. But it is equally true that he is entitled to a lien upon the land for his money paid, and can not be compelled to part with that lien till payment, he accounting for the profits; hence his right to lease the land is unquestionable, notwithstanding the contract is virtually set aside. Covenantee, notwithstanding his judgment at law, which dissolves the contract, has his lien on the land, and may keep possession till judgment is satisfied. As to the mortgage, there is no competent evidence of its existence. One witness proves the fact, but no mortgage is filed; nor is the fact stated in the pleadings to apprize the appellant to meet it. We therefore conceive that these circumstances can not aid the jurisdiction of the chancellor; but the appellant is entitled to his judgment at law. To let in proof that covenantee had mortgaged the premises, the fact must be averred in pleading, and then the deed, not parol proof, must be produced. As the complainant below prays general relief, we conceive he is entitled, under the statements of his bill, to the reasonable rents and profits of the premises, during the time the appellant has held them, subject to a deduction for improvements lasting and valuable. This account ought to be taken and continued so long as the appellant holds his lien on the land by possession, until a sale thereof is made, on proper proceedings instituted for that purpose. Rents above the value of the lasting improvements must be accounted for in such case. In this account, if the improvements should exceed the rents, no decree can be rendered in favor of the defendant below for the balance, as he has asked for no such decree. After the excess of rents is ascertained, credit must be given therefor on the judgment at law, and the injunction dissolved for the residue with damages. If there be no excess of rents beyond the lasting and valuable improvements, then the injunction must be dissolved, and the bill dismissed with costs and damages. General prayer for relief sufficient to embrace rents. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, accordant with this opinion. Wickliffe, for appellant; Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1825. Oldham v. Woods 3 T.B.Mon. 47, 19 Ky. 47, 1825 WL 1188 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
