(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 150,  22 Ky. 150 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1654 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Brashear v. Chandler. Oct. 30, 1827. *1 Leases. Covenants. ERROR TO THE BULLITT CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Landlord and Tenant 233 k 1181 233 Landlord and Tenant 233V Enjoyment and Use of Premises 233V(H) Condition of Premises at Termination of Tenancy 233k1181 k. Covenants and agreements as to condition of premises  on termination of tenancy. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 233k160(2)) A covenant to deliver the premises at the expiration of the term in good tenantable repair in every respect binds the covenantor to restore the premises in such tenantable condition, without any reference to the condition in which he received them. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a judgment in an action of covenant, rendered for the defendant below, now defendant in error, tried on the plea of covenants performed. The covenants, in its material parts, reads thus: "The said Levi Brashear hath this day rented to said Chandler, his plantation in Bullitt county, whereon she now lives, for the term of one year from the first day of March, 1822, for the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, current of Kentucky; to be paid to the said Levi Brashear, on or before the first day of January, 1823; and it is further agreed that the said Chandler is to deliver said farm to said Brashear, on the first day of March, 1823, in good tenantable repair in every respect." Covenant sued on. The only breach assigned is, that the defendant, on the day appointed, did not deliver up the premises in good tenantable repair in every respect. Breach assigned. The court below excluded the evidence conducing to show that the premises were not in tenantable repair generally, when delivered up, and confined the plaintiff to proof of damage done, or waste permitted or done within the term of the lease, and left unrepaired. In confining this covenant to the situation of the premises when leased, and applying it only to the reparation of injuries during the term, we conceive that court erred. A covenant in a lease, simply to repair, may be construed to embrace only the repair of injuries accrued during the term. A covenant simply to repair, may be construed to embrace only the making good what may be damaged ad interim; but this is not simply a covenant to repair. By its express stipulation, the intention is manifest, that the farm shall be put into good tenantable repair during the year, whatever its situation might be when rented, and this is part of the compensation for the enjoyment. Had less been intended, the parties could not have been more unfortunate in the choice of the words to express it. It could not mean less than that the buildings should be fit to dwell in with comfort, and the enclosures should be sufficient to protect and secure a crop. There is no reference at all to the situation of the premises at the commencement of the lease. That is not made the standard by which its situation should be measured when restored. But in every respect the premises are to be tenantable. There is not room left for construction limiting the stipulation to the state in which the premises were when the lease was made; but the order of tenantable repair in every respect is the only limit that we can assign, as the measure of this covenant on the part of the lessor. There were other questions made, but as they grew out of the limited construction given by the court below, to the writing sued on, it is unnecessary that we should notice them. *2 A covenant to deliver the premises at the expiration of the term, in good tenantable repair in every respect, binds the covenantor to restore the premises in such tenantable condition, without any reference to the condition in which he received them. The judgment must be reversed, and the verdict be set aside with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Wickliffe, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. Brashear v. Chandler 6 T.B.Mon. 150, 22 Ky. 150, 1827 WL 1654 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
