(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 414,  10 Ky. 414 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1117 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. William Morton v. Long et al. May 31, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Lis Pendens 242 k 24(4) 242 Lis Pendens 242k23 Purchasers Pending Suit 242k24 In General 242k24(4) k. Actions for Recovery of Specific Real or  Personal Property. Most Cited Cases The purchaser from a defendant in a bill to compel a transfer of the legal title, pending the suit, is bound by the decree, and is liable to be dispossessed by writ of assistance, without being brought into the suit or served with a copy of the decree. Abatement and Revival 2 k 71 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k71 k. Nature and Necessity. Most Cited  Cases Equity 150 k 441 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k441 k. Bill to Enforce Decree. Most Cited Cases After the death of the original party to a decree, it is necessary to revive the suit against the representative in order to bind him by such decree. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an action of trespass quare clausum fregit. The defendants pleaded in substance that one of them, to-wit: John Long, had brought his suit in chancery, in the proper court, claiming and praying for the legal title of the close in question from a certain Edward Mitchell who held it, and that after said Edward Mitchell had answered the bill, he died, and the suit was properly revived against Sarah Mitchell, his heir and representative, against whom such proceedings were had, that a decree was finally obtained against said Sarah Mitchell, for the title, possession, and ownership of the close and tenements in the declaration mentioned. That upon said decree a writ of possession issued directed to the sheriff, who was the other defendant, and who, accompanied and directed by his co-defendant Long, entered upon said premises to take possession thereof, and finding the plaintiff in this action then and there in possession, claiming and holding it under the claim of said Edward Mitchell acquired, or pretended to have been acquired long after the commencement and during the pendency of the aforesaid suit in chancery, did, in obedience to the writ and under its authority remove the plaintiff in this action and his goods and chattels to a convenient distance from the close aforesaid, doing him and them as little damage as possible, and according to the command of the writ, delivered the possession to the said defendant Long, which was the same trespass in the declaration alleged and no other; as to the residue of the trespass they pleaded "not guilty." *2 To this plea the plaintiff replied that the said suit in chancery was not after the death of the said Edward Mitchell, legally revived against his heir at law and legal representative, and that Robert Mitchell, was, at the death of said Edward, his only surviving brother and sole heir, and that the said Sarah Mitchell, against whom the suit was revived, was not the heir of the said Edward. To this replication there was a demurrer, and on argument, judgment was rendered for the defendants, to reverse which, this writ of error is prosecuted by the plaintiff below. It is now contended that the plea of the defendants is invalid, because it shews that the sheriff and complainant in chancery, under whose writ the sheriff acted, delivered to the plaintiff in that writ of possession, the possession of a purchaser pendente lite, and that on such, no writ could operate according to the rules of chancery, unless a rule was had against them and they had the opportunity of a hearing in some mode before the writ could affect them. The statute of this state has given to decrees in chancery the effect of judgments at common law, so far as to entitle the party holding the decree to a writ, of habere facias possessionem, and it is contended that the exercise of such writs ought not to be extended beyond the operation of the proceedings, which changed possession before the passage of the act. Admitting this latter position to be correct, it cannot be granted that the pendente lite purchaser ought to be first made a party before the writ could affect him. A purchaser pendente lite is subject to the decree and can not be made a party, nor be served with a copy of the decree. It is a well settled general principle that the purchaser of an estate pendente lite is affected and overreached by the decree. If, before the statute, such a possessor was found upon the soil, it became his duty to perform the decree and surrender the possession to the defendant. It is true a rule was frequently served upon him, and he required to surrender the premises before compulsory measures were adopted. But this service of the rule was likewise necessary against the defendant himself, where he held the possession and had not aliened the land. A copy of the decree was first served or some rule requiring him to perform, before coercion was adopted. We apprehend that it can not now be contended, that after a decree for land against the defendant, since the statute, it would be necessary to serve the decree or any rule before the emanation and service of the writ of possession. The decree is his notice, and he must be subject to the writ without this proceeding. In no better situation can we view him, who has bought and entered during the pendency of the suit. He must be subject to the remedy given by statute without further proceedings in like manner with his alienor. It is evident the decree would bind him and it would be nugatory to require him to be made party for the purpose of contesting, that which he could not contest. We therefore conceive that the plea was substantially good, and that there is no error in the decision of the court below on account of defects in the plea. *3 The replication of the plaintiff below presents a different question. Every part of the plea is confessed by it except the validity of the decree, which is contested, by alleging that the revivor of the chancery suit was not against the true heir at law but against a stranger. Suppose that on the death of Edward Mitchell, Robert became his sole heir as the plea alleges, and that he, Robert, entered upon the estate, and being unapprized of the suit, no revivor having taken place against him and he was ousted by this writ, could he be affected by a revivor and decree against a stranger? It is believed that the plaintiff in this action is entitled to the same standing. Altho' we conceive a writ of habere facias possessionem ought in general to operate upon parties and privies in possession, yet we are unwilling to extend it to strangers and to determine that a plaintiff in such writ has a right to oust every person he shall find on the premises. It is well settled that only parties and privies to a decree are bound by it. It is also necessary to revive a suit against a representative after the death of the original party, in order that such representative may be bound by the decree. If he could be affected without revivor, or by reviving against a stranger, any proceedings to revive would be wholly unnecessary. If he is not bound by the decree it necessarily follows that he is not subject to the execution, and that the person executing the decree upon him must be a trespasser. If Robert Mitchell would not have been subject to the decree in the present case, it follows that the plaintiff in this action could not. He held by acquisition either from Robert or his ancestor Edward. From whichsoever he may have acquired the possession, a decree against Robert, after the death of Edward, (taking the replication as true), was necessary to authorize the disturbance of the possession, and a decree against Sarah Mitchell, who was no heir, could not be obligatory upon either Robert or the plaintiff below--and it was competent for him to shew it in this action. A revivor against a stranger does not affect the rightful heir. The judgment of the circuit court must therefore be reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to overrule the demurrer to the plaintiff's replication unless that the plaintiffs shall tender a valid rejoinder and pray for leave to withdraw the demurrer. Bibb, Talbot, Pope, Haggin for pl'ff, Wickliffe for def't. Ky.App. 1821. Morton v. Long 3 A.K.Marsh. 414, 10 Ky. 414, 1821 WL 1117 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
