(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 185,  19 Ky. 185 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1266 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mitchell, &c v. Maupin. Apr. 17, 1826. *1 Evidence. Deeds of Conveyance. Recitals. Power of Attorney. Construction. Specific Performance. Purchase Money. Answer. Practice. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Principal and Agent 308 k 97 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(A) Powers of Agent 308k95 Express Authority 308k97 k. Construction of Letters or Powers of Attorney.  Most Cited Cases Where a letter of attorney authorized an agent to sell all the land of the principal which the latter had not previously conveyed, the agent may convey what his principal had previously sold, but not conveyed. Appeal and Error 30 k 777 30 Appeal and Error 30XIII Dismissal, Withdrawal, or Abandonment 30k777 k. Dismissal on Consent. Most Cited Cases Defendant having agreed, in consideration of plaintiff's withdrawal of an assignment of error as to the regularity of proceedings, to pay costs, it will be decreed accordingly. Equity 150 k 194 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(B) Plea, Answer, and Disclaimer 150k194 k. Failure to Answer. Most Cited  Cases Facts alleged to be within the defendant's knowledge, and not denied in his answer, must be taken as true. Evidence 157 k 383(7) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k383 Conclusiveness and Effect 157k383(7) k. Private Contracts and Other Writings. Most  Cited Cases Deeds from other persons to one of the parties to a suit are only evidence that such deeds were executed, but are not proof of the facts they recite. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. John Farrow was entitled to a settlement and pre-emption in the present county of Madison, the settlement of which was patented in his own name, and the pre-emption in the name of Robert Benton, to whom he afterwards gave his bond to convey the settlement also. Benton's purchase of Farchaseof F arrow's settlement and pre-emption. Benton then sold the whole to Samuel Mitchell, who sold a small portion thereof, say fifty acres, to John Maupin, the defendant in error, and then executed a letter of attorney to Stephen White, who was coming to this state, authorizing him to sell and convey the whole of it, except such parts as he himself had previously conveyed. Sam'l Mitchell's purchase of Benton. His sale of 50 acres to Maupin, and authority to White to sell the residue. Whilst White was in this country endeavoring to sell the land, Samuel Mitchell sold the whole to Richard Mitchell, his brother, and assigned to him Benton's bond for a conveyance, and the said Richard executed to Samuel, at the same time, a writing, certifying that he had purchased all the land, except what Samuel Mitchell had theretofore sold, and what Stephen White the agent might sell, while in Kentucky, in the month of the next ensuing March. *2 Richard Mitchell's purchase from Sam'l Mitchell. White sold to Maupin, the now defendant, more of said land, part of said settlement, and also part of the pre-emption, which together with what Samuel Mitchell had theretofore sold him, made the whole 181 acres, and executed a deed therefor, as if his principal had the legal estate. This deed bears date on the last day of March, 1809, and was acknowledged in the proper office on the first day of April. White's sale, and conveyance of the whole to Maupin. Richard Mitchell some time afterwards applied to Benton and Farrow, and obtained from them a conveyance of the whole land. Richard Mitchell obtains the legal title. Maupin finding himself not possessed of the legal estate, by virtue of his conveyance from White, the agent, and being in possession of the land, filed his bill against Richard and Samuel Mitchell, or rather the heirs of the latter, Benton and Farrow, to obtain a conveyance, and having made publication against them as non-residents, took a decree by default for a conveyance, which was afterwards executed to him by a commissioner under the order of the court. Maupin's Bill v. Farrow. Benton and the Mitchells, as absent defendants for the title. Some time afterwards, Richard Mitchell appeared and obtained leave to file his answer and contest the decree, according to the provisions of the act of assembly which permits such appearance; and, Richard Mitchell's appearance and answer. In that answer he insists that the sale to Maupin is not early enough to come within the exceptions of the writing which he gave to Samuel Mitchell, and that if it is, Samuel had not paid Benton any thing for the land, and on his application to Benton for the legal estate, Benton refused to convey, unless he, Richard, would pay the purchase money, which he had to do, to the amount of $1,500 or $2,000; of course he claims to be a purchaser from Benton and Farrow de novo, and disclaims holding under Samuel Mitchell, and therefore contends he is not bound to coney to the complainant. On a final hearing the court below confirmed the former decree, and to this decree, this writ of error is prosecuted. Decree of the circuit court. It is alleged in the bill, that Samuel Mitchell had paid Benton. This is denied in the answer. But so far as the answer goes on to state the payment of the money by Richard Mitchell, it is affirmative, and not responsive to the bill, and the proof thereof lies upon Richard Mitchell, and he has adduced no proof, except the two conveyances, which he has produced, the one from Benton for the pre-emption, and the other from Farrow for the settlement, each of which acknowledges a consideration paid of one thousand dollars. Allegations of an answer not responsive to the bill must be proved. Deeds made between the same parties are evidence conclusive in many particulars, and even as to that of consideration. But deeds made by others to one of the parties, and adduced in evidence as these are, to operate on the opposite party, are, if evidence at all, very weak as to the facts they state. They are evidence that such deeds were executed, but they must be feeble evidence as to the facts they recite. Besides when it is recollected that the consideration recited would be the same to Benton, whether it passed from Richard or Samuel, and that the deed from Farrow recites the same consideration, when it is not pretended by him that he paid Farrow anything, but that Farrow received his consideration from Benton, we cannot say that his conveyances establish anything in his favor. *3 Deeds of conveyance prove the facts they recite--between the parties, not others. When deeds from other persons to one of the parties are introduced by him, they only prove that such deeds were executed. We have said that the fact of payment made by Richard Mitchell is affirmative in his answer, and under the circumstances of this case, we conceive it must be so considered. These circumstances are not only sufficient to place on him the burden of proof as to his having paid the consideration; but are sufficient to sustain the affirmative of Maupin that Samuel Mitchell paid the consideration. We allude to the fact that Samuel Mitchell holding the bond of Benton which was assigned to Richard Mitchell, when he bought of Samuel, which is specially charged in the bill--and is a fact which must be within the said Richard's own knowledge, and is not denied by him, and according to previous decisions of this court, such facts not denied in the answer, must be taken as true. Where a fact charged in the bill and not denied in the answer must, if true, be in defendant's knowledge, it must be taken as true. If then there was a bond for the conveyance, and no counter obligation is shown securing the purchase money, according to well settled principles, the bond per se, must be taken as evidence of consideration, and as such must be treated. Add to this that the writing produced executed by Richard Mitchell to Samuel, explicitly acknowledges that Samuel had bought from Benton without hinting a lack of payment of the consideration, and that he, Richard, had purchased of Samuel. Hence we conclude that the presumption is fair that Samuel Mitchell had paid the purchase money, notwithstanding the denial of Richard Mitchell's answer. On the admission of a bond for the conveyance of land, saying nothing of a counter bond for the purchase money, the presumption is, it has been paid. For we cannot admit, as seems to be contended by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, that two witnesses, or one with corroborating circumstances, are necessary to overturn the denial in an answer of a fact which like this may not be in the knowledge of the person denying it. Two witnesses not required to overturn an answer where the fact may not be in defendant's knowledge. This relieves us from the necessity of inquiring into the admissibility of other evidence produced by Maupin, to show that the payment was made by Samuel which has been contested by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error. It is also contended that as part of the 181 acres held by Maupin, was bought by him as appears in the proof, though not named in the bill, of Samuel Mitchell himself, and therefore could not be conveyed by White. By an inspection of White's letter of attorney it will be seen that he was authorized to sell and convey all lands which he himself had not previously conveyed. This is deemed by us sufficient to authorize him to convey,??what his principal had previously sold, but had not conveyed. *4 An attorney empowered to sell and convey all of certain lands not before sold and conveyed, may convey a parcel before sold by principal. The remaining point relied on, worthy of notice, to reverse this decree, is, that this is a bill essentially for a specific performance, and that it was necessary for the complainant to aver in his bill the payment of the purchase money by himself to Samuel Mitchell or his agent for the land he claims and not having done so he cannot succeed; or if he can, that it ought to be on the payment of the balance of the purchase money, which appears by the proof to be due. Bill for the legal title by bargainee against the bargainer who had executed a deed, without having title vs. persons, on whom alienor held obligations, and another who had improperly obtained the conveyance to himself from them, is not a suit for specific performance, and to be governed by its principles. The bill appears to be drawn with an eye directed to the contest with Richard Mitchell, and to draw from him the legal title which he had wrongfully obtained, and does not seem to admit any difficulty between the complainant and Samuel Mitchell, against whom no impropriety is charged, and the bill is silent as to any special charge of payment as to him, except what the deed by the agent shows, which is made part of the bill, and in the usual terms admits a full consideration. It may be admitted that it is necessary in a bill for specific performance to show that the consideration is paid or its payment prevented or rendered unnecessary by the terms of the contract or the acts of the opposite party. It is necessary, in a bill for a specific performance, to shew the consideration paid. This however cannot be termed a bill for specific performance. It is a bill to compel a title from a party who has obtained it wrongfully and has not the merit of standing in the shoes of the person from whom he obtained it. For as to all the land claimed by Maupin, he did not contract for it with Samuel Mitchell, but excepted it out of the contract, and then by the improper use of the conveyance bonds, obtained the legal estate which to him is a mere shell. If Maupin has not paid to Samuel Mitchell, Richard Mitchell has no interest in what is due. It could not be decreed to him. It is a question which must operate in favor of the heirs of Samuel Mitchell who do not contend for it. But when the defendant holding the legal title has obtained it in such manner as not to be entitled to stand in the shoes of vendor he can not raise the question. As they are silent the deed of conveyance held by Maupin, reciting a consideration paid to the agent of their ancestor, is sufficient evidence against them that nothing is due, in the absence of all controversy about this matter in the pleadings; and if this proof is sufficient against them it must consequently silence the right of Richard Mitchell to controvert it, as the want of that payment cannot injure his interest. *5 In such case, the acknowledgment of the consideration in the deed of vendor to complainant, is at least prima facie against him. Upon the whole case, therefore, on the errors now submitted, the decree of the court below must be affirmed. But it has been agreed by the parties that the first error assigned, which reached the regularity of the proceedings, and was supposed to be dangerous to the decree should be withdrawn and not considered by the court, and that for such withdrawal the defendant in error should pay the costs. In pursuance to this agreement the costs must be decreed accordingly. Defendant having agreed in consideration of plaintiff's withdrawal of an assignment of error as to the regularity of the proceedings to pay the costs-- decreed accordingly. Turner, for plaintiff; Caperton, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Mitchell v. Maupin 3 T.B.Mon. 185, 19 Ky. 185, 1826 WL 1266 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
