(Cite as: 4 Litt. 28,  14 Ky. 28 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1227 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bodley, &c. v. Downing, &c. October 8, 1823. *1 FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. WILLIAM WARREN SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 128 161 Execution 161V Levy 161k126 Mode and Sufficiency of Levy 161k128 k. Demand and Selection of Property. Most Cited  Cases By Act 1792, where an owner of lands in different counties files an affidavit and notice, selecting the lands which he wishes taken on execution, plaintiff is not precluded from taking slaves and personal property in the county to which the execution is directed. HAGGIN for plaintiffs; WICKLIFFE for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This was a motion made to compel the clerk of the Fayette circuit to issue executions of fieri facias on two replevin bonds taken on judgments in Fayette, directed to the sheriff of Woodford county. A memorandum was made, first directing the clerk thus to issue them, which the clerk refused to obey. The court then, on motion, directed them to issue as prayed. The security in the bonds resided in Woodford, the principals in the county of Fayette. Executions were first directed to Fayette, but not before one of the defendants had given notice to issue the executions to Greenup county, and had filed an affidavit that he had lands there, on which they might be levied. The plaintiffs in the executions then changed the order, and issued two executions of capias ad satisfaciendum to Fayette. These were afterwards quashed, on motion, by the court; but on what ground, does not appear in this record. There was then a motion to direct the clerk to issue executions of fieri facias to Fayette, which motion was overruled. Then, at a subsequent term, came the motion now the subject of this controversy. Of the defendant's right to direct on what property executions shall be levied, and of sending them to different counties. At common law, a defendant had no such right. Filing an affidavit and giving notice under the act of assembly, only protects the lands of the debtor in the county to which the plaintiff directs his execution; it affords no protection to personal property or slaves. It was admitted, that no executions had yet issued to Greenup, in these cases; and it was insisted, that that was the only county to which the executions could go, and that they must be sent there, and fixed on the lands pointed out, before any other fund could be touched. Before, and for a short period after the separation of this state from the state of Virginia, lands were not subject to sale under a fieri facias, in discharge of judgments. This, however, did not long remain to be the case; for the legislature, in 1792, determined to subject them, and passed an act for that purpose, in which, as well as all subsequent amendatory acts, is the following clause or section, which gives rise to the present controversy: "If the party against whom a judgment shall be entered, have several parcels of land, which lie in one and the same county, he, or his agent, may, by his writing, under his hand, at any time before the day of sale, require the sheriff or officer to whom a writ of fieri facias upon the judgment, shall be directed, to make the debt or damages and costs, of such of the said parcels as the owner or his agent shall think proper; and if the parcels lie in different counties, the clerk shall and may, at the like request in writing, direct the fieri facias to the sheriff or other officer of any county, which the party or his agent, making oath or solemn affirmation that he hath land there, shall particularly mention, at any time before the writ shall be delivered to the officer; and if the debt or damages and costs be made of any other parcel of land, lying in any other county than that mentioned in such written requisition, the sale of such other parcels, or of the lands in such other county, shall be void." *2 After having sold all the personal estate and slaves in the county to which the execution is directed, if affidavit has been filed and notice given of lands in another county, they must be first sold. But it is only between lands and lands that the law gives the defendant a right of election; it does not authorize him to protect his personal estate and slaves, by giving up remote and worthless lands. Under this section, it is contended for the plaintiffs in error, that it is in the power of the defendant in execution to send it to any county, however, remote, to seize and sell portions of land, however small and insignificant, and thereby screen from execution his chattels, slaves, and body, as well as his lands in the county where he resides; or, in other words, that the legislature, by this provision, when they subjected lands, new modelled all our execution system and so altered it, as to make land of any kind, quality or value, a covering, while it lasts, to all other kinds of estate. If this be the case, this provision, which has long existed in our code, and has never been thus construed, until of late, is the most destructive besom to our system of executions, that has ever been introduced; for it is hard to conceive an individual, so artless or indigent, as not to be able to procure a title or claim of some kind, to land of some quality, in many remote places, by which he could keep the plaintiff travelling even for years, until he disposed, in every county, of all these insignificant parcels, before he could touch upon the main fund, on the credit of which he contracted. We should pause long, before we should put such a construction upon any legislative provision, and should examine every reasonable construction besides, before we gave it this. Indeed, such a provision, as suggested at the bar, might be subject to some constitutional objections, which would be hard to obviate. That such was not the intention of the legislature, and that this construction of it can not be adopted, we think, follows from the following considerations: As said before, land was not previously subject to such executions, but could only be extended by an elegit. This was deemed by the legislature an evil, which they intended to remedy. In subjecting lands, it was competent for them to do it partially or entirely, unlimitedly or under restrictions and limitations. Some restrictions and limitations they did impose upon the power given; and it is plainly to be seen, that these restrictions were not intended to preserve and protect all other property, by introducing land into the execution fund, but to save the domicil, and leave home as the last that should be disposed of, when lands were to be sold. For this purpose, the sheriff is directed by the same act, "to make the debt, damages or costs recovered, first of the goods, and chattels, exclusive of slaves; and if there be no such goods and chattels, or not sufficient, found in his bailiwick, then of the slaves; and if there be none, or not sufficient, found in his bailiwick, lastly, of the lands, tenements and hereditaments, in possession, reversion or remainder." Now, it would be contravening the very spirit of this provision, to say, that after the legislature had put goods and chattels in the front rank, slaves in the second, and all lands in the last, yet they placed lands so directly in the road, and inverted the order so far, as to screen the two first, until the lands were expended. *3 It is a princple of the common law, notwithstanding what is now contended for, that the debtor has no election, among or between his distrainable goods or estate, as to which shall be first taken. All are subject, and the execution is an authority to the officer, to take and make the money out of such as he can find, without the direction of the debtor. And although sheriffs, in modern practice, may be in the habit of laying their hands only upon such things as the debtor point out; yet it is evident that he does so at his peril, and subjects himself to damages, if, while doing so, he suffers other things to escape him, out of which the money might be made, and fails to make it of what the debtor points out. We have been able to find no adjudications settling a different rule, and are not aware of any legislative provision which violates this principle of the common law. The nearest that comes to it, is a provision in the act we are now considering, which provides, "that lands shall not be taken by execution for debt or damages, if there be slaves or personal property sufficient to pay the debt or damages, unless the defendant shall request that his land shall be taken instead of his other property; in which case, if he produce to the sheriff levying the execution, sufficient vouchers, or make other proof sufficient to satisfy said sheriff that he has a right to the land so tendered instead of the other property, he shall receive it; and the defendant shall, moreover, show the lands so tendered, to the sheriff, before his other property shall be released from execution. But if the sheriff can find no other property to levy the execution upon, or not sufficient to pay the same, he may levy the execution upon any lands of the debtor, that he can find in his county." In answer to this section, we observe, that it only applies to the sheriff who has the execution and is proceeding with it, and does not compel him to lay it down until the sheriff of another county acts. It is also so cautious in its phraseology, that it supposes other property to be seized, and directs it not to be released, at the election of the debtor, until he has carefully satisfied the sheriff, both of the title and true position of the lands offered. And while it proceeds thus cautiously, it furnishes an argument, although it gives the debtor a species of election between different species of his distrainable estate, that the debtor had not the right before, and shall not have it then, except in cases where the sheriff should be able, beyond a doubt, to make the money, if the election is followed; and it negatives the idea that lands were to be made a cover to other estate, by construction only. There is also a provision in the act of 1821, usually styled the property law, (1 Dig. L. K. 307), which may be supposed to impeach this common law principle. This provides, that "the defendant or owner of said property shall have a right to direct that his slaves, if any, or land, if any, shall first be exposed to sale." Here, the case of a sheriff having executed personal estate, slaves and land, and ready to proceed with the sale, is pointed out. He is directed to sell, first the chattels, next the slaves and lastly the land. But it vests the owner with a right to reverse his order, and sell the land first; and does not give the defendant or owner a right to release chattels or slaves, until the debt is paid. The principle, then, is entire yet, unless it can be made appear that the section in question has destroyed it more fatally than any other provision. *4 Convinced by these considerations, that the legislature only intended to preserve the domicil to the last, by the restrictions, we shall proceed to consider what we deem the real effect of the act in question, after we have stated one other argument, which will be answered by the true construction, and which may be used to favor the construction contended for. It is asked, if, notwithstanding the affidavit and notice, the party may issue his execution to other counties, and sell the personal chattels or slaves of the debtor, before he touches the land pointed out in the notice, how will the debtor protect his land at home, in case of a deficiency of other estate? It is said, the sheriff has the authority, and may sell it without redress; and that the very change in the direction of the execution, before it is delivered to the officer, must necessarily carry with it the right to remove it to another county, lest it might take the land where the other party directed it. To this we answer, that the filing of the notice and affidavit only saves the land in the county to which the plaintiff directs the execution, and not the other estate. The party may still proceed with his execution, as he first directed it, and exhaust the personal chattels and slaves. If land is then the only fund there, he is bound not to touch it, until he has followed the notice, and sold the land pointed out by the debtor. With this, well comport the words of the act which declares, "that if the debt or damages and costs be made of any other parcel of land, lying in any other county than that mentioned in such written requisition, the sale of such other parcel, or of the lands in such other county" (but not of all the goods, chattels and slaves) """"shall be void." Upon the whole, then, we are of opinion that the party may proceed with his execution, to any other county than that pointed out in the notice and affidavit, notwithstanding they have been filed in time, and may proceed to make his demand out of the goods, chattels and slaves of the debtor, and is only restrained, under the penalty of a void sale, from touching the lands where his execution is, until he disposes of those in the notice mentioned; that the legislature, while laying lands liable, only gave the debtor a preference and election in favor of his home, or favorite spot, and authorized him to choose between land and land, and not between his distant and worthless lands and all his chattels and slaves, elsewhere. It follows, then, from this construction, that the plaintiffs were not bound, in this instance, to send the execution to Greenup, and that of course that was unavailing against sending the execution to Woodford. It would seem to follow, that the county of Fayette was the proper county to which they ought to have directed it first, in order that the property of the principals, land excepted, might be first taken. In this, however, they had been defeated. The clerk had refused, and the court had refused to compel him, to issue to that county. To go to Greenup, was what they were not bound to do, and it would be subjecting them to all the evils that have been pointed out. To go to any still different county, might be wholly unavailing; for it is not shown that there was either person or estate elsewhere. The only resort, then, was the county of Woodford, as the door to Fayette was shut by a former decision. It is undoubtedly proper to issue the execution where the debtor resides, and it may be advisable to issue it to the county where the principal is, before the security, who resides in another county, as in this case, is disturbed; but whether the plaintiff is bound to do so, is a question we need not now decide; for the parties in this case had procured a decision shutting the execution from Fayette. And although that decision may not be a bar to resorting ever to the county of Fayette again, yet it can do the defendants below no injustice, to hold them to the decision they have obtained, and to permit the execution to go to Woodford, where the residence of one of them is found. *5 The order of the court below is, therefore, affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Bodley v. Downing 4 Litt. 28, 14 Ky. 28, 1823 WL 1227 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
