(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 166,  19 Ky. 166 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1259 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Chord v. Ford, &c. Apr. 15, 1826. *1 Currency. Money. Action. Errata. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 131 56 Bills and Notes 56II Construction and Operation 56k131 k. Mode and Form of Payment. Most Cited Cases A note payable in "current money of Kentucky" is payable in money;  but "currency," when bank notes are the only currency, does not mean money. Bills and Notes 56 k 131 56 Bills and Notes 56II Construction and Operation 56k131 k. Mode and Form of Payment. Most Cited Cases A note payable "in the current money of the state" is payable in gold or silver coin. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a petition and summons on a note promising to pay seven hundred dollars, "current money of Kentucky." The defendant demurred, and the court sustained the demurrer, and gave judgment against the plaintiff, on the ground that a summons and petition could not be sustained on the note. To reverse this judgment, this writ of error is prosecuted. Promissory note for current money of Kentucky. This court decided, in the case of Chambers v. George, 5 Litt. 385, that a summons and petition could not be sustained on a note promising to pay a number of dollars in the "currency of Kentucky." In that opinion, as printed, the following expressions, in reciting the note, are used, which might have led the court below into this conclusion; "payable in the money of this State." In the expressions in Chambers v. George, 5 "Littell, 335, payable in the money of the State," there is a typographical error; it should read "currency of this State." But in this there is a typographical error, and the expression ought to be, "payable in the currency of this State." This court has also said, in the same case and in others, that bank notes, so lately the only currency of this State, are not money. Currency, when bank notes is the only currency, does not mean money. And, of course, as the remedy by summons and petition, embraced notes or bonds stipulating the payment of money only, it could not embrace such notes. But as bank notes are not money, it also follows that this note can not intend bank notes, but gold or silver. The word "current" preceding the word "money," can not change its meaning, because it is equally applicable to that kind of money made current by act of Congress, which in truth, is the only current money of Kentucky. Current money does not mean the same thing as "currency." But "current money of Kentucky," does mean money. It follows, therefore, that the judgment in this case is erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Wickliffe for plaintiffs; Chinn for defendants. Ky.App. 1826. McChord v. Ford 3 T.B.Mon. 166, 19 Ky. 166, 1826 WL 1259 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
