(Cite as: 4 Litt. 166,  14 Ky. 166 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1248 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Dale v. Pope. Oct. 16, 1823. *1 FROM THE HARDIN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. PAUL I. BOOKER SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 420(7) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k420 Existence of Condition or Contingency 157k420(7) k. Bills and Notes or Indorsement Thereof.  Most Cited Cases In an action on a bill or note absolute in terms, parol evidence is not admissible to show that it was to be paid only on a contingency. Evidence 157 k 423(6) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k423 Nature and Extent of Liability 157k423(6) k. Bills and Notes and Indorsement Thereof.  Most Cited Cases A party brought his bill to be relieved against a judgment at law on a note, alleging that it was agreed between the maker and payee that if a suit was comprised the note, which was given for services to be rendered as an attorney in the suit, should be void, and that the suit was compromised.  Held, that such a parol contract was not admissible to vary the written contract. B. HARDIN for Dale; SHARP and BIBB for Pope. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. To be relieved against a judgment at law obtained against him by John Pope, the plaintiff in error filed his bill, alleging that the note on which judgment was rendered, was given to the defendant as a fee to defend a suit then pending against him in the Woodford circuit court; that Pope agreed on his part to attend to the suit as counsel or attorney at law, and if it went to the appellate court, to appear for him there; that the suit was compromised in the court below, between him and his adversary; that it was expressly agreed by the parties, if the suit was ever compromised, the payment of the note was not to be exacted, but Pope was to have nothing in that event. Where a note is for the absolute and unconditional payment of money, it can not be defeated, either in law or equity, by alleging and proving that it was not to be paid, except on a contingency. The answer denies such agreement, or at least any recollection of it. One witness proved the agreement more strongly, and exceeds, in his testimony, the allegations of the bill. The court below dissolved the injunction and dismissed the bill. To reverse which decree, this writ of error with supersedeas is prosecuted, questioning, by the assignment of errors, the propriety of the decree, on its merits. A note was given, the consideration of which was a fee; it was absolute and unconditional; a bill in chancery alleged that it was agreed, that if the parties compromised the suit, the note should not be paid, and that they did compromise Held, that such allegation of a parol contract, varying the written contract, was inadmissible. *2 Before it is necessary to enquire how far the testimony is sufficient to overturn the answer, it is proper to decide a previous question; that is, how far it is competent for the plaintiff to aver and prove the allegations of his bill, and thereby destroy the effect of the note in question? Here, the stipulation on the part of the plaintiff is reduced to writing. The stipulations of the other party, which were to form the consideration of the note, are not reduced to writing, and it was unquestionably competent for the plaintiff to show, by parol, what that consideration was, and that the whole, or part of it, had failed. But there is an evident distinction between showing what that consideration is, and its failure, and proving other matter, which goes to alter or vary the written stipulations of the plaintiff himself. Here, there is no dispute about the consideration of the note. and there is no doubt, even taking the bill as true, that there was no failure or unwillingness in the defendant, in fulfilling it; but he was precluded from doing so, by the compromise of the suit; and the ground on which the escape of the fulfillment is rested by the plaintiff on his part, is, that the note, in that event, was not to be paid; or, in other words, although his note is absolute on its face, and stipulates payment at all events, yet, at the time it was entered into, there was an additional stipulation, which essentially varied, and even contradicted the terms of the note, that it was only to be paid contingently and eventually. It is a well known rule of law, that no parol testimony can be admitted, to contradict or vary the terms of a written contract; and this rule is the same in equity as at law. To it there are some well founded exceptions, in cases where, through the address, fraud, or mistake of the parties, the written instrument is made to speak different from the contract or is read by one different from the way in which it is written. In such case, a court of equity will interpose and set the contract aside, or give some appropriate relief. But, to admit evidence thus to affect a contract, it is necessary that a foundation should be laid for it by appropriate allegations, that the writing was made, by some improper means, to differ from what was intended. After this is proved, then the party may proceed to show what the contract really was, as made, and to prove it different from what is written. This case does not conform to this rule. There is not the least insinuation that the note was written different from what was intended, or that either stratagem or mistake caused it to differ from the real contract; but the plaintiff rests solely upon the fact, that the agreement was, at the time, to pay so much money upon an uncertain contingency, instead of absolutely, and there is no account given, how the note came to differ from the agreement. The testimony offered, therefore, was incompetent, and the allegations of the bill inadequate to change and essentially vary the terms of the note, in a court of equity. *3 The decree must be affirmed with costs and damages upon the damages given below. Ky.App. 1823. Dale v. Pope 4 Litt. 166, 14 Ky. 166, 1823 WL 1248 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
