(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 164,  10 Ky. 164 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1182 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Joseph Atchley v. William Latham. Dec. 12, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 36 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k31 Trial 179k36 k. Verdict and Findings. Most Cited  Cases Though plaintiff declares in forcible entry and detainer for a house and adjoining land, and recovers for both in the justice court, he may, on trial in the circuit court on defendant's traverse, recover for the house alone;  the jury finding that he was not entitled to recover for the land. Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 38(3) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k38 Judgment 179k38(3) k. Conformity to Pleadings, Proof, and Verdict.  Most Cited Cases If the plaintiff, in a warrant of forcible detainer, prove a right to a part only of the property mentioned in the warrant, he is entitled, as in ejectment, to a recovery pro tanto. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a writ of forcible entry and detainer, for a house, field, and surrounding tract of land. The jury, before the justice of the peace, found the defendant in the warrant guilty, generally, of the force complained of; and he tendered a traverse and removed the cause to the circuit court. On the trial of the traverse in that court, the plaintiff in the warrant proved the defendant in the warrant guilty of the forcible entry and detainer in the house, but failed to shew him guilty of any entry into the field or adjoining land. Whereupon the traverser, defendant in the warrant, moved the court to instruct the jury, that unless they found the defendant in the warrant guilty in toto, as found by the former jury, they must find for the defendant entirely; and that they could not find the inquisition true in part and false in part. This instruction the court accordingly gave; and the propriety of it is the sole question for the decision of this court. On a traverse in a warrant of forcible entry and detainer, plaintiff may recover according to his proof, though it be less than he demands, and less than the jury in the country gave him, and restitution shall go as to the part proved. It cannot be contended that the jury, who tried this cause in the country, had no right to find part of the complaint true and a part false, and that the plaintiff in the warrant was then entitled to recover nothing, because he claimed too much. It is impossible to read the act of assembly, under which these proceedings are had, and not believe that the legislature intended that the issue should be as broad, and the rights of the parties should remain the same in the circuit court, as they were before the justice of the peace. This certainly ought to be the case, unless the manner of making up the issue carries with it some technical imperious rule of common law, which requires the plaintiff in the warrant to shew right to all the claims, and if he does not, that he shall not be allowed to recover that part to which his right is indisputable. We are, however, aware of no such rule. The principle is universal, that the jury shall respond to the facts truly. This they may do by special verdict, stating such facts as they find, and the judgment of law then determines whether the facts found sustain the issue. Or they may find a general verdict, under the decision of the court, on being satisfied that the facts proved do or do not support the issue. Their consciences, however, are never tramelled by any rule, compelling them to say, on their oaths, that although the person holding the affirmative may have supported the issue as to part, that they shall say, against truth, that such fact is not supported. Even in criminal cases, where life or liberty are involved, it never was held necessary that the governments, to sustain the issue of not guilty, should prove the whole charge made to its full extent. If enough is proved to shew a crime of the species charged, although far less in magnitude than the crime charged, the issue is always adjudged to be supported. These principles may well apply to, and govern, this case. The plaintiff in the warrant, we conceive, out of caution, might charge more than he was able to prove, and recover restitution of that which he could prove. The jury below having found too much, might entitle the defendant to a correction of that excess in the circuit court; but it certainly never could entitle him to a finding in his favor, as to the residue, so as to forever bar the recovery of that part, as to which he was indubitably guilty. Such a construction would place the remedy in question under such rigid rules as would frequently bar the plaintiff in the warrant, and cause him, because his proof did not reach the whole complaint, or because the jury before the justice of the peace, over whom he had no control, found inadvertently too much, to loose that to which both in law and conscience he was entitled. *2 The decision of the court below is therefore deemed erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings consistent with this opinion. Wickliffe for plaintiff, Hardin for defendant. Ky.App. 1820. Atchley v. Latham 3 A.K.Marsh. 164, 10 Ky. 164, 1820 WL 1182 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
