(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 91,  17 Ky. 91 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1494 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Read v. Bank of Kentucky. Oct. 12, 1824. *1 ??rotest, Bills of Exchange, Damages, Interests, Costs. ??RROR TO THE WASHINGTON CIRCUIT; WILLIAM L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 395 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k393 Necessity of Demand for Payment and Notice of Nonpayment 56k395 k. Nature of Instrument or Obligation. Most Cited  Cases Protest for nonpayment or nonacceptance of a foreign bill of exchange is necessary to charge the drawer or indorser. Interest 219 k 6 219 Interest 219I Rights and Liabilities in General 219k4 Contracts for Interest 219k6 k. Express Contracts. Most Cited Cases Under act of assembly, 2 Littell & S.Dig. p. 675, providing that "all debts founded on any specialty, bill, or note in writing, ascertaining the demand, shall carry interest in the same manner as debts due on a bond or bill with a penalty, under seal," interest may be allowed against the indorser of a note, though his liability is dependent on nonpayment by the maker, followed by protest. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. This writ of error is sued out to reverse a judg??ment obtained by the bank against the last endorser, an action of debt, on a negotiable note discounted by ??e institution. A demurrer to the declaration was filed and over??led. The only question arising on the demurrer, is, ??at it is not stated in the declaration that the note, ??hen it came to maturity, was legally protested by a ??tary public. It is averred, that the note was duly ??d legally protested by Raphael Lancaster, in the pres??ce of Daniel Thompson and Joseph B. Lancaster, ??ere being then no notary public at the time in the ??ace. It is, therefore, urged that no recovery on such ??otest, can be had against the endorser. The proof corresponded with this allegation, and the ??me question was made on a motion to instruct the ??ry, and also by the pleadings. The answer to the demurrer will, of course, dispose ?? the question in all its different forms. (1.) It is true, that a protest is essential to a recovery ?? a foreign bill of exchange, the rank of which be??ngs to this note, and it is said to enter into the subance of the bill, according to the custom of merchants. (1) A protest is essential to a recovery on foreign bills, or negotiable notes placed in their rank. (2.) No doubt, a notary public was first introduced to ??rnish convenient evidence of the facts contained in ??e protest, to-wit, of the presentment of the bill, a de??and of its contents, and the failure of payment. These ?? rtified by a notary, were allowed to supersede the ??ecessity of other proof, and it at least became to be the ??ghest evidence of these facts known to the law, and is, therefore, required. It is now unnecessary to e??quire into the merits of this evidence, whether it is ?? fact and in nature more certain and infallible, tha?? proof of another character; for the law merchant h?? already placed it on the highest ground. *2 (2) A notary public is the proper person to protest foreign bills of exchange, &c.; but where there is no notary, it may be done by a private person, in presence of two witnesses. But although a protest is essential to a recovery ?? such bill, and a notary is the proper officer to certify ?? yet it does not follow, that if there is no notary, all ?? course on the bill must be lost. It is more agreeab?? to the analogy of our law, that inferior evidence, ?? such case, should be allowed. This inferior eviden?? the law has been careful to select, and not to trust ?? every kind. Hence some substantial person must p?? test the bill, in the presence of two credible witnesse?? who can prove the fact, the person protesting being a?? lowed to draw up and certify the fact, in usual for?? Chitty on Bill, Amer. Edi. 280; Swift 281. This mo?? seems to have been substantially pursued. (3.) It is objected, that the person who protested t?? bill, was a stockholder in the bank at the time of t?? protest, though not at the time of his giving eviden?? We perceive no solid reasons for this objection. T?? disinterested persons who were called upon to atte?? the transaction, are designed by the law to be the w?? nesses to prove the facts, and to them there is no o?? jection, even if the objection against the person prote??ing is tenable. (3) It is no objection where a note discounted and held by the Bank of Kentucky is protested by a private person in presence of witnesses, that such person was a stockholder; it is sufficient that the witnesses were disinterested. (4.) It is further objected, that at the moment t?? note was presented and not paid, it was not noted i?? stantly, but in a few hours afterwards, the protest w?? drawn up and notice sent to the plaintiff in error, a?? some days afterwards, the two witnesses first called u?? on, attested the protest. On these facts, no solid objection to the protest can be founded. The protest w?? drawn up so soon as the ordinary course of busine would permit, or at least in sufficient time to superse?? the necessity of noting the bill at the moment; and ?? to the attestation of the witnesses, we have found ?? authority requiring them to attest the transaction ?? subscribing their names. The protest states, that ?? was done in their presence, and their evidence corr?? sponds with the fact as stated. (4) It is not necessary for the witnesses to a protest by a private person, to subscribe their names. Where the protest is drawn up a few hours a?? ter the demand, the necessity of noting the bill at the moment, is superseded. (5.) The jury rendered their verdict for only one ce?? in damages, and the court rendered judgment for t?? current interest from the date of the note, and this ?? ??signed for error. There is no doubt that interest was ?? coverable on the demand by law, and the criterion or ??r centum is fixed and certain. It has been decided ?? this court, in the case of  Dicken v. Smith, 1 Litt. ?? p. 209, that a court can, ex officio, assess damages ??d lessen or set aside a verdict in covenant for enor??us damages, where the instrument itself pointed out ??certain criterion; and it might be plausible, if not ?? ndly urged, that on the same principle, a court ??ght increase the damages, where, as in this case, a ??tain criterion is given. *3 (5) The court may assess damages and lessen or set aside a verdict in covenant, for enormous damages, where the instrument itself points out a certain criterion; therefore, it may be a court might, in such case, increase the damages--Argu. (6.) But without giving any determinate opinion on ??s point, an act of assembly on the subject of interest, ??Dig. L. K. 675, has settled this question. Its expres??ns are: "All debts founded on any specialty, bill or ??e in writing, ascertaining the demand, shall carry ??erest in the same manner as debts due on a bond or ?? with a penalty, under seal." It may be remarked, ??t the act does not confine itself to writings stipulat??, totidem verbis, the payment of a debt; but includes ??ts funded on a bill or writing, ascertaining the de??nd. And although, in this instance, the undertaking ??he defendant was conditional only, yet the action is ??nded on the writing, and by it the demand is ascer??ed. The same act proceeds to direct the addition ??interest, calculated by the clerk. There is, then, no ??or in the judgment of the court below, allowing ??erest. (6) Endorsements on negotiable notes of the grade of foreign bills, are embraced by the statute concerning interest; therefore, the court may, in an action of debt against such endorsers, give judgment for interest, though nominal damages had been assessed by a jury. (7.) But the court below gave judgment for the costs ??rotest, and this is assigned for error. As the action ??t common law, and not under the statute, and the ??test was made by a private individual, who had no ??t to charge fees for protesting, it was erroneous to ?? this in the judgment, and to that extent it must be ??rected. (7) Private persons have no right to charge for protesting a bill of exchange; therefore, in an action on a bill of exchange so protested, it is erroneous for the court to give judgment for the costs of protest. (8.) The judgment must, therefore, be reversed, and ?? cause be remanded, with directions to enter judg??t in conformity with this opinion; and each party ?? st bear their own costs in this court. (8) Costs. ??aggin and Huston, for plaintiff; Crittenden and ??ckliffe, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Read v. Bank of Kentucky 1 T.B.Mon. 91, 17 Ky. 91, 1824 WL 1494 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 86 END OF DOCUMENT
