(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 260,  10 Ky. 260 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1054 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Hume v. Jonathan Scott et al. Apr. 7, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE BOURBON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Witnesses 410 k 338 410 Witnesses 410IV Credibility and Impeachment 410IV(B) Character and Conduct of Witness 410k338 k. Character and reputation in general. Most Cited  Cases Evidence of general moral character should be admitted to impeach the testimony of a witness. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 61 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak61 k. Nature and functions in general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k23  Depositions) Under the statutes no dedimus or order granting it is now necessary to take a deposition de bene esse. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an action on the case, brought by the appellees against the appellant, to subject him to damages on account of the death of a negro hired or pledged to the appellant, through harsh treatment and neglect. The errors assigned question the decision of that court in refusing to grant a new trial, because the verdict was against law and evidence. The evidence is in part circumstantial, and somewhat contradictory; but without reciting the facts, we concur with the court below in not disturbing the verdict, after a jury had passed upon the facts, whose peculiar province it is to determine the weight of such evidence; and we discover no principle of law which opposes the recovery, if the jury were satisfied. But during the progress of the trial, some questions are made to the admissibility of evidence, which will be noticed in order. The appellants offered as evidence, on the trial, the deposition of a witness who was unable to attend, taken de bene esse, because there had been no order of court or dedimus issued by the clerk, or affidavit made of the materiality of the witness, previous to taking the deposition, the court overruled the objection, and the question is now presented for our decision. No dedimus is now necessary to the taking a deposition de bene esse. The only order of a court, usual in such cases, is, an order granting dedimus potestatem in a court of common law, The practice which appears to have grown up among clerks of making orders granting leave to take such depositions, in a suit at common law, must have arisen from blending the leave granted in chancery suits, after the first commission had expired, with proceedings at common law, where, in strictness, the only order is, that directing the dedimus. Such dedimus is rendered wholly unnecessary as to depositions taken in this state, by the second section of the act of assembly, entitled "an act respecting depositions,"  4 Litt. 337. That section provides, "That a dedimus potestatem, issuing from the court authorizing the taking of such deposition or depositions, shall not be necessary; but all justices of the peace of this commonwealth, in virtue of their office, are hereby invested with full power and authority to take such deposition or depositions, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding." *2 As the dedimus is expressly dispensed with by this act, it follows that the order granting it is wholly unnecessary. The deposition was therefore properly admitted. In the progress of the cause, the appellant's counsel asked one of the witnesses, "what was the general moral character of another witness, who had deposed in favor of the appellees." The opposite counsel objected to the question as improper; and the court sustained the objection, and decided that the proper inquiry was as to the witness's general character with regard to truth and not the general character. The decision was excepted to, and its propriety is now to be considered. The occurrence of this question, has led the court to reconsider the principle recognized by this court, in case of Mobly v. Hamit, 1 Marsh. 591, which appears to accord with the opinion of the court below. That a party litigant has a right to impeach the witness of his adversary by proving his general character bad, is a principle recited in every treatise of evidence, and is disputed by no lawyer. But whether the inquiry shall be confined exclusively to the general character of the witness for veracity or falsehood, or may be extended to the general moral character, is a question on which authorities shed far less light than might be expected. We have therefore had to appeal to reason as the surest guide to conduct us on this point. Every person, conversant with human nature, must be sensible of the kindred nature of the vices to which it is addicted. So true is this, that to ascertain the existence of one vice, of a particular character, is frequently to prove the existence of more at the same time, in the same individual. Add to this, that persons of infamous character may, and do frequently exist, who have formed no character as to their lack of truth; and society may have never had the opportunity of ascertaining that they are false in their words or oaths. At the same time they may be notoriously guilty of acting falsehood in fauds, forgeries, and other crimes, as would leave no doubt of their being capable of speaking and swearing it, especially as they may frequently depose falsehood with greater security against detection, than practice those other vices. In such cases, and with such characters, ought the jury to be precluded from drawing inferences unfavorable to their truth as witnesses, by excluding their general turpitude? By the character of every individual, that is, by the estimation in which he is held in the society or neighborhood, where he is conversant, his word and his oath is estimated. If that is free from imputation, his testimony weighs well. If it is sullied, in the same proportion his word will be doubted. We conceive it perfectly safe, and most conducive to the purpose of justice, to trust the jury with a full knowledge of the standing of a witness, into whose character an inquiry is made. It will not thence follow, that from minor vices, they will draw the conclusion, in every instance, that his oath must be discredited, but only be put on their guard to scrutinize his statements more strictly, while in cases of vile reputation, in other respects, they would be warranted in disbelieving him, though he had never been called so often to the book as to fix upon him the reputation of a liar, when on oath. These, with other reasons which might be given, induces us to depart, in some measure from the decision above quoted, ere it ripens into precedent. Although the question then decided to be proper, on such occasions, to be put to the witness, we still approve; yet we are unwilling to say that it shall be the only admissible inquiry. *3 An enquiry into the general moral character of a witness is proper. The enquiry should not be restricted to the character of the witness as to veracity when on oath. The decision of the court below in excluding an inquiry into the general moral character of the witness, is therefore deemed erroneous, and the judgment must, for this cause, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings accordant with this opinion. Wickliffe, for plaintiff; Talbot, for defendant. Ky.App. 1821. Hume v. Scott 3 A.K.Marsh. 260, 10 Ky. 260, 1821 WL 1054 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
