(Cite as: 4 Litt. 267,  14 Ky. 267 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1275 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Watts and Garraty v. Hunn. Nov. 25, 1823. *1 FROM THE MERCER CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 407(1) 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k407 Existence of or Resort to Other  Remedy 228k407(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A bill asking relief against a judgment alleged that the note on which the judgment was founded was executed as part of the consideration in the purchase of slaves, and alleged facts showing a breach of warranty on the part of the judgment creditors;  but it was not shown that the judgment debtor offered to restore the slaves when he became aware of the fraud, or that he yet wished to part with them, and there was no suggestion of any obstacle to a remedy at law arising from insolvency or the absence of the judgment creditors, nor any apology in the bill of any kind for bringing the case before a court of equity.  Held, that complainant had a plain and well-known remedy at law for the fraud, if any, practiced against him, and the bill must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases A bill in equity will not lie to recover damages for fraud practiced in the sale of slaves, no offer being made to restore the slaves, nor a suggestion made that damages cannot be recovered at law. ROWAN for plaintiffs; FORBES and DAVEISS for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. To be relieved against a judgment at law, Anthony Hunn, the defendant in error, exhibited this bill, alleging that the note on which the judgment was founded, was executed to secure part of the consideration to be paid by him, for a family of slaves, which were known to be somewhat diseased; but the plaintiffs in error had represented the dis??ases with which they were afflicted, to be of a different nature from what they really were; and that their diseases were more inveterate and numerous than represented, when the venders knew the true situation of the slaves; that the slaves had lately before the purchase run away, and had laid out exposed in a cold cave, which had brought on new complaints or had increased the existing ones, which circumstance was known to the defendants, but concealed from him; and that the two parents of the family were far olde, to the knowledge of the defendants, than represented. He prays that damages arising from the injuries may be ascertained and the price be lessened thereby. The court below empannelled a jury who assessed considerable damages, which were discounted against the price, and the injunction perpetuated to that amount. Relief in equity denied, because the remedy at law was adequate and clear. *2 We have not deemed it necessary to travel further into the history of this cause, or go into the matte??'s in issue or relied upon in the answers of the plaintiffs in error, or proofs in the cause; for there is a previous question of jurisdiction, which presents an insupe??able bar to the relief sought. The defendant in error had a plain and well known remedy at law for the fraud, if any, practiced against him, and he has shown no apology in his bill of any kind, for bringing his case bfore a court of equity. He never offered to restore the slaves when he became possessed of the fraud, so as to enable the chancellor to set aside the contract, and he shows no wish to part with them yet. He suggests no obstacle to the remedy at law, arising from the insolvency or absence of the plaintiffs in error, and assumes it for granted, that a court of equity has cognizance of the cause. To prove the contrary, it is not necessary to recite the numerous decisions of this court. Ever since the case of  Hardwick v. Forbes' administratrix, 1 Bibb 212, as well as before, bill after bill has failed, founded on analogous principles; so that it is more strange that such attempts should still be made, thus to add to the jurisdiction of a court of equity, than that such an attempt should fail. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the ??ause be remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1823. Watts v. Hunn 4 Litt. 267, 14 Ky. 267, 1823 WL 1275 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
