(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 164,  17 Ky. 164 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1520 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cates v. Raleigh, Cates v. Loftus. Oct. 21, 1824. *1 Interpleader, Entries, Rescission of Contracts, Assignees Equity Jurisdiction. APPEAL FROM THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT; BENJAMIN SHACK?? LEFORD, JUDGE. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases Evidence that an object called for in an entry, on which the entry depends, might, from circumstances connected with the object called for, have been known, is insufficient to support the entry. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 113 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k106 Right to Rescind 400k113 k. Defect in Quantity or Quality of Land. Most  Cited Cases Where a vendee of land agreed to risk the title as to a small part of the land which the vendor represented might be covered by an adverse claim, and said claim was afterwards successfully asserted, it was held that the sale should not be rescinded on that account, nor the value of it discounted from a note for the purchase money held by an assignee of the vendor, but that the vendee's remedy was on the warranty. Cancellation of Instruments 69 k 56 69 Cancellation of Instruments 69II Proceedings and Relief 69k54 Relief Awarded 69k56 k. Cancellation, Surrender, or Reconveyance. Most Cited  Cases Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 123 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k123 k. Actions for Rescission. Most Cited  Cases A sale of land will not be rescinded for a mistake in the conveyance which the vendor disclosed in his answer and offered to correct. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 175 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(D) Payment of Purchase Money 400k173 Abatement or Deductions 400k175 k. Defect in Title. Most Cited  Cases A vendee of land agreed to risk the title as to a small part of the land, which the vendor represented might be covered by an adverse claim;  and said claim was afterwards successfully asserted. Held, that the value of it should not be discounted from a note for the purchase money held by an assignee of the vendor, but that the vendee's remedy was on the warranty. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. Raleigh, one of the appellees having purchased o?? Cates, one of the appellants, four hundred acres of land?? at the price of twenty-seven hundred dollars, and re??ceived a deed for the same, filed this bill, enjoining the balance of the purchase money, in the hands of Cates?? remote assignee, and praying that Cates might be com??pelled to quiet and settle the claims which interfer?? with the land, or that the contract may be rescinde?? and set aside. *2 He charges that Cates represented the land to b?? safe and free from dispute, when he knew that ther?? were other claims, which were concealed. This is denied by the answer, and it seems eviden?? that Cates dealt fairly, and told of all the claims h?? knew. The interfering claims which he represents to exis?? on the land, are, one in the name of George Loftus, in??terfering with his purchase largely upwards of two hun??dred acres; also, a claim of two hundred acres, locate?? for the Barren Seminary; and finally, that there i?? twenty-one acres of land, contained in his conveyanc?? from Cates, which were not included in Cates' paten?? and to which he had no title. Cates finding that Loftus' claim did cover a proportion of the land, made Loftus a party to his answer, and offered to interplead with him, to try the merits of Loftus' claim, which offer was accepted. On the trial, the court below decided the claim of Loftus to be good for all the land which it covered, and decreed that Cates should convey his title to Loftus, after receiving it back from Raleigh; that the claim of Cates was inferior to the Barren Seminary, which interfered; and for these reasons, and because Cates had no title to twenty-one acres, the injunction was made perpetual, the contract between Cates and Raleigh was set aside, and Cates decreed to repay the purchase money with interest, and account for improvements. From this decree, Cates has appealed. The first question presented, is, the validity of the location of Loftus, as his patent is posterior in date to the patents held by Cates. It is as follows: "Christian County Court, May the 14th, 1804. No. 1,923. Squire Larue is entitled to 400 acres of land, by virtue of his having settled the same agreeable to an act of assembly, and located as follows, towit: Squire Larue locates and enters 400 acres of land in Christian county, on the waters of the Sinking Fork of Little river, beginning on a white oak, in John Harges' line, marked S. L. and running on both sides of a large flat hollow, for quantity, as far as the law will allow, not to interfere with George Brown's survey." The location of John Harges, called for in the above claim, is as follows: Christian County Court, June Term, 1802. "No. 606. John Harges is entitled to two hundred acres of land in this county by virtue of his having settled the same agreeable to an act of assembly, and by virtue of his having located the same, as follows, to-wit: Beginning on a post-oak, on a ridge between the Sinking Fork and Muddy Fork, marked J. H., and running southwardly and eastwardly for quantity." The Sinking and Muddy forks of Little river, appear to have been well known, containing a considerable space between them, and being not less than twelve miles long. The large flat hollow, appears also to have been so remarkable and singular in that neighborhood, that it had acquired much notoriety, and all subsequent locators could have known, that in some part of it Larue intended to locate his claim, including part of it. But the hollow is several miles in length, and it is important to know on what part of it the claim is to lie. George Brown had three surveys adjoining each other, near one end of the hollow; and although they were not in his name, yet they bore his name, and were understood to be his, and were notorious as to their situation. Besides, they called to adjoin a survey including the Green Grove?? and that Grove was, beyond question, very notorious. *3 (1.) Still, however, we have not gotten the true position of Larue's claim on the hollow; for it does not call to adjoin Brown, but indicates that it may possibly reach him in its extension, as far as the law will allow. Of this, however, it indicates a doubt, and may run its distance on the hollow and fall far short of reaching him. Of course, we must go back to Harges' location, the foundation of Larue, and try if we can there get him a starting point. It is evident, if we fail in this that the entry must fail. (1) Call "to run on both sides of a large, flat, hollow for quantity, as far as the law will allow, not to interfere with a survey named, is not a call to adjoin the survey, and will not, of itself, give the claim its position. (2.) To look to the description in Harges' entry, is useless. It is a post-oak with letters, on a ridge, in a large region of country, where were probably many ridges, and certainly many post-oaks. If this claim can be found, it must be by information existing dehors the entry itself. The notoriety of the claim must be proved, and in this there is a failure. A solitary individual has found and shown it to the surveyor, when these surveys were originally made, and also at making the plats for the trial of this suit. (2) To support a call for a marked tree in the line of another claim, it is necessary to show its location was valid, or to prove its notoriety; that it was known to a single individual, is not sufficient. (3.) It is indeed shown, that there were race-paths in this hollow, at which there were frequent convocations of people, and that this tree stood a few hundred yards from the end of these paths, and that a road or trace that led from the paths, passed near the tree. These circumstances might have furnished the means of knowing it; yet still it remained unknown, and there is no proof that it was known. (3) Evidence of circumstances from which it could be inferred, an artificial object called for in an entry might have been known, does not supply the necessity of proof that it was in fact known. Indeed, the proof is somewhat contradictory as to the date when the trees, or one of them in these two entries, were marked, some stating it to have been done before the locations, and others at the making the survey. The tree also called for in Larue's entry, and Harges' line, on which it was to stand, remained equally obscure. For these reasons, this claim of Larue, now held by Loftus, must fail, and the decree of the court below which sustained it and decreed to Loftus the land, is wholly erroneous. (4.) It is evident, that the destruction of this claim removes a weighty incubus from this contract. It is pretty evident, although Cates had heard of this claim before he sold to Raleigh, yet he was ignorant of its true position; and although it is now ascertained to interfere with the purchase, yet it is as totally harmless, as if it had been avoided. (4) Representations that the land sold does not interfere with an adverse claim, made under mistake, which it appears on interpleader, does interfere, but is invalid, does not affect the sale. *4 (5.) The next objection to the contract, is the interference of the Barren Seminary. The whole of this, in two small pieces, is only thirteen acres and one-half with the purchase of Raleigh, not including his improvements, his water or timber, to any serious extent; and from the circumstances proved with regard to this interference, it can be of no aid, either taken by itself or conjoined with other facts, to the complainant below, in enabling him to vacate his contract. (5) That, of a tract of 400 acres, 13 1-2 not important to the residue, after sale is discovered to be covered by a superior claim, is no cause for vacating the contract. (6.) When surveying the land to be sold, prior to any writings between the parties, Cates, at the first approach towards this claim, in running one of the lines, stopped the surveyor, and apprises Raleigh and the party that they were approaching or going into a Seminary claim, which must lie there, but the precise position of which he did not know, and expressed his intention to keep clear of it, and sell no disputed land. Raleigh insisted upon the surveyor continuing the line, and assured Cates he should never blame him, and that he was willing to risk it, as he knew Cates would always be able to restore him the money if he lost it. To satisfy Raleigh, and on being assured that he should not be blamed, and that it should not be made an objection to the contract, Cates permitted the surveys to proceed, and thus this small interference was produced. (6) That part of the land not material to the objects of the purchase, the vendor said he feared was covered by an adverse claim, but included in consequence of the vendee saying, that knowing the vendor's ability to refund, he was willing to risk it, that the sale should not be affected nor the vendor blamed, is afterwards found to have been covered by a superior claim, is neither cause for vacating the contract nor discounting so much against an assignee of a note for the balance of the purchase money. It is true, the entries of Cates on the ground, are not shown to be valid, and the patent of the Seminary claim, now held by Loftus, is the eldest, and, of course, the complaint of Cates against Loftus, to this extent, must be dismissed. Yet this forms no ground for vacating the whole contract. Nor do we suppose that it furnishes a ground for discounting the price of so much, against Cates' assignee, if the contract is not set aside. For the value of this interference, Raleigh must be left, on an eviction, to take his redress on his warranty, unless he can get clear of this contract on some other ground. (7.) The only remaining ground, is, the twenty-one acres not included in Cates' patents, but embraced by Loftus, assignee of Larue. It is rendered very evident, that the including of this piece, was a mistake of both parties. Cates was led into it in the following manner; He had a large body of land contained in numerous small patents, which were supposed to adjoin, and he does not appear to have been acquainted with the boundaries of each. The connection which he had obtained from the surveyor of the county, represented his surveys to adjoin at this point, when it has been ascertained, by an accurate survey since this suit commenced, that there is a small vacuum between two of them, which forms this quantity. On this discovery being made, the complainant below amended his bill, and took it along as a make-weight, and it formed no part of his complaint when he began. *5 (7) It is not sufficient to rescind a sale of 400 acres of land, where both parties believed the vendor had right to all, that it is afterwards discovered the grants under which he claimed, did not cover the whole by 21 acres, which was not important to the purchase. Nor would it be a sufficient ground to resist a specific execution of the contract; for it could be well compensated. If, in feeling for equity against this contract, he has got hold of this, can it relieve him from the contract? The piece is not taken out of the middle of his purchase, but from one of its extremes, distant from his residence, leaving the rest in convenient form. It does not appear to include either wood or water, or to be of any serious injury to the purchaser, and it is, therefore, improbable and unreasonable to suppose, that if known at the date of the contract, it would have prevented it. According then to well settled principles, equity ought not to vacate the contract on this account, especially where it has been executed by a conveyance, and even in executory contracts, it could, at most, only entitle the vendee to compensation. (8.) As the contract can not be set aside on this account, the question arises, can Raleigh be entitled to compensation for the deficiency?? deducted out of the balance of the purchase money due to the assignee of Cates. This piece is included in the deed with warranty, from Cates to Raleigh, and when an eviction takes place as to this piece, the remedy on the warranty at law, is plain and easy. Cates, or his assignee, holds the security for the purchase money, and Raleigh holds a covenant of warranty, on which he relied, and which is fully adequate to redress any injury he may sustain by an eviction. Ought the chancellor, in this case, to interfere, and discount one of these purely legal claims against the other? We conceive not; and Raleigh must be left to his remedy on his warranty. (8) Where the sale of a tract of land conveyed with warranty, can not be rescinded for want of title to small unimportant parts, not known to either party until after conveyance, the chancellor will not give compensation for the deficiency, by an injunction against the vendee's assignee of a note, for the balance of the purchase money; but leave the party to his common law remedy on the warranty. (9.) One other point has been made in argument. A mistake exists in the first deed from Cates to Raleigh, in the seventh and ninth lines, and if their courses are followed, the lines of the survey will never close. On discovering this, Cates executed and tendered to Raleigh another conveyance, correcting the mistake of the first. This deed Raleigh refused to accept, as this suit was then progressing. Cates relates this circumstance in his answer, and it is stated in the proof. (9) In a suit to rescind a sale of land for defect of title to part, the chancellor will not relieve the complainant for a mistake in the defendant's conveyance to him, disclosed the answer, and there offered to be corrected, but of which nothing had been said in the bill; nor for this cause, regard the contract as executory; but will leave the complainant to his new bill, in case the defendant should afterwards refuse to correct the deed. *6 It has been suggested that Raleigh ought not to be considered as holding an executed contract, but as without a conveyance, and, of course, not bound to carry the contract into effect, and as having a right to avoid it on account of mistakes, as if it was executory. To this we reply, that Raleigh has not noticed or relied on this in his bill, or numerous amended bills. He neither seeks to correct this mistake, nor avoid the contract on account of it. We can not, therefore, relieve him of that against which he does not complain, and shall leave him, if Cates hereafter will not correct this matter, to a new bill for that purpose. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, both as to Loftus and Raleigh, and the cause be remanded, that a decree may be entered dissolving the injunction and dismissing the bill of Raleigh with damages and costs, and decreeing Loftus to release to Cates the interference between Larue's claim and the purchase of Raleigh, with costs. Bibb and Crittenden, for appellants; Sharp, attorney-general, for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Cates v. Raleigh 1 T.B.Mon. 164, 17 Ky. 164, 1824 WL 1520 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
