(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 322,  10 Ky. 322 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1078 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. James Birney v. John Hann. Apr. 14, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE MERCER CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Covenant, Action Of 107 k 6 107 Covenant, Action Of 107k6 k. Persons Liable. Most Cited Cases Covenant lies on a warranty against a remote grantor. Covenants 108 k 76 108 Covenants 108II Construction and Operation 108II(D) Covenants Running with the Land 108k72 Release or Discharge from Liability on Real  Covenants 108k76 k. Reconveyance with Similar Covenants. Most  Cited Cases If two grant lands with warranty, and the grantee reconveys to one of the grantors with warranty, the first warranty is not thereby extinguished. Covenants 108 k 107 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k107 k. Conditions Precedent. Most Cited Cases An intervening grantee who has conveyed away the estate, but has satisfied his covenant of warranty, is restored to his right of action against a remote grantor on the warranty. Descent and Distribution 124 k 71(7) 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(A) Nature and Establishment of Rights in General 124k71 Establishment and Determination of Heirship or Right  to Share in Distribution 124k71(7) k. Hearing and Determination. Most Cited  Cases In testimony to prove heirship, the testimony should show the relationship, and leave it to the court to determine whether it constitutes heirship. Evidence 157 k 286 157 Evidence 157VIII Declarations 157VIII(C) As to Pedigree, Birth, and Relationship 157k286 k. Matters of Pedigree Facts in Issue. Most Cited  Cases Hearsay evidence of pedigree should not be admitted where the facts are not ancient, and better evidence can be had. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: John Hann brought his action of covenant in the court below against James Birney, and declared on a deed of conveyance, with general warranty, for a half acre lot of ground in the town of Lancaster, executed by said Birney, in consideration of seven hundred dollars, to Stephen Perkins. And to shew himself entitled to the action, as an assignee of the covenant, he sets out in his declaration a deed of like warranty, executed to him, the plaintiff below, by the said Perkins. He next sets forth a deed with the same warranty to William Fields and James Dunn, made by himself. He then alleges a breach of the warranty by a judgment of eviction against the said Fields and Dunn, by the heirs of Michael Miller, who claimed and held a title paramount to that conveyed by Birney, and existing at the time of Birney's conveyance. To this action Birney appeared, and, among other pleas on which issues were joined, he pleaded one to the following effect, after craving oyer of his own deed declared on: *2 "That prior to, and at the date of, the deed of Stephen and Joseph Perkins, set forth in said plea, the said Stephen and Joseph was indebted to, and bound to pay him, said Birney, the sum of money in said deed mentioned, and in payment of and satisfaction of said demand, they, said Stephen and Joseph, did make and execute to this said then defendant, a deed of conveyance for the lot in the declaration mentioned, which was dated the 8th of March, 1804, of which profert was made, which deed was received as executed by him, said Birney, in satisfaction of said demand against said Stephen and Joseph Perkins. And afterwards, on the 31st of March, 1804, he, said Birney, at the special instance and request of said Stephen and Joseph Perkins, and for the purpose of enabling him, said Joseph, to make a more advantageous disposition of said lot, did reconvey said lot to said Stephen Perkins, by the deed in the declaration mentioned, and received from the said Perkins payment of the debt and demand due by said Perkins to him. And he avers that the said deed was executed by him to said Stephen Perkins for no other cause and consideration than in said plea stated." To this plea the plaintiff below demurred, and the court sustained his demurrer. A verdict and judgment was rendered for him, and the defendant below has prosecuted this writ of error. It is now contended by the assignment of error, that as Hann, by his own shewing, had conveyed away the lot with warranty, before it was evicted, he cannot have his action against Birney, a remote grantor, but the action can only be sustained by the last grantee. It was a general rule in England, that he who had conveyed away the estate, with a covenant of warranty which run with the land, could not sustain a warrantiae chartae; but it might be brought by the last grantee, and each grantee must vouch his warrantor to the end of the chain. This remedy being extinct in this country, it has been decided that an action of covenant lies in its stead against a remote grantor. See Booker's adm'r v. Bell, 3 Bibb, 173, 4 Bibb, 225. An action of covenant lies on a warranty against a remote grantor. But the question, whether an intervening grantee, who had conveyed away the estate, can support the same action against a remote grantor, has never yet been decided. On this question we need not look for any aid from English precedents, where such an action of covenant was not indulged. In this case the plaintiff below has averred that Fields and Dunn, who were evicted from the lot, recovered a judgment against him on his warranty for the value of the land, with interest and costs, which judgment he had fully paid and discharged before the commencement of this suit. If this statement in the declaration can be material to, or aid him in, support of his action, as it is not contradicted by any plea, it must be taken as true, and the plaintiff below is entitled to the benefit of these facts. The question remains, will they affect his case and enable him to support his action? As Hann would have been entitled to the action if he had never conveyed--as he has been subjected to the action, because he had conveyed--as the estate passed by the title has gone into other hands--and his deed to Fields and Dunn can be of no more avail to them, because they have once had the benefit of it, and it is now inoperative against Hann, because it is merged in the judgment against him, and discharged by the payment of that judgment, we see no good reason why Hann should not be adjudged to have the right of action revested in him and be restored to all he had parted with, by his deed, as much so as if Field and Dunn had reconveyed. As the endorser of a commercial instrument, who has paid its contents, can sustain his action against his remote endorser without a reindorsement, because his own endorsement by the act of payment, per se, has become functus officio, as to him, so ought Hann, who has rendered his own deed inoperative further against him, be restored to the situation he was in before it was made, without a reconveyance formally executed. For these reasons we conceive the action may be maintained. *3 An intervening grantee who has conveyed away the estate, but has satisfied his covenant of warranty, is restored to his right of action against a remote grantor on the warranty. The decision of the court on the demurrer to the aforerecited plea of the defendant below, is also made a question by the assignment of error. This involves first the sufficiency of the plea. The question presented by the face of the plea is, was the warranty of Birney extinguished and discharged on his conveying to Stephen Perkins, because Stephen Perkins, together with Joseph, had previously conveyed to him with warranty? We conceive it was not, and that altho' he may be made liable on his deed to Stephen Perkins, yet his remedy against Joseph and Stephen will not be impaired and as he has that remedy against both, so remedy against him on the deed of one of them, ought to remain entire. For it is laid down as a principle, that if two make a feoffment with warranty to one, his heirs and assigns, and feoffee reinfeoff one of the feoffers, in this case the warranty is not gone, or defeated. 5 Bacon, 451, letter N. 1 Co. Inst. 393. If two grant lands with warranty, and the grantee reconveys to one of the grantors with warranty, the first warranty is not thereby extinguished. But as Birney in his pleadings had craved oyer of the deed, and the plaintiff below demurred, it brought the whole record before the court. And although Birney's plea may be insufficient, yet if there be any defect in the declaration, the demurrer of the plaintiff in the action ought to have been overruled. The declaration sets out a deed not only containing a covenant of warranty, but likewise a covenant of seizin, and alleges that Birney, in the deed, stipulated that "he was lawfully seized in fee of, and had a good right to sell and convey the said lot and appurtenances." It likewise alleges a breach of this supposed covenant, by alleging that "he was not lawfully seized in fee of the lot and appurtenances aforesaid and had no good right to sell and convey the same as he did." By an inspection of the deed it will be perceived, that it contains no covenant of seizen, but a covenant to warrant only. This is too wide and substantial a variance from the instrument declared on, to be overlooked on general demurrer. The declaration for this cause is deemed defective, and the decision of the court below, in sustaining the demurrer of the plaintiff in that court, is therefore erroneous. On a general demurrer the whole record is before the court, and the court should look back to the first error. Other questions were made during the progress of the trial, which may again occur, and the most material will be noticed. To shew that the recovery in ejectment against Field and Dunn, was by title paramount, the plaintiff below shewed title from the trustees of Lancaster to Jacob Miller. Next, to prove that the lessors of the plaintiff were his heirs, who had recovered the lot, he introduced a witness, who deposed, that he had resided in the neighborhood of the lessors of the plaintiff in said ejectment, for several years past, and had understood always from the plaintiffs in said ejectment, that they were the heirs of the said Jacob Miller, and that they had been generally reputed as such, and he never heard it contradicted, and had no doubt of the fact; but that he had never seen either of the parents of the plaintiffs in ejectment, they having died long before the witness came to the neighborhood, as he understood. This evidence was objected to as improper to be left to the jury, to prove the heirship of the lessors of the plaintiff in the ejectment. The court overruled the objection, and gave an opinion, that proof of the reputation that they were the heirs of Jacob Miller, was sufficient in this description of action. This decision is likewise questioned by the assignment of error. *4 The evidence by which pedigree may be proved, is an exception to the general rules of evidence. Hearsay is in that case admitted. From the sayings of the parents or members of the family, courts progressed at last to the admission of the general recognition or reputation of the heirship by others. It is admitted that it is difficult to lay down any precise rules on this subject. The kinds of evidence which are calculated to prove the consanguinity or affinity of one person to another, are various, and all may be proper after a lapse of time. But although evidence for this purpose may be an exception to some of the rules of evidence for other purposes, yet it is not an exception to every rule, and ought to be, in some measure, subject to the great cardinal principle, which requires the production of the best evidence the nature of the case admits of, reasonably in the power of the party. In this case the deed to Jacob Miller bore date in 1798, a period beyond which it could not be supposed the memory of many could not extend. It is not shewn that he resided or died in a foreign country, and, for aught that appears, he might have died in the neighborhood of the trial, and his heirs might have been amenable to the process of the court, and they were competent witnesses in this action. Under such circumstances, it may readily be presumed, that some person might have been produced who knew the ancestor personally, and also knew that he recognized his relation to the persons now alleged to be his heirs. Such proof would have certainly been of a higher grade than that adduced. Lapse of time or distance of place, may furnish grounds for greater latitude and admit tradition, reputation and recognition of a neighborhood, or the use of documents, records and inscriptions, which may disclose the connection by blood or marriage to him, from whom a right is claimed. But certainly no reason can exist for resorting to this weak and precarious species of evidence, when greater certainty is attainable. A personal knowledge of facts by a witness is always to be preferred to common fame, and common fame itself, when admitted, is best when it arises from those, who had the means of knowing the relation between the heir and ancestor. Although hearsay and reputation is evidence in proof of pedigree, yet are so only where the fact sought to be established is ancient, and should not be admitted if better evidence can be had. Besides, we do not admire the language in which the proof in the present instance is made. To swear that a man is the heir of another, involves both law and fact. When the relation or connection existing between a decedent and the living claimant, is shewn, the law determines whether the latter is the heir of the former. Hence, the proof ought more properly to be confined to the existing relation, as whether the claimants were children, brothers, &c. The rights vested by the connection, are easily determined by the law. In proof of heirship, the relationship should be shewn, and leave the law to determine the heirship. *5 For these reasons, we deem the decision of the court below on the evidence of heirship, also erroneous. As the cause must be reversed, we can not help suggesting an apparent difference between the names and characters of those alleged in this declaration to have recovered the lot in question, and those who are named as recovering it in the declaration in ejectment. But doubting whether this variance may not have arisen from the errors of the copyist, we have declined any decision upon it, knowing that if the declaration is amended, the plaintiff below can correct this variance if it be one, and thereby avoid future embarrassment, in the progress of the controversy. The judgment must be reversed, the verdict set aside, and the cause remanded for proceedings accordant with this opinion. Bridges for plaintiff, Crittenden for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1821. Birney v. Hann 3 A.K.Marsh. 322, 10 Ky. 322, 1821 WL 1078 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 167 END OF DOCUMENT
