(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 339,  20 Ky. 339 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1430 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Tevis v. Steele. Apr. 9, 1827. *1 Dower. Trusts. Seizin. APPEAL FROM THE SHELBY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Dower and Curtesy 136 k 5 136 Dower and Curtesy 136I In General 136k5 k. Requisites. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 136k7) The widow's claim to dower does not depend on the length of time the title remains in the husband. Dower and Curtesy 136 k 11 136 Dower and Curtesy 136I In General 136k11 k. Estates and Interests Subject. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 136k12(4)) The widow's claim to dower depends on whether the seisin of the husband was beneficial or in trust only. Dower and Curtesy 136 k 44 136 Dower and Curtesy 136II Inchoate Interest 136II(B) Bar, Release, or Forfeiture 136k44 k. Conveyance After Marriage. Most Cited  Cases A. conveyed land to B., who at the same time conveyed it in trust to secure the payment of the debts of A. Held, that the widow of A. was entitled to dower. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Robert G. Luckett was a partner in trade, in the firm of Steele and Luckett, consisting of himself and Adam Steele, and also in the firm of Steele, Hardin & Co., which consisted of himself, said Adam Steele and Henry C. Hardin, and each of these co-partnerships became considerably indebted to other persons. Adam Steele agreed with the said Luckett to assume and pay the creditors, the said Luckett's proportion of these debts, which were ascertained, and to procure his discharge therefrom; and in consideration of this agreement Luckett agreed to convey to Steele a house and lot in Shelbyville, which Steele agreed to convey in trust, to secure these same partnership demands, and also some debts due from Steele in his own right, to other creditors. In pursuance of this agreement, Luckett conveyed the house and lot to Steele, and Steele at the same time conveyed the lot to a trustee for the purpose aforesaid. Conveyance of Luckett to Steele, and of Steele in trust for their creditors. Steele failed, and the creditors secured by this deed, filed their bill in equity, and compelled a sale of the estate. Before that time Steele had departed this life, and his widow, who had not united with him in the deed to the trustee, claimed her dower in the house and lot, which the creditors by their agent contested. Steele dies, the creditors foreclose and sell, and the widow claims dower. But to enhance the sale of the estate, it was agred between the agent and the widow that her dower was of a certain value in money, and that she should receive that sum, if thereafter she could sustain her claim of dower. To try her claim, the parties filed an agreed case, in lieu of pleadings and proof in equity, submitting her claim to dower to the decision of the chancellor, and agreeing, that if the court should be of opinion that she was entitled to dower, the stipulated sum of money should be decreed to her. *2 Case agreed between the widow and creditors. The court decreed in her favour, and the opposite party has appealed. Decree of the circuit court. By the appellants it is said that the execution of the two conveyances, the one from Luckett to Adam Steele, and the other from Steele to the trustee, were acts done in performance of one agreement at the same time, and both acts were component parts of one fufilment of the contract, and as it was the agreement that the title should barely pass through Adam Steele, and the execution of the conveyances were simultaneous, his seizin was too momentary to entitle his widow to dower. In support of this position, 2 Black. Com. 131, 132, 2 Jac. Law Dic. 313, title Dower; 1 Cruise Dig. 142, Stow v. Tift, 15 John. 464, and Halbrook v. Finnie, 4 Mass. Rep. 568, are relied upon. Ground relied on against the dower. On the contrary, it is insisted that the enquiry ought not to rest so much upon previous agreements, that the title should pass on, and not dwell in the husband, or on the length of time it may rest in its passage; but on the beneficial interest secured to the husband by the deed, whether he was a bare trustee, or could take anything in the estate for his individual use. And to support this position sundry English authorities are cited. Grounds for the dower: Between these conflicting opinions of instantaneous seizin, and previous agreements on the one hand, and beneficial seizin on the other, the court can not hesitate to choose the latter, as the most certain and rational principle, applicable to all cases. If by the conveyance, the husband can take any thing, which he can use for his peculiar benefit, it seems necessarily to follow that his wife and family would acquire an interest therein. On the contrary, if he was the mere instrument, the conduit pipe to pass the interest of others, passing through him in an instant as it were uno flatu, it seems as clearly to follow that neither he or his wife could apply any part of it to their own use. Widow's claim to dower depends on whether the seizin of the husband was beneficial, or in trust only, and not on the time the title remained in him. It is true that Blackstone, Jacob and Cruise, do seem to rest the case on the instantaneous seizin of the husband, or whether the title rested but a moment. But the cases used by them to illustrate the principle, are chiefly the conveyance and re-conveyance made use of in fines, where the whole intention of the transaction, by a device in law, is to de feat a limitation, to operate exclusively to the benefit of the first grantor. Besides we well know that although the title may remain not only an instant, but even days and years in a mere trustee, his wife can not thereby acquire a right to dower in the estate, which will be enforced in a court of equity. Hence it appears that these luminaries of the law have laid down the rule, in words taken in their literal sense capable of being construed too broad, for the safety of the real principle which governs such cases--that is, the beneficial seizin of the husband. And Gwillim in his edition of Bacon, 2 vol. 371, title dower, letter C. in a very sensible note cited at bar, has limited the operation of the rule laid down by Blackstone, or shewn that although it is laid down in broad terms its operation is not general, that in some cases it is true, and that no interest would accrue to the wife, while the title was in transitu, in others, owing to the beneficial seizin of the husband, her claim would adhere to the title, however expeditious her husband might be, in using the pen, in passing away, at the same moment, the interest he had just received. On this principle the case of Nash v. Preston, Cro. Charles 190, used at bar, was decided, and it, as was well said in this argument, was a leading case in the English courts, and has since been followed in such a series of cases, that the rule is too well fortified to be now overturned. *3 Authorities on the question of dower examined. It must be admitted that the two cases cited by the appellant's counsel, the one from New York, and the other from Massachusetts, do seem to rest the claim of the widow, or rather the defeat of her claim, not so much on the beneficial interest which the husband acquired by the deed, as on the previous agreement that the title should not rest in him, and the rapidity with which he passed it away. In the first of these cases the court was unanimous. Neither of them are obligatory upon this court, though both from the high standing of the judges by whom they were delivered, are entitled to respect, and so much weight, and that only, as they may bear by shedding light upon the controversy, and sustain their positions by sound reason. But however desirable it may be that the courts of these sister states, bound to us, by a strong, and we trust, indissoluble tie, should harmonize with each other, yet it is well known that their codes are sometimes essentially different. In their municipal concerns one took more, another less of the common law code, derived from Great Britain, and, therefore, the decisions of the courts of one, can not form obligatory precedents upon the courts of another. And while we are not compelled to yield to such authority, unless compelled by our own convictions, we can not do so in this instance, because we are convinced that the opposite principle, is the most sensible, sound and intelligible, and most consistent with the common law at the period which we adopted it as our rule. New York and Massachusetts decisions against the dower not approved. Testing the claim of the widow, in this controversy, by these principles, it is easily decided. Her husband took the title, by an absolute deed, and although he conveyed it away in a moment, yet he not only conveyed it with a right of redemption, which if exercised made it forever his. And was entitled not only to the residue, of the price after the debts were discharged out of its value, but many of these debts were absolutely his own, in which Luckett was not bound. He was bound jointly for Luckett's debts, secured by the deed. By his conveyance from Luckett, he did not acquire an estate to be placed in security for these debts only, but also a fund to secure and satisfy his own debts, with which Luckett had no concern. The conveyance, therefore, to the trustee may be said to be a conveyance in trust, at least in part, for the use of himself. Under such circumstances we have no hesitation in deciding that his widow was entitled to dower. One partner conveyed the land to the other, in consideration of his undertaking to pay the partnership debts, and that he would convey it in trust, for that purpose, which he did, and died, and the creditors foreclosed and sold the land; the widow shall have dower. The decree must, consequently, be affirmed, with costs and damages. Crittenden, for appellant; Mayes, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Tevis v. Steele 4 T.B.Mon. 339, 20 Ky. 339, 1827 WL 1430 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
