(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 76,  22 Ky. 76 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1633 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Tuggle. &c. v. Smith and Todd. Oct. 23, 1827. *1 Coroner. Sheriff. Process. Executions. Statutes. APPEAL FROM THE KNOX CIRCUIT; JOSEPH EVE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 80 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k80 k. Direction to Particular Officer or County. Most Cited Cases If a coroner serve the process on which a judgment is rendered, the execution on the judgment must, by statute, be directed to and served by him, though the cause for directing the original process to him has ceased. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The appellees brought their action and recovered their judgment, having issued the original process to the coroner. The execution issued to the sheriff, and a replevin bond was taken, which the appellants moved to quash, together with the original execution, because it was not directed to the coroner also, and the court overruled the motion and this appeal was prayed. Case stated. The original process might have been issued to the coroner, because the then sheriff or deputy was interested, and the reason for sending the process to the coroner might have ceased when the execution emanated, because the office of sheriff had passed into other hands. We would therefore gladly get over this objection, and could do so if left to the common law on this subject. It did not follow by the common law, that because the mesne process was directed to the coroner, the consequence of the sheriff's interest, the execution on the judgment had to be directed to him likewise. But an act of Assembly passed in 1820, 2 Dig.L.K. 344, has provided that "all executions issued upon a judgment rendered upon process served by the coroner, shall be directed to, and executed by him." It is enacted, that where the mesne process is executed by the coroner, the execution shall be directed to and executed by the coroner. Although we can not see the reason of this statute, it is enough for us that it exists, and that the Legislature have the power to pass it. It is explicit, and admits of no evasion, and is conclusive of this question. The court below seems to have overruled the motion because notice was not given. In a case where the party relied exclusively on errors apparent on the record, according to repeated decisions, no notice was necessary. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded with directions to quash the original execution, bond and subsequent proceedings with costs. Triplett, for appellants; Crittenden, for appellees. Ky.App. 1827. Tuggle v. Smith 6 T.B.Mon. 76, 22 Ky. 76, 1827 WL 1633 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
