(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 561,  22 Ky. 561 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1182 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Graham's Heirs v. Graham. Apr. 8, 1828. *1 Costs. Dower. Partition. Co-tenants. Rents. Improvements. APPEAL FROM THE BULLITT CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 175 162 Executors and Administrators 162V Allowances to Surviving Wife, Husband, or Children 162k175 k. Quarantine or Other Occupation or Use of Property. Most Cited Cases A widow is entitled to enjoy the mansion house and plantation, rent free, until her dower is assigned her. Tenancy in Common 373 k 28(4) 373 Tenancy in Common 373II Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities of Cotenants 373k28 Rents and Profits, and Use and Occupation 373k28(4) k. Extent of Liability on Accounting. Most Cited  Cases One cotenant, who has occupied in severalty, must account to the others for rents on the improvements existing when he entered, but on improvements made by him he shall pay only the balance of the rents, after deducting their price, which shall not be allowed to exceed the rents on the improvements. Dower and Curtesy 136 k 89 136 Dower and Curtesy 136III Rights and Remedies of Surviving Spouse 136k89 k. Actual Admeasurement or Allotment. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 136k90(1)) Where a husband had an equity in lands during his life, which he might have specifically enforced, his widow is entitled to one-third thereof as dower, to be laid off, if practicable, in such convenient form as to bear equally on the shares of the other heirs, otherwise to be assigned in such form as to be again divided after the widow's death. Dower and Curtesy 136 k 104 136 Dower and Curtesy 136III Rights and Remedies of Surviving Spouse 136k104 k. Damages for Detention and Mesne Profits. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 136k107) A widow is entitled to the entire rents and profits of the mansion farm of her deceased husband until the assignment of her dower. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The heirs of Graham claimed by their bill in equity, a conveyance of a tract of land sold to their ancestor by Hornbecke. Bill. Pending this suit the heirs interpleaded with each other in equity, one of them claiming the whole land, as having been purchased for him by the ancestor, and the others with the widow, contending for the whole to be divided, as estate held in coparcenary. The court below ultimately decided in favor of the one who claimed the whole. Bill of interpleader. The controversy between the heirs is one purely of fact, and the claim of the whole by one heir, depends on a bond said to be executed by the ancestor, which is denied to be genuine. Without going into the details of fact, suffice it to say that this supposed bond is produced by the claimant of the whole, and proved by one of the subscribing witnesses, under circumstances which totally forbid the belief that it is genuine, and the whole transaction is one which pays but a poor compliment to human nature. *2 Claim by the one heir of the whole, determined against on the evidence. The decree of the conveyance to one heir must, therefore, be reversed, and the conveyance from Hornbecke be decreed to the whole of the heirs, with costs against Hornbecke; and in the suit for a partition, a decree must be rendered dividing the land according to quantity and quality of the land, at the cost of that heir who has claimed the whole. In this partition some questions arise worthy of notice. Decree. The widow, as her husband had an equity in his lifetime which might have been specifically enforced, will be entitled to dower of one-third of the estate, according to former adjudications, to be laid off, if practicable, in such convenient form as to bear equally on the shares of each heir. If not practicable. then to be assigned in such form as to be again divided after her decease. Mode of assigning dower, making partition between the parceners. The question of rents also occur, as one heir who now claims the whole, has possessed and enjoyed the farm since the decease of the ancestor. It seems that a former suit in equity was decided between the distributees, and the son, Samuel Graham, who now claims the land entire, and who was the administrator of the father. In that suit the rents of the farm were adjusted, and he was made to account for them to the date of the report and settlement made in that suit. Consequently the charge of rents must be now commenced, where that account closed. Rents to be accounted for by the parcener who had claimed and occupied the entire tract after date to which he had been made account for them, as the administrator. These rents must be decreed to the widow, because the farm in question was the mansion of the testator at his death, and by the statute she is entitled to the use thereof till her dower is assigned, which has never been done. Widow is entitled to the rents of the whole mansion farm of her husband, till the assignment of dower. But a question results as to what land rents must be charged upon. Some of it was cleared and fitted for cultivation by the ancestor, and some has been cleared by the son who now claims the whole, and the question is, what rents ought to be charged on this additional land. One co-tenant, occupying in severalty, shall account to the others for rents on the improvements existing when he entered. That rents ought to be charged on the land cleared and improvements made by the ancestor, can not be doubted. But it is insisted by the son, Samuel, that he is entitled to compensation for his improvements, and ought not to pay rents thereon. We are not disposed to award to a parcener, compensation for improvements and ameliorations, so as to make his co-parceners his debtors. But we conceive that he ought to be charged with the rents of such new improvements, from the time they were made, and that this rent may be lessened by the price of improving, so as to sink those rents, if sufficient, if not sufficient, then the balance of rents ought to be charged against the improver. But in no event ought a balance for improving to be charged against the co-heirs. *3 On the improvements made by the co-tenant he shall pay only the balance of the rents, after deducting their price, which price shall not be allowed to exceed the rents on the improvements themselves. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for a decree in conformity with this opinion, and the rules and usages of equity. Denny and Mayes, for appellants; Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1828. Graham's Heirs v. Graham 6 T.B.Mon. 561, 22 Ky. 561, 1828 WL 1182 (Ky.), 17 Am.Dec. 166 END OF DOCUMENT
