(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 261,  19 Ky. 261 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1287 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Humphrey v. Jones. Oct. 3, 1826. *1 Entry. Limitation. Warrant. Dates. Process. Appearance. Evidence. Practice. APPEAL FROM THE HARDIN CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 4 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k4 k. Nature and Elements of Forcible Entry. Most Cited Cases An entry upon unimproved land with the intention of fitting it for cultivation is within the Kentucky statutes against forcible entries. Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 19(2) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k19 Process and Appearance 179k19(2) k. Service and Return. Most Cited  Cases A warrant for forcible entry must be executed within 30 days from its date. Limitation of Actions 241 k 122 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(H) Commencement of Proceeding;  Relation Back 241k122 k. Defects or Irregularities in Process or Service.  Most Cited Cases Where a warrant for forcible entry and detainer is invalid, and the proceeding is sustained by holding the appearance, and the traversing of the finding of the jury, a waiver of the insufficiency, the two years of limitation is computed back from the appearance. Adverse Possession 20 k 42 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(E) Duration and Continuity of Possession 20k42 k. Beginning of Adverse Possession. Most Cited  Cases When an entry is made into unimproved land with the intention of fitting it for cultivation, the act of limitation begins to run from the time of the entry. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement. This is a warrant for a forcible entry and detainer. The jury before the justice of the peace, returned a verdict of guilty against the defendant, who, by a traverse, brought it into the circuit court, where the jury confirmed the former finding, and the defendant in the warrant has brought the case to this court, by an appeal. The warrant is dated March 13, 1820. The execution thereof on the 14th of March, 1823, and returned, and the first inquisition taken on the 17th March, 1823. Dates of the warrant, return and inquisition. The proof was, that Thomas Lewis, by articles of agreement, on the 29th day of September, 1819, sold to the plaintiff in the warrant, 1,000 acres of land by a specified boundary, and the plaintiff in the warrant, made a lease of a little farm on said 1,000 acres, and that the lease extended only to the enclosed land, and the plaintiff in the warrant placed a negro man slave on the said farm with the lessee and under his control, and the slave proceeded to clear and enclose more adjoining land, and continued to do so, the timber having been previously deadened by a person employed by Lewis, before his sale to the plaintiff in the warrant. That in November, 1820, the defendant in the warrant moved to, and settled on, another part of the 1,000 acres, and cleared and enclosed about 35 acres, the enclosure of which was not finished till some time in April, 1821. This improvement did not approach that made by the slave and lessee of the plaintiff in the warrant nearer than one-fourth of a mile, and was in a deadened piece of timber, made by the procurement of Lewis, before his sale to the plaintiff. *2 Evidence. On this evidence, divers instructions were moved by the parties, and some given and some refused. A new trial was moved, but overruled, and the defendant in the warrant excepted, and spread the whole upon record. Verdict; motion for new trial overruled; judgment and exceptions. The defendant moved the court to instruct the jury, that if they believed the defendant took possession of the farm in November, 1820, and then commenced clearing, although he did not finish enclosing the land until April, 1821, the plaintiff was barred, by that provision of the act regulating forcible entries and detainers to two years after the cause of action accrued. The court refused this instruction, and afterwards told the jury, that an occasional chopping on land would not stop the running of the statute, but the statute only commenced running from the time the deadening was enclosed. Instructions. The refusal of the instruction asked, as well as that given, was certainly calculated to embarrass the jury and lead them astray. It was clearly erroneous, after the proof that the defendant had settled on the land, to say, that it gave no cause of action to the plaintiff, or any other who had the possession in fact, or to limit the commencement of the bar to any other period than the entry of the defendant. It was not essential to the cause of action, that an enclosure should be made as the court supposed. And although occasional chopping, as the court expresses it, may not be a possession, yet an actual entry with the intent of clearing and fitting the land for cultivation, is indubitably an entry within the meaning of the statute, and the court erred in fixing any other period. An entry into unimproved land, with an intention to clear and fit it for cultivation, is within the statute against forcible entries. From the time of such entry, the limitation of two years commences; not from the enclosing of the land. The defendant moved for a new trial, which was refused. Date of the warrant years before its return, can not be corrected here by the sheriff's return. The great lapse of time between the date of this warrant and the execution thereof, is a matter of some embarrassment in this cause, and there is some probability that the date was written by mistake 1820 for 1823. We say probability, for there is no certainty, and there is nothing in the proceedings by which we can amend the date, except the return of the officer, and that is not sufficient. The law requires such warrants to be returned in thirty days, and if they are not executed in that time, they confer no authority, and an officer ought not to execute them. Warrant in forcible entry cannot be executed after 30 days from its date. The presumption that the officer would not have executed this, after three years had elapsed since its date, unless its date had been mistaken, is too weak evidence against the date. This warrant must be considered either as a valid warrant from its date in 1820, or wholly invalid. If it is valid, then it is dated before any entry of any kind proved against the defendant, and therefore the plaintiff could not recover, and the verdict ought to have been set aside, and a new trial granted. *3 That an officer, in such case, executed the warrant bearing date three years before, is not sufficient evidence that the date was a mistake. If the warrant is considered invalid, then the proceedings under it can only be sustained by supposing that the defendant, by appearing and answering thereto, and traversing the finding of the jury, has waived its irregularity. If so, then the proceedings can not be said to commence till the appearance of the defendant, and the bar of two years is to be counted back from that period, and then the plaintiff's cause of action, according to the proof, was indubitably barred. Therefore, the instruction above recited, ought to have been given as asked, and no verdict found, according to the proof, ought to have been permitted to stand. Where the warrant is invalid, and the proceedings sustained only by construing defendant's appearing and traversing the finding of the jury into a waiver of the irregularity, the limitation shall be counted back from the appearance. The judgment of the court below must, therefore be reversed with costs, and the verdict set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Darby, for appellant; Hardin, for appellee. Ky.App. 1826. Humphrey v. Jones 3 T.B.Mon. 261, 19 Ky. 261, 1826 WL 1287 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
