(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 161,  17 Ky. 161 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1519 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hawkins' Heirs' v. King's Heirs. Oct. 20, 1824. *1 ??ccupants at Common Law, Rents, Waste, Compensation for Improvements. ??RROR TO THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT; WILLIAM L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 132 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k132 k. Measure of Damages or Profits. Most Cited Cases A bona fide purchaser, entering on land with the knowledge of the holder of the legal title, who does not forbid the entry, and acquiesces in the possession of the purchaser for a long time, is liable for rent only from the commencement of the suit by the owner. Ejectment 142 k 139 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k139 k. Rights of Parties as to Improvements in General. Most Cited Cases A bona fide purchaser, entering on land with the knowledge of the holder of the legal title, who does not forbid the entry, and acquiesces in the possession of the purchaser, is entitled to payment for his improvements in an action of ejectment against him. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. This is a bill in chancery, enjoining a judgment in ??ectment, and praying a conveyance of land. The ??story of the equity set up, and the decision against it ?? this court, will be found in 2 Marsh. 108, and 3 ??arsh. 147, to which we refer. Upon the return of the cause to the court below, af??r the decision of this court, on the death of King, it ??as revived by consent, in the names of his administra??rs and heirs, and commissioners were appointed to as??ss improvements, rents, waste, &c., on the premises, ?? be recovered by the heirs of Hawkins, and they were ??rected to report with such different aspects as the ??rties should direct. Commissioners appointed to assess improvements, rents, waste, &?? They accordingly reported the value of improve??ents made thereon by King, to be $1,052.25, and those ??ade by Wyat, who preceded King and sold to him, ??0. Commissioners' report. They then reported the rents upon the whole premises, to-wit: On that part improved when King took possession, during his whole occupancy, and that part?? improved by him, from the periods in which they were made, to be $3,126.62 1/2. The next computed the rents on the premises during the whole occupancy of King, as they were when he?? received them, not assessing any rents on the improvements of King and Wyat, at the sum of $2,020.50. They next assessed the rents as the land was improv??ed in fact, from June, 1814, when this controversy commenced, until the date of their assessment, to the sum?? of $1,266.25. They finally estimated the rents on the land, as improved by Hawkins omitting any rents on the improvements of King or Wyat, from June, 1814, to the sum o?? $748; and they estimated the reduction of soil, gener?? ally, at the sum of $139.50. *2 The court below disallowed the last charge in favo?? of Hawkins' heirs for reduction of soil, settled th?? amount of improvements recoverable by King's heir?? to be those made by both Wyat and King, amounting t?? $1,092.25, and credited Hawkins' heirs with the low??est assessment for rents, to-wit, those charged on th?? land as improved by Hawkins himself, from the com?? mencement of this suit, and thus found a balance in fa??vor of the representatives of King, of $344, for which ?? decree was rendered, and a lien enforced against th?? land for the payment of this balance. To reverse this decree, this writ of error is pros??cuted. And it is now insisted that the court erred in disa?? lowing the claim for reduction of soil, and also in disa??lowing the highest credit for rents, or some higher cre?? it reported, which would have given a balance i?? favor of the heirs of Hawkins. By the former decision of this court, the followin?? facts are settled between the parties: Wyat sold ?? King, but Hawkins did not sell to Wyat, and only a?? vised Wyat to sell to King, and was not instrument?? in inducing King to buy. (1.) If there was any evidence conducing to pro?? that King entered against the will, and without the a?? sent of Hawkins, or was apprised, at the time, th?? Hawkins claimed the land and meant to assert h?? claim, we should feel no hesitation in saying King was bound to account for rents during his whole occupancy, on all the improvements, whether made by him, Wyat or Hawkins, and if King could be allowed for improvements at all, he could only set them off against rents, so far as they would go, and no further. (1) One who enters upon land without the assent and against the will of the owner, or with acknowledge of his claim, and that he meant to assert it, is bound for rents on all the improvements, even those made by himself, after entry, and if allowed for improvements at all, can only set them off against the rent. (Common law)--Argu. (2.) It does not, however, seem that King entered mala fide, knowing that he could not get the land, nor that he was forbidden by Hawkins. On the contrary, Hawkins' consent to his entry, is rather to be inferred, and he entered as a purchaser and not as a tenant. Add to this, there was a long acquiescence in his possession, on the part of Hawkins and his representatives, and considerable laches and delay in asserting the legal estate. These circumstances we deem sufficient to excuse King from a charge of rents on any part of the improvements until the claim was asserted, and that Hawkins and his representatives ought not to be permitted to make him their innocent and mistaken receiver of rents, until the claim was set up. Of course, rents are only to be allowed from June, 1814, and this disposes of the two first modes of calculating rent. (2) Where the occupant is a bona fide purchaser from the possessor, with the knowledge of the holder of the title, and so enters, without being forbidden, and his possession is long acquiesced in, and there is considerable delay in asserting the title against him, he is bound for rent only from the commencement of suit. *3 (3.) But in deciding between the two last, we can have ??no hesitation in rejecting that adopted by the court be??ow, and embracing that which charges rents on all the ??mprovements existing on the land when the contro??versy commenced. (3) The occupant in such case, is entitled to compensation for his improvements; and whether at their value when made, or as they existed at commencement of suit, is bound for rents upon them from the latter date. But quaere of his right to recover for improvements beyond rents. If King or his representatives are to receive pay for these improvements, at their value when made, or ??en in the state they were in when the controversy commenced, according to the principles adopted by this court in the case of Ewing's heirs v. Handley's execu??ors, &c.,  4 Litt. Rep. 346, they must account for the ??ents thereon. These rents exceed the value of the improvements ??made, and, of course, it is unnecessary to decide wheth??r King' heirs could recover improvements beyond the ??ents. (4.) As to the item for reduction of soil, if it was only ??hat occasioned by the use of the land in a husbandlike ??anner, it must be supposed to be compensated by rent. (4) Reduction of soil by the use of land in a husband like manner, is compensated by rent.--(Common law.) (5.) But as it can not be presumed that the commis??ioners would have made any charge for deterioration ??y ordinary prudent use only, but only on such acts ??s injured the soil by improper use, and have classed it with waste, it ought to have been allowed as a charge against the heirs of King. (5) Charge for reduction of soil, classed in commissioners' report with waste, must be taken for improper, not ordinary use, and be allowed in addition to rents. (Common law.) Thus settling the account, there will be a balance found in favor of the heirs of Hawkins, instead of against them, of $313.50. This balance in their favor, protects them against any decree against them, and as they pray in their answers for no relief, they are not entitled to a decree for it. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs and the cause be remanded, with directions there to dissolve the injunction and dismiss the bill as to Hawkins' heirs, with costs. Bibb, for plaintiffs; Haggin, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Hawkins' Heirs v. King's Heirs 1 T.B.Mon. 161, 17 Ky. 161, 1824 WL 1519 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
