(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 275,  21 Ky. 275 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1551 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bryan v. Perry. Jun. 28, 1827. *1 Executions. Insolvent Debtors. Assignor and Assignee. Presumptions. Evidence. ERROR TO THE HENRY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 451 161 Execution 161XV Execution Against the Person 161k451 k. Discharge of Poor Debtors. Most Cited Cases A justice of the peace need not return a certificate of the insolvent's having taken an oath, nor a copy of his discharge. Bills and Notes 56 k 299 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(B) Indorsement for Transfer 56k299 k. Necessity, to Charge Indorser, of Proceeding  Against Maker. Most Cited Cases Where, in an action by the assignee against the assignor of a note, in which the defense is that the assignee did not prosecute the maker to insolvency, evidence that the body of the maker was committed, and that the justice took from the maker a schedule of his property, raises a presumption that the debtor took the oath of insolvency, and was duly discharged. Bonds 58 k 87 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k87 k. Rights and Liabilities on Assignment or Sale. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k90) The assignee has a remedy on the assignor, though he took out a ca. sa. against the obligor without a previous or subsequent fi. fa., the schedule showing that no property could be found;  and the obligor's insolvency may be proved by parol, in addition to the record evidence. Evidence 157 k 158(12) 157 Evidence 157V Best and Secondary Evidence 157k158 Facts or Transactions Described in or Evidenced by Writing 157k158(12) k. Insolvency or Bankruptcy. Most Cited  Cases In an action by an assignee on a promissory note against his indorser to recover the amount thereof after having pursued the maker of the note to insolvency, he may show by parol evidence that the maker of the note was arrested under a ca. sa. and subsequently took the insolvent debtor's oath. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action by an assignee of a promissory note against the assignors, to recover the amount, after having pursued the maker of the note to insolvency. Assignee v. assign or. Upon the trial of the issue of non assumpsit, the plaintiff in error, then plaintiff below, showed that the note was not due when assigned; that he commenced no action thereon; but at the first term of the court in the county where the maker of the note resided, he, the maker came into court, and confessed a judgment on the note; that after the term ended, he issued a capias ad satisfaciendum, in the first instance, under which the maker of the note was imprisoned, and rendered a schedule of his estate, and was discharged. In that schedule he declares he has then no estate of any kind, having some months before rendered a schedule of his estate, and taken the insolvent debtor's oath. The record, in which the first schedule was rendered, was also exhibited, wherein it appeared that he was imprisoned at the suit of another creditor, and to release himself, months before the note now in controversy became due, he had rendered a schedule of his estate, containing a few articles and debts of inconsiderable value, and that he had for that same demand, been pursued by writs of fieri facias, which were returned by the sheriff of the same county, """"no property found." *2 Evidence on the trial. On this evidence the court below, instructed the jury as in case of a nonsuit, because the plaintiff had not shown a regular proceeding by suit, and a fieri facias before the ca. sa. against the maker of the note previous to bringing this action. Instructions for a nonsuit. It is true that it has been often held that the assignee, to entitle him to his recourse against the assignor, must show diligence by suit, and then all legal means used in that suit for the recovery of the demand, before he can make the assignor responsible. It has also been held, that the prosecution of the demand by fieri facias alone, without showing also a ca. sa. is not enough. But it never has been held, so far as we know, that a fruitless ca. sa. executed, without a fieri facias, was not sufficient proof of insolvency in the maker of the note, and indeed, we conceive it ought not to be so held. For if the assignee, knowing that a fieri facias must be unavailing, chooses at once to issue his ca. sa. and thereupon the debtor is imprisoned, and renders a schedule of his estate, which shows that he has no estate, and takes the oath of an insolvent debtor; it must strike the mind of every reasonable man, that the proof of insolvency in the debtor is as strong and conclusive as can well be produced; and it would be absurd to compel the assignee, in such case, first to await the formality of a fieri facias, which would be a vain act. At all events, in this case we can not suppose that any fieri facias was necessary. The schedule rendered, produces nothing, but refers to a former record in which his estate was given up. When that record is produced, and is read without objection, it seems that he was first pursued by a fieri facias in vain, and then by a ca. sa. which produced a schedule wholly insufficient to pay the debt for which he was then imprisoned. This is clear proof of insolvency by judicial investigation. It was not necessary for the assignee to first take a fieri facias on the judgment against the obligor before his ca sa, nor afterwards when it appears from the schedule no property could be expected to be found. But it is insisted that it nowhere appears in the records produced, that the maker of this note ever took the oath of insolvency. That the warrant of the justices to the jailor, to bring up his body before them, and a schedule of his estate is all that appears, and there is no evidence that he took the oath required by law, or of his discharge from imprisonment. To this we answer, that the law does not require the justices of the peace, who shall administer the oath, and discharge the prisoner, to return to the clerk's office, a certificate of the oath or a copy of the discharge from confinement. Justice of the peace was not required to return a certificate of the insolvent debtor's having taken the oath, nor a copy of his discharge; that should be delivered to the jailer. *3 The schedule alone, is all that is to be returned, and the discharge is to be delivered to the jailor. If therefore, it appears by the return of the ca. sa. that the body has been taken or committed, and a schedule of the debtor's estate is returned, it is presumed that the debtor has taken the proper oath, preparatory to his discharge; and the presumption can not for a moment be indulged, that the justices took from the prisoner a schedule of his estate, without oath and without discharging him, and returned that to the clerk's office. The fact of the schedule appearing on the file as returned by the justices, verifies the propriety of all the necessary acts, as done, till the contrary appears. The schedule being returned, the presumption shall be the oath was taken and the prisoner duly discharged. It has also been urged that there was too much time given between the judgment confessed, and the emanation of the first execution of ca. sa. and that it was a discharge of the assignor. That an unreasonable delay at that point, would discharge the assignor, there can not be a reasonable doubt. But upon ascertaining the time when the term commenced, at which the judgment was confessed, and the length of time which the court was allowed to sit, and then adding thereto ten days, which the act of the legislature at that time required clerks to delay execution after the term was over, and it comes very near to the moment, when the execution was actually issued. At all events, there could not be more than three or four days to spare, which might be the delay of the clerk in observing a due rotation in the business of his office. This delay, therefore, can not discharge the assignor and the court below erred, in instructing the jury as in case of a non suit. Delay of assignee to issue the execution after judgment, will discharge assignor, but three or four days' delay has no effect. We have scarcely thought it necessary, to notice the remaining testimony of the insolvency of the maker of the note, offered by the plaintiff below, and rejected by the court. That evidence was in affirmance of the record evidence already adduced, and as such, could not be improper. But the record evidence offered, was so amply sufficient to sustain the action, that evidence corroborating it was wholly unnecessary, and therefore, the plaintiff could have lost nothing by its rejection. Assignee, in his action against assignor, may give parol evidence of obligor's insolvency in addition to the record proof. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Talbot and White, for plaintiffs; Mayes, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Bryan v. Perry 5 T.B.Mon. 275, 21 Ky. 275, 1827 WL 1551 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
