(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 134,  22 Ky. 134 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1647 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Briscoe's Distributees v. Brady, Administrator of Briscoe. Oct. 25, 1827. *1 Administrator's Accounts. ERROR TO THE BULLITT COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 507(4) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XI Accounting and Settlement 162XI(E) Stating, Settling, Opening, and Review 162k507 Hearing or Reference 162k507(4) k. Reference. Most Cited  Cases Reports of commissioners appointed by the county courts to settle the accounts of executors and administrators are of no validity until sanctioned by the court. Executors and Administrators 162 k 513(9) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XI Accounting and Settlement 162XI(E) Stating, Settling, Opening, and Review 162k512 Operation and Effect 162k513 In  General 162k513(9) k. Persons and Matters Concluded in  General. Most Cited Cases Accounts of executors and administrators, allowed by the county courts, are prima facie evidence against creditors and distributees, who are considered parties thereto. Courts 106 k 198 106 Courts 106V Courts of Probate Jurisdiction 106k198 k. Nature and Scope of Jurisdiction in General. Most Cited Cases The county courts have authority to grant administration, and the other powers usually incident to probate courts. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Brady, as the administrator of Briscoe, had applied to the county court, and obtained the the appointment of commissioners to settle his accounts as administrator. Appointment of commissioners to settle the administrator's accounts. The commissioners acted, and returned their report to court. Commissioners' report. Brady, the guardian for the infant distributees of Briscoe, appeared in court, and objected to the confirmation, approbation, and recording the report, and offered by his counsel, to show from the face of the report, and vouchers returned therewith as well as by other evidence, that the account was erroneous and incorrect, and that the charges were improperly made by the administrator. The guardian, on behalf of the distributees, offers objections, which the court refuses to receive. The court refused to permit the guardian to be heard, deciding that he had no such right to question the accounts in this mode, but must apply to the circuit court for redress, and that a report of commissioners, thus made out in good form, should not be questioned, expressing at the same time, an opinion that they could hear objections to the formality of the report, but none to the substance or merits thereof; and they received and recorded the report; from which decision the guardian appealed. If the county court had reversed the doctrine by them advanced, and decided they would have heard objections to the substance, and none to the form only, they would have been correct. *2 The county court are invested with the power to settle the accounts of executors and administrators--commissioners are employed for convenience and expedition. It is to the county court alone, that power is granted to settle the accounts of the executors and administrators, and not to commissioners appointed by them. The appointment of commissioners is an expedient adopted by the courts themselves, as a measure of convenience, and despatch, and must have arisen from the practice in the courts of chancery, of liquidating accounts by commissioners. After the report is thus made out, it has no validity till sanctioned by the court, and it is open to the exception of either party, and all just and legal exceptions ought to be admitted, and where the court is satisfied that the account is correct, and not before, it ought to be approved, and recorded. Reports of commissioners are of no validity until sanctioned by the court, and are open to the exceptions of either party, and subject to correction. Such accounts have been often held by this court, binding on both creditors and distributees, so far as to be prima facie evidence, although they may not know of them when made. If creditors and distributees are to be affected by the proceeding, they must be considered as parties to it, and have a right to appear, and see that it is rightly conducted; and if the principle is once adopted, that if they do appear, they have no right to be heard on the merits, and yet be affected by the evidence, the consequences would be monstrous. Indeed owing to the hurry of business in county courts, their change of justices holding the court, even within the same hour, and the exparte manner, in which administrators and executors may proceed with their accounts, no doubt many erroneous and fraudulent accounts may escape the ordeal, and the courts therefore ought not to throw barriers in the way, of investigating the merits of the proceeding, and to shut out the means of detecting such improper charges. Accounts of executors and administrators, allowed by the county courts are prima facie evidence against creditors and distributees; who must, therefore, be considered as parties thereto. The order approving and recording the report is reversed and set aside with costs, and the proceedings remanded, with directions to that court to permit the guardian to be heard in opposition to the account reported, before the court approve or reject it. Mandate. Mayes and Denny, for appellants. Ky.App. 1827. Briscoe's Distributees v. Brady 6 T.B.Mon. 134, 22 Ky. 134, 1827 WL 1647 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
