(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 426,  19 Ky. 426 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1334 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Dedman v. Chiles. Dec. 21, 1826. *1 Bills of Peace against Actions of Ejectment. APPEAL FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Injunction 212 k 1167 212 Injunction 212IV Particular Subjects of Relief 212IV(A) Courts and Actions in General 212k1167 k. Multiple, successive, or duplicative suits in  general. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 212k26(5)) On a bill for injunction against a fifth ejectment, threatened by the defendant after two dismissals and two judgments for the complainant, one of which was affirmed in the appellate court, the bill should be sustained, and an answer directed, according to the rules of equity. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a bill brought by the plaintiff in error, in which he alleges that he possesses a lot in Mountsterling, to which he sets out a chain of conveyances down to himself, commencing with a certain individual, whose title he does not explain, and he alleges that he and those under whom he claims, have had absolute uninterrupted adverse possession thereof, for about twenty-five years. He then alleges, that the defendant set up title thereto, and brought two ejectments in succession, and prosecuted each of them to some extent, so as to put him to some costs and trouble in defending them, and then dismissed them. That the defendant brought a third, and prosecuted the same to a full trial on the merits, and a verdict was found for the complainant, and a motion was made for a new trial, because the verdict was contrary to evidence, and overruled, and an exception taken, and the evidence spread upon record, and on an appeal to this court, the judgment was affirmed on the evidence. That the defendant then brought a fourth ejectment, and prosecuted the same to a full and laborious trial on the merits, when another verdict and judgment was rendered for him the complainant, which remains unaltered. That the defendant, relying on his superior wealth and means, threatens to bring a fifth ejectment and harass him again. Bill for injunction against a fifth ejectment threatened by defendant after two dismissals and two trials, on the merits and verdicts and judgments for complainant, one of which was affirmed in this court. He prayed for, and obtained an injunction, restraining further proceedings at law, and he prays that this injunction may be perpetuated, and his title established and quieted. Prayer of the bill and injunction. To this bill there was a demurrer, which the court below sustained, and dismissed the bill with costs, and to reverse that decree, this writ of error is prosecuted Demurrer and decree of the circuit court dismissing the bll. It is now insisted, for the defendant in error, who was also the defendant below, that the two ejectments brought and dismissed before a trial, can have no weight in support of the bill, and that no precedent can be found where the chancellor has sustained a bill and quieted a title, unless there had been three verdicts, and that the court ought not to sustain this bill, without a precedent, and thus enlarge the jurisdiction of the chancellor upon the ground exclusively occupied by a court of law. *2 Defendant's argument against the jurisdiction. It is true, that this is one of that kind of bills, in which the chancellor does take hold of, and manage a question purely legal, and the legality of the matter is not weakened even by twenty verdicts. It belongs to that class of bills called in the books bills of peace, and the chancellor for peace-sake thus interferes in a legal controversy. On the trial thereof, the chancellor will not blindly establish the title always, notwithstanding there may have been numerous verdicts, without looking into the title himself, and being satisfied that the party asking redress has some solid foundation for the claim which he asserts. Equity has jurisdiction to put an end to ejectments to prevent oppression and give the defendant peace. It is not therefore on the number of verdicts, that the chancellor extends his interference, but for the prevention of oppression and the multiplicity of suits. It is also true, that such a bill is allowed in but two cases, the one is where the plaintiff has first satisfactorily established his title at law, or where the persons who controvert it are so numerous, as to render an issue under the direction of a court of equity indispensable to embrace all the parties concerned and to save numerous suits. 2 John. Chy. Rep. 282. Bills to enjoin the prosecution of ejectments and of peace, are confined to cases where complainant has satisfactorily established his title at law, and where the parties are so numerous that an issue out of chancery is necessary. In this case there is but one litigant opposed to the title, and under the rule before cited, it was indispensable that the title should be first tried at law, which here has been done. In Tenham v. Herbert, 2 Adk. 483; Lord Hardwick refused to interfere until the title was tried at law; he did not refuse because it had not been tried a certain number of times, but because there had been no trial at law. No doubt if there had been a satisfactory establishment at law, he would have extended relief. Here there are two verdicts on the merits, and also an affirmance on the merits, even upon the evidence in a revising court, which ought to weigh something, at least, equal to a third verdict, and therefore, prima facie, that was sufficient ground for the interposition of the chancellor, especially when suits had been brought and dismissed, having the appearance of an intention of harassing the complainant, and lessening the value of the estate. Where there have been two verdicts and judgments in ejectments for the occupant, and one of them affirmed in this court, and two others brought and dismissed, a bill for injunction against a fifth is not demurrable, but prima facie maintainable. There will be less danger to the title of the defendant, if any he has, notwithstanding there may not have been a sufficient number of verdicts, in sustaining the bill on demurrer, than may be supposed. For if he shall shew by way of defence, any good grounds to believe that these verdicts were not on fair trials of the merits or that his claim is superior, the chancellor may indulge him in another trial at law, if he shall choose it, before his right is concluded. We therefore conceive that the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer. *3 The decree must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded with directions to overrule the demurrer, and direct an answer according to the rules of equity. Triplett for plaintiff; Jas. Trimble for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Dedman v. Chiles 3 T.B.Mon. 426, 19 Ky. 426, 1826 WL 1334 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
