(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 585,  10 Ky. 585 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1180 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lillard v. Henderson's Heirs. Apr. 10, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE BOONE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry called for "a creek about eight miles from the Big Bone Lick." Held, that the call for the distance from the lick must have been intended by the locator to be the nearest way usually traveled, near the distance intended;  and that, adopting the mode of traveling, every inquirer would have supposed quite another creek to be the one called for. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The heirs of Bennett Henderson, by their bill in equity, set up an entry made in the name of their ancestor, against an elder grant. The defendant below relies on the illegality of their entry and his elder patent. The court below sustained Henderson's entry, and decreed against the defendant. From this decree the defendant appealed, and the sole question for our decision is the validity of the entry of the complainants below. It is dated May, 13, 1780, on treasury warrant; and its calls are as follows: "On a branch emptying into Ohio about eight miles below the Big Bone Lick, about two miles from the river, nearly southeast from the mouth of said creek, to begin at a large buffaloe path at the point of a ridge running east and south for quantity." Its quantity is 2,000 acres. The Big Bone Lick is shown to have been notorious ever since the year 1774. It is situated on a creek emptying into the Ohio about two or three miles from the river, at the nearest point. The bearing from the Lick direct to the mouth of the creek, is N. 66 W. 1,255 poles; but with the meanders the distance to the river is much greater. From the mouth of the creek on which the Lick is situated to the mouth of a creek now claimed by the complainants, and now called Paint Lick, with the meanders of the river the distance is 1,358 poles. But from the Big Bone Lick to the mouth of Paint Lick, on a straight line is only four miles. From the mouth of Paint Lick to the next lowest creek now called Little Sugar Creek, with the meanders of the river, the distance is one mile and one half, and at about 60 poles further down the river is the mouth of another creek, now called Big Sugar Creek, and the distance from its mouth to the Big Bone Lick, on a direct line, is five miles and twenty poles.-- But going from the lick to the mouth of the Big Bone creek, and then with the meanders of the river, the distance is ten miles, three-quarters and forty-seven poles each of these streams, to-wit: Paint lick and the two Sugar creeks, going up them from the Ohio, bear a southeastwardly direction. Up Paint lick, at the distance of 488 poles from the mouth, with the meanders, and on a straight line bearing S. 61 E. 400 poles, and on the westwardly side of the creek is the point or spur of a ridge puting out from other ridges, or hills, of greater magnitude, and pointing nearly down Paint Lick, and after extending chirty-eight poles or thereabouts, nearly on a level, with a descent on each side, it descends to the bottom, at the descent of about thirty feet in fourteen poles distance.--This is claimed as the point of the ridge intended by the entry. Down this point descends a buffaloe path, or one that has the appearances of an old buffaloe path to this time. Such is proved to be its appearance about the year 1792 and since; and some of the witnesses speak of it as the largest path of that description coming down the points of ridges on the creek, while others say that there were such paths down every point, some about as large as this, and that points of ridges and paths were frequent, both on Paint lick and the two creeks called Sugar creeks. No witness proves any knowledge of this or any other path as early as the date of the entry. *2 It is not reasonable to suppose that an enquirer for this entry, having a general knowledge of the country, starting from the Big Bone lick, would pass down the creek on which the lick is situated, unless every other rout was impassable, which is not shown to be the case. A part of the distance arising from the crookedness of that stream, he would be going nearly a direct course from the object in view. The entry gives no intimation that this was the mode to be adopted. It is not even hinted that the lick was situated on such stream; and it is more probable that the locator would have computed the distance from the mouth of that stream to the stream on which he intended to locate, instead of from the lick itself, as he has done, had he intended the locator to pass that way. His calling for a distance from the lick itself, evidently shows that he must have intended, at most, the nearest way usually travelled or the most practicable rout to a point on the Ohio, about or near the distance intended. Adopting this as the mode of travelling, it is evident that every enquirer would have chosen Big Sugar creek, as the one best suited to the calls of the entry. An entry calling for a creek about eight miles from the Big Bone Lick, must depart from the lick and not from the mouth of the Big Bone Lick Creek. But suppose this difficulty to be removed, and that the subsequent locator really fixed upon Paint lick as the creek intended, it is unfavorable to this entry that it calls to lie on the creek, or branch, but does not inform us on which side we are to look for the ridge or trace meeting together. From its calls to run "east and south" for quantity, and be on the stream as a general call, we might suppose that it intended the upper or eastern side of the creek. Instead of this the beginning is claimed on the lower side, where by its calls it runs from the stream with the body of the land. To correct this deception, however, the call nearly southeast from the mouth of the creek is relied on. By this we ought to suppose that a course southeast from the mouth of the creek, at the end of about two miles would place us near the object intended. Such a course and distance would as well suit, as the one claimed; for we are not told that the ridge intended is near to, or has any connection with the creek itself. Of course any other point equally well complies with the calls. In addition to this it is proved that there are other points and other paths, nearly if not entirely as large as the one claimed in the neighborhood So that if we were to take the knowledge of the witnesses, who saw the road in modern times only, for that of the ancient explorer, and assume it as certain that the road, now found, was there at the date of the entry, (which is a very liberal allowance,) we should be of opinion that the entry is void. A beginning claimed in a position contrary to the indications of the entry can not prevail. The decision of the court below must, therefore, be reversed and the bill dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1821. Lillard v. Henderson's Heirs 3 A.K.Marsh. 585, 10 Ky. 585, 1821 WL 1180 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
