(Cite as: 4 Litt. 196,  14 Ky. 196 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1252 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Kinley, Easterday, &c. v. Butler and Waller. Oct. 17, 1823. *1 FROM THE GALLATIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Specific Performance 358 k 114(2) 358 Specific Performance 358IV Proceedings and Relief 358k112 Pleading 358k114 Bill, Complaint, or Petition 358k114(2) k. Averments as to Contract. Most Cited  Cases A written contract sought to be specifically enforced ought to be so stated as to manifest that the right asserted under it accrued from it, and ought to be produced, or some account given why it is not produced. Specific Performance 358 k 121(11) 358 Specific Performance 358IV Proceedings and Relief 358k118 Evidence 358k121 Weight and Sufficiency 358k121(11) k. Performance, Good Faith, and Diligence  of Plaintiff. Most Cited Cases On a bill by a vendee of the equitable title to land, to enforce the specific performance of a contract for a conveyance of the legal title between the holder thereof and the vendee's remote grantor, they must prove title from such remote grantor by a connective chain of conveyances. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 121 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k121 k. Acts Constituting Rescission. Most Cited  Cases Where a person purchased the equitable title to land, and refused to pay therefor until the vendor recovered the legal title, the vendor may sell to another, who will be protected in his title against such purchaser. Equity 150 k 194 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(B) Plea, Answer, and Disclaimer 150k194 k. Failure to Answer. Most Cited  Cases By failing to answer a bill, defendant admits merely the right which the bill and exhibits manifest, admitting them to be true and genuine. BIBB for plaintiffs; S. TODD for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Thomas L. Butler and William S. Waller, filed their bill, alleging that in the year 1794, Benjamin Craig purchased of William Peachy, of Virginia, two thousand acres of land at the mouth of Kentucky, and stipulated to pay the purchase money in three instalments, part of which was paid, he, the said Peachy, holding the legal estate, and retaining a lien for the purchase money, having given his bond to convey, with sundry stipulations to enforce punctual payment; that about the year 1796, Martin Hawkins became interested in said land, by a written contract with Craig, which interest was afterwards confirmed by a decree of the Franklin circuit court, rendered in 1804; that Hawkins being thus interested, sold about seventy-two acres of said tract to a certain John Tandy, and Tandy sold the same to Job Brockman, all verbally, and that Hawkins gave his bond to Brockman to convey the same, Tandy having paid Hawkins, and Brockman having paid Tandy in part only; that Brockman sold the same to Thomas C. Lewis, and assigned to him the bond of Martin Hawkins; that Lewis assigned and transferred his interest in said land to Thomas Carrico, and he sold and assigned the same to the complainants, having received all the purchase money except a portion left in their hands to discharge a balance due Peachy, as the proportion of said balance on the said seventy-two acres; that Craig having failed to pay Peachy, the executor of Peachy commenced this suit in chancery in the Gallatin circuit court, to enforce the lien against said land, and accordingly, in 1810, obtained a decree to sell the land, which was done by a commissioner appointed by said court, and John M'Kinley, who was the agent and attorney of Peachy's executor, became the purchaser of upwards of fourteen hundred acres of the original tract, including the aforesaid seventy-two acres; but that at the sale, it was agreed that said John M'Kinley should become the purchaser, and should convey to all those persons who had equitable claims under the said Benjamin Craig, or Martin or James Hawkins, upon their paying to him at the rate of $2.43 per acre, the balance due Peachy's estate amounting to that sum when averaged upon the quantity sold; that accordingly all those sub-purchasers stood by and did not bid, trusting to the representations of said M'Kinley; but that the said M'Kinley had refused to convey to them the said seventy-two acres, although they tendered to him the full amount of the money upon the aforesaid seventytwo acres, and he had refused to receive it, and gave a written acknowledgment of the tender and his refusal, and has sold and conveyed a large tract, including said seventy-two acres to a certain Lewis Easterday, who had full knowledge and notice of all the foregoing circumstances, and who refused to convey the land to them. They make Carrico, M'Kinley and Easterday defendants, and pray a decree for the conveyance of the land on their paying the money, and if this can not be had, a decree against Carrico for what they have paid him. *2 A decree on bill taken pro confesso, reversed. A contract ought to be stated so as to manifest that the right asserted under it accrued from it, and ought to be produced, or some account given why it was not produced. By failing to answer a bill, the defendant merely admits the right which the bill and exhibits, admitting them to be true and genuine, manifest, and nothing more. Easterday answered and faintly denies notice of the equity held by the vender of the complainants; alleges that his purchase was before that of the complainants from Carrico, and that they had notice of his purchase of M'Kinley. He professes his ignorance and requires proof of the transfers and transactions alleged in the bill, with respect to the seventy-two acres, and resists a decree. Carrico answered, concurring with the complainants in their statements made in the bill; admits his liability to refund what he has received, if the complainants fail in obtaining the land; and insist that they have a right to a decree for the land. M'Kinley, though subpoenaed, failed to answer the bill, and as to him it was taken as confessed. The circuit court decreed that M'Kinley and Easterday should both convey, and release their legal title to the complainants and pay costs, upon the complainants' paying or tendering the $2.43 per acre. To reverse this decree this writ of error is prosecuted, and it is insisted that the decree is erroneous on its merits. It does not appear from the bill what kind of an agreement was entered into by M'Kinley, whether written or verbal, or how long he was to wait with the purchasers, or with whom he made the agreement, whether with the individual holders who held parcels under Craig, or with one of them for himself and the rest. Indeed, so loosely drawn is the bill in this respect, it would seem from that part of it which speaks of his representations, that they were the loose declarations of M'Kinley at the time, designed only to silence the purchasers. If the bill was well enough framed in this respect, although the chancellor might not think himself authorized to coerce the agreement specifically, he might possibly give some relief to those interested in the land, on account of fraud in the sale, and the sacrifice made by thus silencing the purchasers. But without determining on this matter, when we travel into the proof, it appears that the contract or engagement on the part of M'Kinley, was with Benjamin Craig, and was reduced to writing. Craig deposes that at a time was fixed within which the portions of the different purchasers were to be discharged, and that time he could not remember, nor did he know what had become of the writing. Thus, it appears that the claim against M'Kinley arises, not out of any fraudulent conduct on his part, but presents itself in the attitude of a positive contract, and if the complainants succeed, they must do it by having that contract specifically enforced. Admitting, for the sake of argument, that the bill is sufficient to support such a claim, and, also admitting the genuineness of the exhibits filed, evidencing the intervening purchases between Craig and the complainants, as proof of every thing is required in the answer of Easterday, there is still a chasm in the proof, which presents an insuperable difficulty to a recovery of the land. To obtain the benefit of the contract between Craig and M'Kinley, it was necessary that the complainants should prove that they were in fact purchasers mediately or immediately from Craig, and that they really held under him all the equity which he could grant. To do this, they have showed writings and a decree evidencing a contract between Craig and Hawkins, and between Hawkins and Brockman. They have also shown written transfers from Lewis to Carrico, and from Carrico to themselves. But there is no written evidence, nor indeed competent parol testimony, of any sale from Brockman to Lewis, which was indispensable to show their title to Craig's contract. It is true, that in the year 1818, M'Kinley gave a written acknowledgment of a tender, in which he recites that one of the complainants produced to him a bond from Hawkins to Brockman, and by Brockman assigned to Lewis. But the exhibit filed has no such assignment; so that either this must have been a mistake of M'Kinley in describing the paper, or the bond filed is not the same. Besides, this acknowledgment of M'Kinley was made nearly seven years after his sale to Easterday; so that any acknowledgment he might then make, could not prejudice Easterday. *3 A further valid objection to coercing this contract specifically, is, its precise terms are not known. It is not exhibited or shown to be lost, nor is there the slightest suggestion in the pleadings, that it could not be obtained. This creates a presumption against the complainants, that it did not suit their purpose, or they would have made proper exertions to produce it. If these objections could be gotten over, and we take the proof as it is, it is shown that a time was set by the writing, in which the money should be paid by the several purchasers. If we are to come at this time by con jecture (for we have no other mode), it is not probable that M'Kinley, who had to account for the money to his employer, the executor of Peachy, agreed to wait eight years for these purchasers under Craig to make up their respective portions, and that length of time had elapsed after the time of his contract, before the money was offered to him. Time, in cases of specific performance, must be attended to, and if suffered to elapse, it must be shown that it was waived by the contracting party, or some good excuse must be offered for suffering it to elapse. Aware of this principle, the complainants have presented an excuse for the delay, which will be considered. They allege that they and Carrico, their vender, were advised that the suit by Peachy's executor against Craig, to enforce the lien against the land, was not regular, because the heirs of Peachy were not parties, and, therefore, by the sale, M'Kinley could not acquire the legal title, but afterwards had to prosecute another suit against the heirs for the title, and that they withheld the money until the event of this second suit was known, and so soon as this was decided in M'Kinley's favor, they then tendered the money. Upon examining the date of the decree in favor of M'Kinley against the heirs of Peachy, we discover that the complainants permitted five months to elapse after the decree against Peachy's heirs, before they made the offer of the money. But, admitting for a moment that they could surmount this delay, the question remains, was it proper that they should suspend their part of the contract until this suit of M'Kinley against Peachy's heirs was tried? We conceive not. They, or those under whom they claim, appear to have been no strangers to the suit and decree of Peachy's executor against Craig. M'Kinley does not appear to have been guilty of any concealment in this respect. It was evident, from any thing that appears, they were as sensible then as now, that the sale under a decree in favor of the executors, would not pass the legal estate. And it is equally clear, that it passed a valid equity, which could be sold; and as they bought it, or Craig bought it for them, they were bound to pay before the legal title was obtained, if their contract required it. M'Kinley was, by contract, to become purchaser for them, and thereby laid himself immediately liable to Peachy's executor, resting upon the sub-purchasers under Craig to furnish the money. It would be placing M'Kinley under circumstances of peculiar hardship, to leave him to pay up the money to Peachy's executor, and to permit the tenants to retain what they were to furnish, until he acquired the legal estate by a tedious suit, which title they originally knew he did not acquire by the purchase made for them, and after all this lapse of time, to compel him to surrender the title. If they failed in paying their proportions, it was just that M'Kinley should be permitted to make his money out of the land by disposing of it to other purchasers, as he did to Easterday. The sale under the decree passed an equity superior to that derived from Craig through Hawkins, and could only be overreached by the contract of M'Kinley at the sale. This contract, so far as we can ascertain it, was violated by the complainants or some of the previous holders of their interest, and M'Kinley was justifiable in selling to Easterday, who, now holding under him, must keep the land, and the decree of the court below in their favor, can not be sustained. But as in case of failure in obtaining the land, they pray a decree against Carrico for the money paid him, and he admits the amount and his liability to refund in that event, they will be entitled to a decree against Carrico for the money received by him with its interest. *4 The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded with directions to the court below to dismiss the bill with costs as to Easterday and M'Kinley, and to render a decree against Carrico for the money paid him with interest from the time of payment. Ky.App. 1823. McKinley v. Butler 4 Litt. 196, 14 Ky. 196, 1823 WL 1252 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
