(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 333,  22 Ky. 333 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1691 (Ky.)) Yel Flg Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Field v. Wallace's Adm'rs. Dec. 18, 1827. *1 Executors, &c. Pleading. Repleader. Limitations. ERROR TO THE OHIO CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 83(2) 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(D) Death and Administration 241k83 Death of Person Liable 241k83(2) k. Effect of Administration of Estate of Decedent  or Want Thereof. Most Cited Cases In actions against executors or administrators, the six months after the death, in which no action can be commenced, shall be excluded. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is assumpsit against administrators, with two counts; the first alleging an assumpsit by the intestate, and the second an assumpsit by both the intestate in his lifetime, and the defendants, his administrators since his death. Count--assumpsit by intestate and administrator. There are two pleas, to-wit, non-assumpsit by the intestate, and non-assumpsit by the intestate within five years, and no answer to the assumpsit by the administrators. There was a verdict for the defendant below, which the court refused to set aside, when applied to for a new trial. Non assumpsit by intestate, and non assumpsit by him within five years. It is clear, that but part of the declaration is answered. The assumpsit by the administrators is not controverted by any plea; consequently, no judgment ought to have been rendered for the defendant, when only one assumpsit was answered. Verdict for defendant; motion for a new trial; overruled, and judgment. It is assigned for error, and has been urged in argument, that the court below erred in its instructions given to the jury, upon the effect of a subsequent acknowledgment to take the case out of the statute of limitations. These instructions if given, can not be noticed. The clerk has copied into the record, a paper, purporting to be instructions given to the jury, with a note at the bottom, that they were given. But these instructions, if such they may be called, are not made part of the bill of exceptions nor is there any complaint that they were given. Whether therefore, the loose paper belongs to this cause, or was only written with intention to be given, we can not know, and they were improperly copied by the clerk, as they were in no way, by the act of the court below, made part of the record. In such case, count on one assumpsit by decedent and another by administrators, and non assumpsit within five years by decedent, and verdict for defendant; there can be no judgment, but repleader awarded. Instruction; record; exceptions. One other question will be noticed, as it appears on a motion for a new trial, and may again occur. The assumpsit of the intestate proved, comes within the term of five years before the commencement of the action, provided the term of six months, allowed by statute, after administration granted, before suit could be brought, is taken out of the computation of time. This appears to have been overlooked by the court, and forbids a verdict for defendant. *2 In actions against executors, &c., the six months after the death, in which no action can be commenced, shall be excluded. Whether the plaintiff below ought to reply this exception in the statute, which allows the six months or has a right under the general replication, to exclude it in the computation, we need not determine, as no replication of that kind is presented, and the plea is to part of the action only. But it is mentioned that future difficulties may be avoided, as it will be the duty of the court below, to award a repleader. Query, whether this exception ought to be replied. The judgment is reversed with costs, and verdict set aside, and cause remanded with directions for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Mayes, for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Field v. Wallace's Adm'rs 6 T.B.Mon. 333, 22 Ky. 333, 1827 WL 1691 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
