(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 399,  10 Ky. 399 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1110 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. George E. Monroe v. David Castleman. May 29, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Attachment 44 k 148 44 Attachment 44IV Writ or Warrant 44k148 k. Recital of Cause of Action. Most Cited Cases Pleading 302 k 305 302 Pleading 302IX Profert or Oyer 302k305 k. Profert. Most Cited Cases An attachment is in the nature of a process, and need not make profert of the note on which it is founded. If it is so special as to bar another action for the same cause, it is good. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an attachment issued by a justice of the peace, and returned to the circuit court. The defendant appeared and demurred to the attachment. The court below overruled the demurrer and gave judgment for the plaintiff; to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted. It is now contended in this court that the attachment is defective in not making profert of the notes evidencing the debt for which the attachment issued. It has been decided by this court that an attachment ought to state the demand for which it was brought, sufficiently explicit to make it a good bar in a future action for the same cause. But it never has been held that it should possess all the requisites of a declaration. An attachment must answer the end of process as well as pleading, unless a declaration is filed. And in no instance has process been deemed invalid, because it wants profert; nor is profert known in process. Nor do we conceive such requisition ought to be extended to an attachment of this character. It is a requisite in pleading only. It is also objected that the right of the plaintiff below to one of the notes on which the attachment is founded is not explicitly stated. The note is said in the attachment to have been executed by the defendant below to Gabriel Tandy. But it alleged in the attachment that Tandy is the assignor of the plaintiff as to said note, and the plaintiff is declared to be the owner thereof. This we deem a sufficient allegation to sustain the attachment and to authorize a judgment in favor of the plaintiff below for the amount of that note. Besides, the attachment is founded on another note, which is explicitly set out in every part, and showed that the plaintiff below had a good cause of action to that amount at least. As the defendant below risqued his case on a demurrer, this note alone was sufficient to sustain the attachment. On a demurrer the question was not whether the plaintiff was entitled to less than he had demanded, but whether he was entitled to anything, admitting all his allegations to be true. If the small note was not sufficiently set out, as to its assignment to warrant the judgment, the defendant might, by some means, have attempted to exclude it in evidence, and thereby have lessened the judgment. That course he did not take in the court below, nor does he complain of the amount of the judgment by an assignment of error in this court. *2 An attachment is in the nature of process, and need not make profert of the note on which it is founded--if it is so special as to bar another action for the same cause, it is good. It is alleged that the attachment and bond is defective in other respects. We do not perceive anything in either which does not fully comply with the requisites of the act of assembly, under which the proceedings were had. Besides this assignment of error is too general to be further noticed. The judgment must be affirmed with damages and costs?? Humphreys for plaintiff, Breckenridge for defendant. Ky.App. 1821. Monroe v. Castleman 3 A.K.Marsh. 399, 10 Ky. 399, 1821 WL 1110 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
