(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 228,  17 Ky. 228 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1540 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Pulliam's Administrators v. Robinson. Dec. 14, 1824. *1 Occupying Claimants, Warrantor, Compensation for Improvements, Equity Jurisdiction. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 201 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(A) As to Each Other 400k201 k. Improvements. Most Cited Cases The compensation which a vendee with warranty, who is evicted by a paramount title, recovers, or could recover, for improvements on the land at the time of his purchase, must be deducted from the purchase money and interest for which his vendor is liable on his warranty. Ejectment 142 k 142(2) 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k142 Grounds for Compensation for Improvements or Taxes Paid 142k142(2) k. Title and Possession to Support Claim in  General. Most Cited Cases An occupant of land of which an entry and survey has been made is entitled to pay for his improvements, though the patent did not issue until after a judgment in ejectment had been recovered. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. Benjamin Pulliam's administrators brought their action at law against the defendant in error, and recovered judgment against him for a sum of money, for failing to convey a tract of two hundred acres of land, which he had sold to their intestate, and executed his written agrement to convey, in 1812. He then filed his bill alleging that there were improvements on the land, when sold, nearly, if not entirely to the full amount recovered against him; that James Coleman had brought his action of ejectment, and by an adverse title recovered the land from the widow of said Pulliam, as she resided thereon with her family after his death, and that commissioners were appointed to value the improvements; but the widow of said Pulliam in her own right, had purchased the land of said Coleman, and he either had satisfied the family for the improvements, or they had failed to assert their claim against him, under the occupying claimant laws. He claimed a discount equal to the value of the improvements. The answer admits the material facts, but denies the reception of any pay for the improvements, and denies that they were able to recover any improvements under the occupying claimant laws, because there was no title, the foundation of which was of public record. The court decreed that an allowance should be made equal to the rates which the improvements bore, at the time of the sale, to the price for which the land sold, and estimated that proportion to the sum of two hundred dollars, and to that amount perpetuated the injunction, and to reverse that decree, the administraors have prosecuted this writ of error. It cannot be objected to this decree, that the amount allowed for the improvements is too high; for no witness proves a less amount than what is allowed; and as the court only allowed the relative sum which the improvements then bore to the whole price of the land when sold, it is as reasonable an allowance as the plaintiffs in error could expect. *2 (1.) The claim sold by the plaintiff in error, originated by a county court certificate for improving and settling the vacant lands of this Commonwealth, and a survey made thereon, and a patent issued. The patent, however, did not issue until after Coleman recovered his judgment in ejectment. But we do not apprehend that the patent was necessary to entitle the occupants to recover payment for their improvements. The entry and survey were sufficient for that purpose, and the bond or writing from the complainant was sufficient to connect them in equity with the public records, and to entitle them to the value of their improvements. (1) An entry and survey is a claim of public record within the meaning of the occupying claimant laws, and a bond from the person in whose name the survey was made, to the accupant, is sufficient to connect him with the record, and entitle him to compensation for improvements. (2.) As to the title of Coleman, it does not appear from which State it was derived, whether from this State or the State of Virginia; so that it cannot be pretended, that charging him with the improvements would have violated the compact between the two States, which some have contended to be the result of our occupying claimant laws; so that there is no pretended bar shown to exist in the road of recovering the improvements. (2) Where it does not appear that the title of the successful claimant is derived from Virginia, the consistency of the occupant laws with the compact, can not be brought in question. (3.) Nor do we conceive that the fact of never having recovered the value of the improvements from the successful claimant, can make any difference, when it was in their power to have done so, and they failed to embrace the opportunity. Of whom they are now to recover for improvements, whether of Coleman or his vendee, we need not determine. Suffice it to say that they have now, or have had the right to recover, and that is sufficient to allow the discount made by the court below. (3) The compensation which an alienee with warranty, who is evicted by a paramount title, recovers, or could recover, for improvements on the land at the t??me of his purchase, must be ratably deducted from the purchase money and interest for which the alienor is liable on his warranty. The right of the vender to deduct the value of improvements on land which he sold, in case of eviction, has been acknowledged by this court, in the case of Bell's executors v. Booker, 3 Bibb 173. It is founded on a clear principle of equity. If he sold improvements and the vendee has not lost them, but has recovered, or could recover their value of another, it is clear that the vendee cannot recover the amount twice. (4.) Nor do we doubt the jurisdiction of the chancellor in this case. The improvements compose part of the consideration given by the vender for the purchase money, and to that extent the consideration has not failed. The remedy at law to recover them is not clear, and to have set them off in the trial at law, as they were not liquidated, would have been difficult; and it was competent for the chancellor to ascertain how much of the consideration had not failed, and to deduct it accordingly. *3 (4) Where the alienee of land, after eviction, recovers at law of his warrantor, without deduction of the value of the improvements at the time of the purchase, which he as occupant recovered or could have recovered from his evictor, the chancellor has jurisdiction, and will enjoin so much of the judgment. The decree must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Swigert and Crittenden, for plaintiffs; J. J. Marshall for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Pulliam's Adm'rs v. Robinson 1 T.B.Mon. 228, 17 Ky. 228, 1824 WL 1540 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
