(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 570,  10 Ky. 570 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1176 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Helm & Reed v. Crawford, Crist et al. Apr. 6, 1821. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases The omission to show an object called for, which might materially affect the position of the entry, is fatal. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry calling "to exclude all prior claims and include the quantity," and calling for objects of notoriety which would include more than the warrant justifies, is invalid. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 The appellants, who were complainants in the court below, crave relief against sundry adverse entries and patents of elder date; and for this purpose set up an entry on treasury warrant for 2,500 acres of land, dated December 20, 1782, in the name of Lynaugh Helm. The defendants, now appellees, rely not only on their elder grants, but the validity of their entries, and an adverse possession of more than twenty years. If the entry of the complainants can not be sustained, it will be wholly unnecessary to inquire into the merits of the defence set up. The calls of this entry are:"To begin at the mouth of Roger's run, the waters of Coxe's creek, and at a tree marked L. H. thence up said run to Froman's road, then up Froman's road until the head waters of Coxe's creek and the drains of Wilson's creek waters join the land of Thomas Saunderson, thence down the said waters of the creek to the mouth, thence up the creek to the beginning--to exclude all prior rights, and to include the quantity, and several improvements made by Thomas Whitledge." Roger's run is a small branch emptying into Froman's creek which in turn discharges itself into Coxe's creek. These runs had acquired their respective names before the date of this entry and are proved to be sufficiently notoriour for good locative objects. In like manner Froman's road, which crossed Roger's run some distance above its mouth and run westwardly towards Wilson's creek, is shewn to have been very notorious at the date of this entry. Sufficient notoriety is also attached to Wilson's creek. So far the calls of this entry are well sustained. The proof is, however, totally silent as to the remaining objects called for in the entry, most of which are necessary to fix its position. As the entry calls for the tree marked L. H. to be at the mouth of Roger's run, we have not thought it necessary to inquire what effect the absence of proof of the existence of this tree ought to have on the entry. For if the entry is commenced at the mouth of the run and extended up it southwardly to Froman's road and then west with the road, it must stop in pursuing the road, at the point where "the head waters of Coxe's creek and the drains of Wilson's creek join the land of Thomas Saunderson." The land of Saunderson is not shewn. The surveyor, in making out his report in this cause, has represented a figure which he calls "Saunderson's land." But no entry, survey or patent, or any scrap of title, to land in that name, is produced. Nor is there any proof that Saunderson had such land, or where it is, by reputation in the neighborhood. To remedy this, the appellants have attempted to prove the spot where the waters of Coxe's and Wilson's creek join each other, and there to terminate their survey on Froman's road. This can not avail them; for it is not the junction of these two waters, which is called for by the entry, but the place where these waters join Saunderson's land. The omission then to exhibit the position of Saunderson's land, which might materially affect the position of Helm's entry must be deemed fatal according to the principles admitted in the cases of  M'Gee v. Thompson, 1 Bibb, 136,  Davis, &c. v. Bryant, 2 Bibb, 110,  White v. Wilson, 3 Bibb, 541. *2 Omitting to shew an object called for in an entry, which might materially affect the position of the entry, is fatal to the entry, though other objects called for therein are amply proved. But if the point where the waters of Coxe's creek join those of Wilson's creek, be admitted as the proper point to terminate this line, the entry of the appellants would be still attended with difficulties. From this point the entry must run at a right angle or north "to the west fork of Coxe's creek." The direct proof with regard to the notoriety of Coxe's creek itself is very feeble. But as there are many entries and surveys filed, some older than the appellant's entry, calling it Coxe's creek--and as the entry itself clearly shews that the stream into which Roger's run ultimately discharges itself (Froman's creek being well known), was the stream which the locator intended to designate by the name of Coxe's creek, it may well be inferred from the way the witnesses mention it, as well as from the size of the stream, that it was notorious. But the west fork is not shewn to be thus known by reputation. Two westwardly forks are shewn on the plat, and one of them is reported, by the surveyor, under the name of Cane run, and the other by the name of the West fork. Running north then or at right angles from the junction of Coxe's and Wilson's creek waters, the course first intersects Cane run, and continuing north, reaches the West fork. Down one of these to the mouth at Coxe's creek, and up the creek to the beginning must be the mode of closing the survey. We consider it immaterial which of these streams is taken as the west fork. For if the survey be closed by going down Cane run, at least a half more than the quantity is obtained, and by descending the west fork, nearly three times the quantity is included. So large a territory as either of these modes must include, fixed by positive calls, taken in conjunction with the last expressions of the entry "to exclude all prior claims, and include the quantity," evidently shews that the locator intended to guard against an unprofitable appropriation of his warrant, by leaving himself room to plot out claims thereafter discovered by himself, without leaving others the means of finding out the claims he intended to expunge; and thus he has made the whole too uncertain to attach itself to any particular spot, and for this reason he must lose all according to the principles settled by this court in the cases of  Bush v. Jamison, 3 Bibb, 118, Coleman v. Henderson, 1 Marsh. 412, Finley v. Harlan's heirs, Fall term, 1820. Notoriety of a stream, in the absence of stronger proof, may be inferred from circumstances. An entry calling for specified and known objects "to exclude all prior claims" and containing much more than the warrant justifies can not prevail. The decree of the court below must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1821. Helm v. Crawford 3 A.K.Marsh. 570, 10 Ky. 570, 1821 WL 1176 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
