(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 203,  17 Ky. 203 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1531 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Shepherd's Heirs v. Young. Dec. 15, 1824. *1 Jurisdiction of Courts, Constitutional Law, Removal of Causes from the State to the Federal Courts, Possession, Bar in Equity. APPEAL FROM THE HARDIN CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Removal of Cases 334 k 40 334 Removal of Cases 334III Citizenship or Alienage of Parties 334k40 k. Controversies Between Citizens of Same State Claiming Lands Under Grants of Different States. Most Cited Cases A party claiming land, under a grant from a state in which the suit is pending, cannot remove the cause to the United States court, because the other party claims under a grant from another state. Courts 106 k 489(1) 106 Courts 106VII Concurrent and Conflicting Jurisdiction 106VII(B) State Courts and United States Courts 106k489 Exclusive or Concurrent Jurisdiction 106k489(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The federal courts have not exclusive jurisdiction over suits between citizens of the same state claiming land under grants from different states, and a defendant to such suit cannot plead the matter to the jurisdiction. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. The ancestor of the appellants, and on the death of whom this suit was revived in the names of his heirs, claimed the land under an entry of Virginia and a grant issued by this commonwealth after the separation, and to assert title, filed this bill, in the circuit court, against the appellee, who also claimed it likewise under an entry of Virginia and a patent of that state, issued previous to the separation. After answer filed, and the cause was nearly or perhaps entirely prepared for hearing, the appellants filed their petition, under the act of Congress, praying for the removal of the suit to the circuit court of the United States for this district, relying on the ground that the grants were issued by different States. Their petition was at first granted, and bond and surety given for the removal of the suit. Afterwards, during the same term, the court re-considered the application, and rescinded the former order, and overruled the application, and afterwards proceeded to hear the cause on its merits, and dismissed the bill; from which decree this appeal is prayed, and the decision on the petition is assigned as error. The constitution of the United States, in defining the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, uses terms broad enough to give the Federal courts jurisdiction in such a case, by the expressions, "between citizens of the same state, claiming lands under grants of different states." Still, however, such grant of jurisdiction is not exclusive; and it never has been held, that where the parties were thus situated, the defendant could plead the matter to the jurisdiction of a state court which had possession of the cause; and the courts of all the states have went on, when appealed to, and exercised jurisdiction, so far as we are informed, in all the cases where jurisdiction was given to the Federal courts; and these different courts, by general practice, have supposed the jurisdiction to the concurrent. If a defendant could not plead this matter and oust the state court of its jurisdiction, much less ought a plaintiff, under the constitution, first apply to the state court, and then claim a removal of the cause. *2 The constitution of the United States does not confer on the Federal courts exclusive jurisdiction between citizens of the same state, claiming land under grants from different states; therefore a defendant to a suit in a state court, in such case, can not plead to the jurisdiction of the court. To authorize this to be done, an act of Congress has passed. Whether the act of Congress could, by acting on this subject, make such a jurisdiction exclusive, especially after the state tribunal had possession of the cause, may be a question worthy of consideration, and one which no state court has yet, within our knowledge, made trial of, by refusing the application, when properly made. Nor can the complainant in such case, for anything in the constitution, have right to remove the case. We need not, however, enquire into it now, until we see whether the applicants in this instance have made out a case coming within the act; for if the case did not come up to the act, the court below could not have erred in rescinding its first decision and retaining the cause, notwithstanding the afore-recited clause of the constitution. Quere--Is the act of Congress for the removal of causes from the state to the Federal courts constitutional? The requisitions of the act are express, that the party applying "shall state to the court, and make affidavit, if they require it, that he claims and shall rely upon a right or title to the land, under a grant from a state other than that in which the suit is pending, and shall produce the original grant or an exemplification of it." The act does not authorize the party claiming under a grant from the state where the suit is pending, to remove the cause, because his adversary claims under a grant from another state. Here, the complainant stated that he claimed the land under, and produced a grant from the same state in which the suit was pending, while his adversary held under a grant from a different state; so that it lay in the mouth of his adversary, and not in his own, to make the application. The provision is evidently founded upon the jealousy entertained of state tribunals, that they might be partial to the grants of their own state; and no provision exists, known to this court, which has attempted to take from state tribunals the right to proceed in cases where the applicant claims under a grant from the same state, as the complainant did in this instance. It follows, then, that the court below erred in granting the application in the first instance, and acted correctly in reversing the decision while the record was in its power. The entry set up by the appellees, has not been questioned in argument, and is unquestionably a good one, and we shall not recite it; for, among other matters of defence relied upon in the answer, twenty years' adverse possession within the interference, has been set up; and although it is contended that the proof does not make out the defence, we think, when fairly weighed the fact is otherwise. *3 Twenty years' adverse possession of land, is a bar against junior patentee, of all relief in equity. Since the case of Reed and Glenn v. Bullock, &c., Litt. S. C. 510, and the series of cases which have followed it, of Braxdale v. Speed, not reported; Wilson's heirs v. Bodley, 2 Litt. Rep. 55;  Floyd's heirs v. Johnson's heirs, 2 Litt. Rep. 109, as well as other cases, the question, in this state, must be considered as conclusively settled, that such adverse possession of twenty years must bar all relief. The decree is, therefore, affirmed with costs. B. Hardin and Crittenden, for appellants; Bibb, for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Shepherd's Heirs v. Young 1 T.B.Mon. 203, 17 Ky. 203, 1824 WL 1531 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
