(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 243,  17 Ky. 243 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1546 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Turners v. Turner. Dec. 18, 1824. *1 Consideration, Trusts, Evidence, Error. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; JAMES CLARK, JUDGE. West Headnotes Deeds 120 k 17(1) 120 Deeds 120I Requisites and Validity 120I(A) Nature and Essentials of Conveyances in General 120k14 Consideration 120k17 Sufficiency 120k17(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A deed in anticipation of the grantor's incapacity to attend to his business, and for a sum of money, conveying his estate in trust for himself for life, and at his death to be distributed according to the provisions of his will before made, is a sufficient consideration, and cannot be revoked. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of detinue for a slave, and a verdict and judgment were rendered for the defendant in the court below; to reverse which, the plaintiffs have prosecuted this writ of error. A deed which recites that the grantor was aged and infirm, and at times unable to attend to his business, and anticipating incapacity, in consideration of the premises and $400, conveys his estate in trust for the use of himself for life, and at his death to be distributed according to the provisions of his will, before made, is on sufficient consideration, and passes the legal title to the trustees, and can not be revoked. The slave in question belonged to Thomas Turner, and the plaintiffs introduced a deed from Thomas Turner to them, embracing this slave and other real and personal estate. It recites, that the grantor was aged and infirm, and at times incapable of managing his business, by reason of old age and debility, and was liable to impositions, and anticipating probable incapacity by the further progress of years, in consideration of the premises and the further consideration of four hundred dollars, he conveyed all his estate to the plaintiffs, "to have and to hold the estate in trust, to and for the use, intents and purposes following; that is to say, in trust for the use of the said Thomas, for and during the period of his natural life, and no longer, and then to descend and vest and be distributed by his executors, agreeably to the provisions of a will made by the said Thomas Turner before the deed." Under this deed, the plaintiffs took possession of the estate, and hired out this slave, from year to year, until the defendant got him, and still held him. The defendant then produced a deed from the said Thomas, for the same slave, with other estate, dated subsequent to the deed produced by the plaintiffs, and referring to the plaintiff's deed, and revoking it, and expressing a consideration of natural love and affection. A subsequent deed from the same grantor, attempting to revoke a former deed not revocable, and in consideration of natural love and affection, to convey the same estate, can not be given in evidence in an action by the trustees of the first, against the donee, unless it be accompanied by evidence impeaching the first deed. *2 To the admission of this deed, the plaintiffs objected; but the court admitted it. They then attempted to impeach it, by showing that the grantor was incompetent, by reason of dotage and insanity, to make it, and the court refused to permit them to do so. It is clear, that if the first deed was valid to pass the legal estate to the plaintiffs, it gave them a right to recover in this action, and the latter deed could give no title to the defendant. We perceive no legal objections to the plaintiff's deed. Its consideration is sufficient to support it; and that it was competent for the grantor to pass the legal estate for his benefit, there can be no doubt. Nor do we see any objections to it in a moral point of view. Here, no creditor is concerned; and it was commendable to place the estate in a situation to be preserved, when he became sensible that his approaching incapacity might subject it to waste, and himself to gross impositions. This deed is, therefore, valid; and as it was intended to prevent future dispositions of his estate, such as that relied on by the defendant, it was defeating this deed, to permit the latter to be given in evidence, and then protect it from impeachment. It is true, that such subsequent conveyance might have been given in evidence by the defendant, for the purpose of putting himself in the attitude of a purchaser, and then of impeaching the prior deed. But this was not attempted or suggested; and admitting it, and not permitting it to be impeached afterwards, was certainly calculated to induce the jury to believe that the grantor could pass the estate, against the provisions of his former deed, and even revoke such former deed. This conclusion renders it unnecessary to decide upon the other points in the cause. Permitting the latter deed to go to the jury without such evidence and refusing to allow it to be impeached as fraudulent, is calculated to induce the jury to believe the grantor could pass the estate, notwithstanding the former deed, and is error. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Caperton and Haggin, for plaintiff; Turner, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Turners v. Turner 1 T.B.Mon. 243, 17 Ky. 243, 1824 WL 1546 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
