(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 492,  10 Ky. 492 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1144 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Schooler v. Ashurst. Jun. 7, 1821. West Headnotes Names 269 k 7 269 Names 269k1 Requisites and Sufficiency 269k7 k. Derivations and Corruptions. Most Cited Cases "Josier," for "Josiah," is not a misnomer;  the spelling being that of the vulgar pronunciation. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 This is a summons and petition. The petition was demurred to, and the demurrer was overruled by the court below. The only objection perceived, to the petition, is the name of the defendant in error is written in the first part of the petition "Josiah" and in the note recited in the petition "Josier." It is contended that the note recited does not appear to be the note of the person suing. The plaintiff in error pleaded three pleas in bar--one of payment and two of usury. The defendant replied, traversing these pleas, and issues were joined and the cause continued. At a subsequent term, the plaintiff in error made default, and the court thereupon rendered judgment against him, without empannelling a jury to try the issues. As the plaintiff in error held the affirmative of all these issues, and did not appear to substantiate them, it was perfectly regular to render judgment by default against him, without regarding his pleas.  Miller v. Miller, 4 Bibb, 341. A defendant holding the affirmative of the issue, failing to appear, judgment by default, is properly rendered against him. A defendant's name in a note spelt as it is vulgarly pronounced, is no misnomer. As to the variation in the names stated in the note and that by which the plaintiff has sued, it is so slight as to be barely percepitble to the ear, and one is the vulgar mode of pronouncing the other, so that a person whose orthography was inaccurate, and who was illiterate, might easily write one for the other. And on general demurrer it ought not to be fatal. 1 New York Term Rep., 362. Judgment affirmed with damages and costs. Ky.App. 1821. Schooler v. Ashurst 3 A.K.Marsh. 492, 10 Ky. 492, 1821 WL 1144 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
