(Cite as: 4 Litt. 436,  14 Ky. 436 (Ky.),  1822 WL 1833 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Crutcher v. The Bank of Kentucky. Fall Term, 1823. *1 FROM THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. PAUL I. BOOKER SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Principal and Agent 308 k 97 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(A) Powers of Agent 308k95 Express Authority 308k97 k. Construction of Letters or Powers of Attorney.  Most Cited Cases A power of attorney to renew a note on which the principals were liable as indorsers conferred authority only to execute the indorsements in the order conformable to that in the original note. Bills and Notes 56 k 138 56 Bills and Notes 56IV Extension and Renewal 56k138 k. Renewal, and Agreements to Renew. Most Cited Cases A renewal note on which the order of the accommodation indorsements is changed without authority of the indorsers is not binding on the latter. Bills and Notes 56 k 264 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(A) Before Delivery to or Transfer by Payee 56k257 Rights of Indorser 56k264 k. As Against Other Indorsers. Most Cited  Cases The liabilities of accommodation indorsers inter se are the same as those of ordinary indorsers on indorsements made in the usual course of trade. HARDIN for plaintiff; CRITTENDEN for defendant. This opinion was delivered on the 19th day of December, 1822; but was suspended, on the application of one or both the parties, and for that reason was not published in the 2d volume. Afterwards, the case was compromised; but the Reporter has learned, since he commenced the publication of this volume, that the compromise was not produced by any doubt expressed or felt by the court, as to the correctness of the doctrine contained in the opinion; that they are still satisfied with it, and consider it as a case which ought to be published. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of debt, brought by the Bank of Kentucky against Crutcher, as an endorser upon a negotiable note made by Thomas Q. and H. H. Roberts to said Crutcher, and by Crutcher endorsed to James Percefal, and by Percefal to the bank; but each of these endorsements was made by James T. Pendleton, cashier of the branch bank where the note was discounted, as agent for the said endorsers. The defendant below, now plaintiff in error, by plea supported by oath, denied making the endorsement. On the trial, it appeared that a note was made by the said Thomas Q. and H. H. Roberts, payable to said James Percefal, and that he then endorsed it to Crutcher, and Crutcher to the bank, who discounted it at the instance of, and for the accommodation of said Thomas Q. and H. H. Roberts; that while said note was in bank, and had not arrived at maturity, the said endorsers executed to the said Pendleton the following letter of attorney, to-wit: *2 A power of attorney authorizing the attorney to sign the names of the endorsers, for the renewal of an accommodation note, will not justify changing the order of the endorsers, so as to subject them to greater responsibilities than they were subjected to on the original note. "Know all men by these presents, that we, James Percefal and James Crutcher, of Elizabethtown, Hardin county, Kentucky, hath this day appointed James T. Pendleton, cashier of the Bardstown branch bank, and John M'Meekin, jun. clerk of said bank, our attorneys, for the special purpose of signing our names as endorsers for Thomas Q. and H. H. Roberts, on a note for five thousand dollars, payable at the Bardstown branch bank, and which note we have heretofore been endorsers on; they, the said James T. Pendleton and John M'Meekin, jun. or either of them, to sign our names on the said notes when renewed, until otherwise instructed by us." A note otherwise executed is not within the letter of attorney, and not binding on the principal. At the time of giving this power, there was only this one note in bank, and when it became due, another note was presented to renew it, drawn by the same makers, payable to Crutcher, which Pendleton, the agent, endorsed for him to Percefal, and then endorsed for Percefal to the bank, and this is the note sued on, it having been protested when due, and notice thereof given to Crutcher. The counsel for the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury, that if, from the evidence, they believed that, at the time when the letter of attorney was executed, the note in bank which was intended to be renewed, and for the renewal of which the power was executed, was drawn by Thomas Q. and H. H. Roberts payable to James Percefal and by Percefal endorsed to Crutcher, and by Crutcher endorsed to the bank, in that case said power only authorized said attorneys to renew said note in the same manner and in the same order of endorsement, and that a note afterwards drawn by the same makers, payable to Crutcher, and so accepted by the agent, James T. Pendleton, and by said Pendleton, agent as aforesaid, endorsed to Percefal, was not such a renewal as came within the limits and extent of his power, and that such an act, as relates to Crutcher, was void. The court overruled this motion, and at the instance of the plaintiffs, instructed the jury directly to the contrary. The jury found for the plaintiffs below, and to reverse the judgment this writ of error is prosecuted presenting the propriety of this decision as the principal question. We can not conceive that any other construction can be placed on this letter of attorney, than that it did not authorize the making of a new note, or the doing of any other act than renewing the old one, and that the agents could not, under it, subject the principals to any greater liability than they had previously incurred. If the responsibility laid upon Crutcher by this endorsement, was less, or no greater than what it formerly was made by his own act on the original note, we might not deem it of any importance whether the agent had or had not changed his position as endorser. The question, then, must essentially rest upon this inquiry, whether the attitude of Crutcher on the new note was rendered more perilous than he himself had made it. We conceive it was, and that this change of attitude was what the agent, by the terms of the power, was not authorized to make. It is true, it appeared in proof that both Crutcher and Percefal were endorsers merely for the accommodation of the Messrs. Roberts, and that no consideration passed between them. If such accommodation endorsers stood as mere co-sureties, and one would be entitled to contribution against the other, in case of the insolvency of the principal, then the instruction might be supported. But this question has been investigated and decided, at the present term, in the case of Reed v. Hixon, and it is there held that endorsers on a commercial instrument, for the accommodation of the drawer, after they have paid and taken up the bill, have the same recourse as those who endorse in a fair course of trade. It therefore follows, that Crutcher, in his original attitude, could have recovered the whole amount of this debt against Percefal, if he had paid it, and that by the change made by his agent, his case is reversed, and he could not recover against Percefal; but would be subject to pay the amount to Percefal, in case he had paid the note. And although this was done by his agent, it was incumbent on the plaintiffs below to see that the authority was pursued, and that the agent acted within it. We, therefore, conceive that the court below erred in refusing to give the instruction asked by the plaintiff in error, and that it ought to have been given to the extent required. *3  2 Litt. Rep. 174. The judgment must, therefore be reversed with costs, and the verdict set aside, and the cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Crutcher v. Bank of Kentucky 4 Litt. 436, 14 Ky. 436, 1822 WL 1833 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
