(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 33,  21 Ky. 33 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1496 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wilson's Adm'r. v. Bowen. May 31, 1827. *1 Pleading. Verdict. Evidence. ERROR TO THE HENDERSON CIRCUIT; ALNEY McLEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 18(2) 228 Judgment 228I Nature and Essentials in General 228k18 Pleadings to Sustain Judgment 228k18(2) k. Sufficiency of Pleadings. Most Cited  Cases If in a declaration on a covenant one of the breaches alleged is ill assigned, and the verdict is general, the judgment cannot stand. Judgment 228 k 665 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k665 k. Identity of Persons in General. Most Cited  Cases In an action on a covenant to hold plaintiff harmless for any sum of money which is or may become due or owing to a certain firm on account of the purchase of a certain steamboat, it is error to admit in evidence judgments in favor of another firm, where it does not appear that they were on an indebtedness due the former firm or were for money due for the purchase of the boat. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of covenant; and a verdict and judgment were rendered, in the court below, in favor of the defendants in error, who were plaintiffs below. The first errors assigned, question the sufficiency of the breaches in the declaration. The covenant declared on, is not made part of the record, and we have to judge of its stipulations by what is recited in the declaration; and testing the breaches by this, we can not say that there is a single one well assigned. It does not appear that any breach comes within the letter or spirit of the covenant, and for this cause the judgment can not be supported. For if but one breach is ill assigned, and the verdict is gneral, it is, according to well settled law, sufficient to reverse the judgment; much more so when there is not one good one. If one of several breaches be ill, a general verdict is insufficient, and judgment shall be arrested. We have not thought it necessary to recite the breaches, because they are so badly assigned, and so full of useless repetitions, that the recital of them, or reasons showing why they are bad, could be of no service as a precedent, and the plaintiffs below must find it more to their interest to file a new declaration than to attempt to amend the old. Declaration held insufficient, and plaintiff advised to begin with a new, rather than amend old declaration. But there is a question or two presented on the evidence which may arise again in the court below, on a new declaration and trial thereon, which it becomes necessary to notice, especially as it may shed some light on the sufficiency of the breaches. One of the stipulations recited is, "that the intestate of the defendant below, covenanted against all actions, suits, attachments, judgments, costs and damages, which might be instituted or recovered for the non-payment of any sum or sums of money due and owing, or which may be due and owing to Prentiss and Bakewell, or their representatives or assigns, by the owners of the steamboat Henderson, for and on account of the purchase of the said steamboat Henderson. *2 So far as we can understand the breach attempted to be assigned of this stipulation, the plaintiffs below allege, that Prentiss and Bakewell had sued them, the plaintiffs, on two large notes in the Henderson circuit court. On the trial, the plaintiffs offered in evidence two judgments of that court, and notes on which they were founded, rendered since this suit was brought, each for large sums. The admission of these judgments was objected to, and the objection overruled, and the judgments admitted The notes on which the judgments were founded, appear to be executed by Wilson, Bowen & Co. to Prentiss & Bakewell:. The judgments were rendered in favor of the firm of Prentiss & Bakewell against William R. Bowen, Samuel A. Bowen, (the two plaintiffs below,) Robert Speed, Obadiah Smith, and Bennett Marshall, surviving partners of Wilson, Bowen and Co. Evidence held inadmissible, because not shewn to be relevant. It nowhere appears, either from the pleadings or evidence in this cause, that Wilson, Bowen & Co. were the owners of the steamboat Henderson, or that the money was due to Prentiss & Bakewell for the purchase of the boat; all which was indubitably necessary, before the plaintiffs below could be entitled, according to the express stipulations of the covenant, to make the amount of their judgments a charge against the defendant. Thus nakedly presented, the judgments were improperly admitted. We place this point wholly upon the relevancy of the notes and judgment, or the want of any averment or proof that these notes or judgments have anything to do with the covenant declared on. From anything apparent in the record their relevancy may be shown hereafter; but until this is shown, we deem it improper to go farther, and decide upon the extent of liability incurred by the intestate of the plaintiff in error, in consequence of these judgments which appear to have been a considerable question in the court below. The judgment must be reversed, and the verdict be set aside with costs, and the cause must be remanded, with leave to the plaintiffs below to file a new declaration on their original writ, if they shall choose so to do. Mandate. Crittenden for plaintiffs; Mayes, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Wilson's Adm'r v. Bowen 5 T.B.Mon. 33, 21 Ky. 33, 1827 WL 1496 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
