(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 115,  20 Ky. 115 (Ky.),  1827 WL 2588 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jarman v. Davis, Davis v. Ballard. Jan. 25, 1826. *1 Specific Performance. Title. Obligations. Accord and Satisfaction. Conditional Decrees. Equity. Jurisdiction. WRITS OF ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEO. SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Payment 294 k 18 294 Payment 294I Requisites and Sufficiency 294k15 Payment by Bills or Notes 294k18 k. Bill, Acceptance, or Note of Third Person. Most  Cited Cases A creditor, holding the note of his debtor, does not waive his right to sue on the note by taking the note of another for the same demand, without any agreement to discharge the former. Specific Performance 358 k 95 358 Specific Performance 358III Good Faith and Diligence 358k95 k. Sufficiency of Title of Vendor. Most Cited Cases A specific performance of a contract for the sale of land will not be enforced, unless the vendor can make the vendee a good and indefeasible title. Specific Performance 358 k 95 358 Specific Performance 358III Good Faith and Diligence 358k95 k. Sufficiency of Title of Vendor. Most Cited Cases A vendor, applying for specific execution of a contract for the sale of land, must show that he has such a title as he covenanted to convey. Specific Performance 358 k 131 358 Specific Performance 358IV Proceedings and Relief 358k131 k. Judgment or Decree. Most Cited Cases A decree directing one party to pay on a certain day, on condition of the other surrendering the land, without ordering a surrender, or reserving to the court to determine on the performance, was held to be erroneous. Equity 150 k 423 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k423 k. Nature and Extent of Relief in General. Most Cited Cases A condition in a decree by which its execution is left to the election of one of the parties, so as to enable him to hold his adversary in suspense as long as he chooses, or by which it is a matter of speculation whether or not compliance with the condition may be performed after a certain date, is objectionable. Equity 150 k 427(2) 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k427 Conformity to Pleadings, Proofs, and Findings 150k427(2) k. Conformity to Prayer. Most Cited  Cases Where specific relief only is prayed, the court will not go beyond the prayer. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] Statement. Davis sold to Ballard a tract of land at the price of $7,000, $1,000 of which was paid 1st March, 1819; $2,000 more was to be paid 1st September, 1819, at which time Ballard was to execute his two notes, each for $2,000, payable annually. *2 The contract was entered into and reduced to writing on the 23d day of November, 1818, in the form of an article of agreement, sealed by the parties, in which it was stipulated, that upon Ballard's paying the $2,000 due on the 1st day of September, 1819, and executing his notes for the remaining $4,000, as stipulated, Davis should afterwards, to-wit: on the 10th of September, 1819, deliver full possession of the land, and execute a conveyance with general warranty and a relinquishment of his wife's dower. Possession of a small portion was delivered in March, 1819, according to stipulation, but the full possession was not to be delivered till the 10th of September of the same year. Articles of agreement between Ballard, the purchaser, and Davis, the seller of a tract of land. The payment due on the 1st March, 1819, was made; but Ballard having failed to make the payment, due on the 1st day of September, 1819, Davis brought his action at law on the article of agreement, and recovered judgment for the $2,000, with interest. Ballard failing in the payments, Davis recovers judgment at law. To enjoin this judgment Ballard filed this bill, setting forth that after the debt became due, it was agreed that Davis should take a certain John Jarman for the $2,000, and discharge him; that Jarman owed him the same amount, and he was to credit Jarman, and Davis to credit him to the amount; that no writing passed between him and Davis, but that Davis and Jarman entered into a writing to the following effect, omitting its formal parts: Ballard's bill for injunction. "The said Jarman, for and in consideration for the use of $2,000, due said Davis from said Jarman, doth hereby covenant and agree that said Davis shall live at the place he now lives on, for the use of said money, except and provided, that if said Davis and George Shackleford shall trade, then said $2,000 will be considered paid, and said Davis, shall allow said Jarman a reasonable rent from thence to the end of the year; and said Davis doth agree to let said Jarman have as much land about this new house as there is in a piece of tobacco ground, which James Ballard now has in cultivation." This writing is sealed by both Davis and Jarman. He charges that Davis still holds the possession, and prays that this agreement between himself, Davis and Jarman may be enforced, and that Davis may be compelled to receive and rely upon Jarman for the amount of his judgment, and for general relief. To this bill he made Davis alone defendant. Jarman and Davis, their agreement referred to in Ballard's bill. Davis filed his answer, denying that he ever agreed to accept of the responsibility or undertaking of Jarman, and release Ballard, or ever had done so; alleges that he had been told by both Ballard and Jarman, that Ballard had bought the land for Jarman, and that any arrangement he might make with Jarman, about the possession, would be acquiesced in by Ballard; hence he had entered into the foregoing writing with Jarman about the possession, which in its terms had extended to only one year; that Jarman had not paid the money, and hence he had sued and recovered a judgment against Ballard for it. *3 Davis' answer. He then makes his answer in the nature of a cross bill, and thereto makes Jarman also a party, and prays that if he should be compelled to release Ballard and take Jarman, that he may have a decree against Jarman for the amount of his judgment. He also alleges that he has a good title to the land; that the residue of the purchase money is due, and prays for a decree against Ballard, specifically enforcing the entire contract. Davis makes his answer a cross bill against Ballard and Jarman, defendants. Ballard and Jarman united in an answer to the answer of Davis; admit the land was purchased by Ballard for Jarman; charge Davis with still retaining the possession; Jarman contends that, by the construction of the writing, Davis can not recover the two thousand dollars of him while he keeps possession; they both insist that the rent far exceeds the interest of the money, and pray that the rent may be discounted against the $2,000 enjoined. They also resist the specific execution of the contract in favor of Davis, and charge his title to be defective. Answers to the cross bill. The court below decreed a perpetual injunction in favor of Ballard, against Davis, as to the judgment for $2,000, and decreed that sum without interest in favor of Davis against Ballard; said nothing about the specific execution of the contract, and of course, refused it, in silence. Decree of the circuit court. To reverse this decree against Jarman he prosecuted his writ of error with supersedeas against Davis, and Davis has also brought his writ of error against Jarman and Ballard, and of course the whole decision between the parties, in all its bearings, is now before us. The decree against Jarman, in favor of Davis, can not be sustained, even if its conditional terms were the only objection. It directs the payment to be made on a day certain, on condition of Davis surrendering the possession of the land at that period. That condition must, of course, be ascertained by the clerk before he issued execution, instead of being ascertained by the court itself. Indeed the court has not decreed that he shall surrender it, but has left that matter to his own election. If he did not surrender by the time, it might be a matter of speculation upon the terms of the decree, whether he was barred of an opportunity of doing it ever afterwards, and thus his decree was to be of no use to him, or whether he could, at any moment thereafter, surrender it at pleasure and take his execution, and thus hold his adversary in suspense as long as he chose. Condition in a decree, that one party pay, on the other surrendering possession of the land, without ordering a surrender, or reserving it to the court to determine on the performance, disapproved. But this is by no means the most formidable objection to this decree. Davis has brought the merits of the whole contract on his side before the court, by his claim for specific performance. To entitle himself to this, he ought to have shewn either a clear title, or such a title as he had professed to sell, especially when the goodness of his title is put in issue by his adversary. This he has failed to shew, and not a scrap of title is produced. This is conclusive against his claim for a specific performance, and it remains as an obstacle in his way to a decree for any part of the money. His right to a part, to-wit, the two thousand dollars, must depend on the same principles as his right to the whole; and the sum for which he has obtained a decree is a part of the price. *4 Where a bill claims a specific performance, and the purchaser resists it. and denies the title, he must shew a clear title, or such as he professed to sell. The same answer may be given to his prayer for an enforcement of a lien against the land. His right to do this, must equally depend on his right to enforce the contract. For if the contract be one which can not be enforced, he is not entitled to the aid of a court of equity in effectuating any remedy in its favor. It is true, he has a writing on Jarman for this $2,000, but on it he may be left to his remedy at law. This conclusion relieves us from settling the construction of that instrument, as well as determining whether he ought to receive interest and account for rents, during his possession under it, or only to lose the interest as the court below has decided. If the seller can not have specific performance, he can not have the aid of a court of equity in effecting any remedy under it. The claim set up by Jarman, in his answer for the rents, in resisting Davis' decree, if he has any title to them, will not hereafter be barred, by any decree rendered in his favor against Davis. Dismissal of bill, in such case, wll not bar an action at law, if the party have right. We are next to consider the bill of Ballard brought for relief against Davis. It is clear that this claim can not be sustained by any thing short of a positive agreement on the part of Davis to accept Jarman and release Ballard, and an acceptance of the obligation of Jarman in lieu thereof. On this point the proof is not sufficient to overrule the denial in Davis' answer. Jarman himself, who is the only witness that speaks expressly on this point, although he states that Davis was to look to him, will not state that he promised to discharge Ballard. It was competent for Davis to take the obligation of Jarman, for the same demand, without releasing Ballard, and if the new undertaker should not comply, to resort to Ballard; and in the present case he has done no more. The decree for a perpetual injunction can not, therefore, be sustained; and Davis must be permitted to keep the advantage which he has obtained at law. An obligee may take another obligation from others for the same demand, and unless taken in lieu of the former, both will be obligatory. It has been a point of some difficulty whether Ballard ought not to be permitted to avail himself of a deduction, either for the rents or interest in discharge of so much of this judgment, because of Davis' continued possession of the land, before his injunction should be dissolved. But upon an inspection of his bill, it is not one of its objects to obtain such deduction, and to grant it to him would be a relief which he has not desired, and therefore, the dismission of his present plant will not bar any future proceedings asserting that claim. His decree must, therefore, be reversed, and his injunction must be dissolved with damages, and his bill be dismissed with costs. *5 Relief not granted, because not prayed. Both decrees reversed, and the causes to be remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill and cross bill with costs respectively. Jarman must recover the costs of his writ of error, and Davis of his, in this court. Turner and Breck, for Jarman; Caperton, for Davis. Ky.App. 1826. Jarman v. Davis 4 T.B.Mon. 115, 20 Ky. 115, 1827 WL 2588 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
