(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 133,  17 Ky. 133 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1509 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. FIELD v. Ross' Ex'rs, &c. and E Converso. Oct. 16, 1824. *1 ??r, Decrees Interlocutory and Final, Absent Defendants. ??EAL FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT; JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 421 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k421 k. Interlocutory Decree. Most Cited Cases Where a decree settled the whole controversy, and directs the payment of costs and the sale of land, it was held to be a final decree, from which time the seven years allowed absent defendants to come in and answer was to be computed.  A subsequent decree, directing and approving the sale, is to be deemed merely a decretal order. Equity 150 k 446 150 Equity 150XI Bill of Review 150k444 Grounds 150k446 k. Errors and Irregularities. Most Cited  Cases A bill of review will lie for errors appearing on the face of the decree. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. ??ewis Field filed his bill, stating that as heir at law ??aniel Field, he had long since recovered a judg??t on a bond executed by Meredith Price and Ben??in Pope, his security, against William Pope, who ?? the executor of said Meredith Price, and also ??nst said Benjamin Pope, the security; that Price, ??is will had directed that so much of his land, lo??d in the county of Jefferson, should be sold, as ??ld be necessary to pay his debts, at six months' ??it, by public auction; that the said Price, before ??eath had three tracts of land, one of 400 acres, one ??000, and the third of 2,941 acres, entered and sur??d in Jefferson; that the executors of said Price had ?? the surveys to the register's office, and believing ?? the grants had issued therefor, they advertised ??sold at public auction the 1,000 and 2,941 acre ??s, according to the will, and Benjamin Pope be?? the purchaser at L620, and the said executors ??eyed to him the lands, and then he conveyed the said lands to Worden Pope, in trust, to sell and di?? charge the aforesaid judgment; but that David Ross ha?? obtained from Elizabeth Price, widow of the deceden?? who was named executrix in the will, but had not qua?? ified, an assignment of the plats and certificates, frau?? ulently, and had obtained the patents in his name, an?? that there was no other fund out of which the jud??ment aforesaid could be satisfied. Allegations of the bill. He named all the executors who were named in t?? will, except two, who were dead, defendants as well ?? David Ross and Worden Pope, and prayed that t?? land might be subjected to sale, and that David Ro?? might be compelled to convey his title to the p?? chaser. This bill was filed on the 21st day of May 1810, a?? on the same day Worden Pope entered his appearan?? and admitted the jurisdiction of the court, and that ?? held the conveyance from Benjamin Pope for the p?? pose of satisfying the said judgment first, and then ?? other debt of L100 to another individual, and also p?? fessed his readiness to sell, for the payment of the de?? if the court should so decree. *2 Worden Pope's answer filed 21st May, 1810, same day with the bill. Three days after this bill was filed, an order of p?? lication was awarded against David Ross and El?? beth Price. Order of publication against David Ross and E. Price. On the 8th of June following, process of subpo?? was awarded to the July term following, which was?? turned executed on Worden and William Pope; ?? proof was produced at the next term, that the orde?? publication had been inserted eight successive we?? and the cause was continued. Process executed on Worden and Wm. Pope. Advertisement of the order of publication for eight weeks. At the next succeeding term in the month of Nov??ber, the following decree was entered, omitting its ?? mal parts, and recitals of service, publication, &c.?? "It is decreed and ordered that the complainan?? cover against the said executor the sum of four ?? dred and seventy-five pounds ten shillings, the da??es, and two hundred and sixty pounds of tobacco, sixteen shillings and six pence, the costs, for w?? judgment in the bill mentioned was rendered, wit?? terest on said L475 10s. at the rate of five per ce?? per annum, from the sixth day of March, in the ?? 1789, until the time of payment, and the costs by?? in this suit expended; and it is decreed and ord?? that the 400 acres, the 2,941 acres, and 1,000 acr?? land in the bill mentioned, be sold at the court-house in Louisville, on the second Monday in January next, to the highest bidder, at three months' credit, upon taking bond from the purchaser, with good security, for the payment of the purchase money, payable to the commissioners hereafter named, or any two of them, to be applied to the discharge of this decree, and the further order of this court. And it is further decreed and ordered, that William F. Simrall, John Evans and Hen??ry Duncan, or any two of them be appointed commissioners to make the sale aforesaid, and to carry this de??cree into effect, and that they make report of their proceedings to next court." Decree for the sale of the land and costs, November term, 1816. The commissioners made report to the next term, and at that term, to wit, on the 21st day of February 1811, the court noticed the return of the report, and approved thereof, and directed a credit for the amount to be entered on the former decree; that the executors be acquitted from the amount made; that the defendants should convey to the complainant, who was the purchaser; and unless these conveyances were made ??mmediately, that commissioners should convey. The conveyance was accordingly reported. An execution was directed for the residue. Report of commissioners returned and approved, sale confirmed, conveyances directed and executed, and execution awarded for the residue of the decree, February 21, 1811. At an adjourned term of the same court, in the year 1818, on the 14th of February, a petition was present??ed to the court, in the names of certain persons, styled ??he heirs, devisees and executors of David Ross, the ?? defendant, sworn to by another person, who stated he was their agent, praying that the decree might be set ??side and opened, and that they might be permitted to ??answer, as non-residents, according to the act of assem??ly; which was resisted by the complainant, but grant??d by the court. *3 Petition for opening the decree, by nonresident defendants, presented and admitted, February 14, 1818. They thereupon immediately filed a demurrer to the ??ill, which was also excepted to as improper, but was ??llowed to be filed; and on hearing, the court over??uled it, and on application of the petitioners, on the ??ffidavit of the agent, who stated that Ross's heirs, de??isees and executors, were all absent in Virginia, and ??hat he never knew of the suit or decree until a few ??ays before, and he believed none of the defendants ??new of it, the court gave time until next term, to file ??n answer. Demurrer to bill filed and overruled, and time given until next term, to answer. Before this postponement, however, the counsel for the petitioners, suggested that one of the petitioners was an infant, and prayed the appointment of a guardian ad litem, which was granted, and the guardian immediately answered. This was excepted to on the part of the complainants, particularly because there was no proof of infancy. Guardian ad litem appointed for one of the absent defendants, and his answer admitted. The counsel of the complainants then tendered an?? answer for the rest, which was sworn to by the said?? agent; and in the same affidavit, he professed his ignorance of the decree, until about thirty days previous, and his belief of the ignorance of all the petitioners. This answer the court rejected, and gave time until the next term. Answer of the other defendants offered, sworn to by agent, rejected. At the next term, the petitioners answered, and filed a copy of the will of David Ross. The court set aside the former sale, and directed the land again to be sold and the complainant's debt to be first paid; next, payment for the improvements made thereon, assessed by commissioners to be made, and then the residue to g?? to the executors of Ross. Answers admitted and new decree. From this decree each party appealed. The defendants below assign errors in the original decree, which?? the court in part affirmed, as well as in the last decree and the complainant assigns errors in permitting th?? defendants to come in and be heard at all, in the tim?? and in the manner they were allowed, as well as in s?? much of the last decree as vacates the former sale. (1) Before we notice any errors assigned by the defendants in the original decree, or any other exceptio?? to the final decree, it is proper we should first dispose o?? the question, whether the defendants could be admi??ted, when and as they were; for if they were imprope??ly let in??. and ought not to have been permitted to dis??turb the ancient decree in the court below, it seem?? clear that they ought not to question it here, or be a?? lowed to have the benefit of the last decree. If the la??ter proceedings were irregular, the merits of the firs?? decree ought not to be supposed to be before the cour?? nor can the latter decree stand, whether it be or be n?? equitable. *4 (1) Where an ancient decree has been improperly opened in the circuit court, it can not be questioned in this court, by the party who opened it, nor can he have the benefit of the subsequent decree. (2) Whether the time was or was not out for the a??pearance of the petitioners, must depend essentiall?? upon the inquiry, whether the decree which we hav?? recited, of December, 1810, was or was not final; or ?? that of February, 1811, to be considered as the final decree? If the former, the seven years allowed for an appearance, by the statute had expired; if the latter, the appearance offered and made was within the term of seven years, by four or five days. (2) A decree ascertaining the complainant's demand, directing a sale and ordering the payment of costs, is final, and from its date the seven years' allowed absent defendants to answer, is to be computed, and not from the orders confirming the sale, and directing and - approving the conveyance. These are only decretal orders, in execution of what had been before determined. Upon examination of the decree of 1810, it will be readily seen, that it settled the whole controversy, the costs not excepted. It ascertained the complainant's demand and subjected the land to it by sale. The sale, it is true, was not executed; but this was only a ministerial act, to effectuate what was decreed. The impropriety of treating decrees as interlocutory only which leave only an act or acts to be done, to effectuate them was noticed by this court in the case of Shelby and Roberts v. Smith's heirs and executor, 2 Marsh. 504, and was decided to be final, in the cases of  Larue v. Larue, 2 Litt. Rep. 258, and Watson v. Thomas, Litt. S. C. 248. The two last cases we deem in point, as to the principle which ought here to govern; and they settle the matter, that this decree is final, and could not be reached by a petition and answer; and the decree of 1811 can only be deemed a decretal order, to effectuate what the court had before determined. (3) It has been urged that the impropriety of the first decree is apparent on its face. If so, it must be left to revision by writ of error or bill of review, and not in the present form. (3) Impropriety on the face of a decree against an absent defendant, is no cause for opening it and allowing an answer; error or a bill of review is the remedy. (4) It has also been contended, that as the order of publication was not advertised two months, but only eight weeks, as heretofore held necessary by this court, it was no service of process, and that the original decree is void on that account. Whether it be void or voidable, it cannot be contested in this way; nor is there any necessity of doing so, if void; for, in that case, the rights of the defendants cannot be prejudiced by it, and the legal title is with them still. (4) That the order of publication was not regularly advertised, is no cause for opening a decree against absent defendants, and permitting their answer after limitation expired. *5 (5) It has been insisted, that the time expired, even if the decree of 1811 be taken as the final decree; because the court gave time to answer after the seven years had expired, which could not be done. We have nor thought it necessary to decide this question, nor the numerous other questions presented in the record, because the point decided renders it unnecessary to say more. (5) Quere-- Can the court, after an absent defendant has petitioned to open a decree, filed his demurrer and it has been overruled, give time to file the answer, which will not expire until after the limitation of seven years will be complete. All proceedings, therefore, including the appearance of the defendant, and every subsequent act or decree, must be reversed and held for naught, with costs against the devisees and heirs of Ross, as to both appeals. Sharp for Field; Bibb and Crittenden, for Ross's executors, &c. Ky.App. 1824. Field v. Ross' Ex'rs 1 T.B.Mon. 133, 17 Ky. 133, 1824 WL 1509 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
