(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 204,  19 Ky. 204 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1270 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Salter & Stapp v. Richardson. Apr. 19, 1826. *1 Replevin Bond. Interest. Variance. Practice. Process. Abatement. Statutes. Currency. Construction. Executions. ERROR TO THE GARRARD CIRCUIT; JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 158(2) 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k158 Stay of Execution 161k158(2) k. Bond or Other Security. Most Cited  Cases Where the declaration in stating the bond payable three months after date says nothing of interest, and oyer is given of a bond bearing interest from date, the variance is fatal. Payment 294 k 12(1) 294 Payment 294I Requisites and Sufficiency 294k12 Particular Kinds of Money or Currency 294k12(1) k. Silver and Gold. Most Cited  Cases In an action on a replevin bond, taken under an execution, indorsed for bank paper, the nominal amount may be recovered in specie, though paper only was collectible by execution. Action 13 k 30 13 Action 13II Nature and Form 13k29 Forms of Action at Common Law 13k30 k. Distinctions as to Form. Most Cited  Cases Debt is a proper form of action on a replevin bond. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of debt on a replevin bond. Action of debt on a replevin bond. The defendant in the court below, craved oyer of the bond and demurred, and the plaintiff joined in demurrer. The court overruled the demurrer, and a writ of inquiry was prosecuted and judgment rendered for the plaintiff, to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted. Demurrer to declaration overruled. It was urged by the defendant below, that a replevin bond would not support an action of debt. This position is wholly untenable. For notwithstanding a replevin bond has a higher dignity than ordinary bonds, and has the force of a judgment, and may be enforced by execution, yet it has also the properties of a bond at common law, and gives the holder thereof an election of remedies, either to pursue it by execution, or to commence thereon a new action. Debt lies on a replevin bond, tho' execution might issue on it; And-- Indeed instances are not wanting in the adjudicated cases of the courts of Virginia, where actions of debt have been supported on such bonds, after they had been adjudged invalid as replevin bonds, and execution thereon refused, thus sustaining the doctrine, that where the holder was not entitled to the remedy by execution, he still had the common law remedy by action. There are cases of the action being maintained when the bond was invalid under the statute and would not authorize an execution. But, on granting oyer of the bond, some variances appear between the bond exhibited, and the declaration, which must be held fatal. The date of the bond is 1823, and the declaration sets out a bond dated and delivered in the same month, in 1821, which is a substantial variance. The bond stipulates the payment of a sum, in three months, with interest from the date, and the declaration recites a bond, stipulating the payment of the same sum, in three months, without naming interest. As the interest is a part of the stipulated sum due on the day of payment, it becomes a substantial part of the contract, and increases the sum to be paid on that day, leaving it out, therefore, in the declaration, makes the bond less than it really is, and such a variance has always been held fatal, as the judgment, if rendered, could not be pleaded in bar to an action on the true bond. For these causes, the demurrer ought to have been sustained. *2 Where the declaration in stating the bond payable three months after date, says nothing of interest, and oyer is given of a bond bearing interest from the date, the variance is fatal. But as the plaintiff below may have the opportunity of correcting these errors on the return of the cause, it behooves us to notice one or two other points, which appear in the cause, and may occasion future embarrassment, or again occur on another hearing. Where the cause is remanded for further proceedings, such points decided as may probably again occur. The writ, as to one of the defendants, was returned, not found. No further notice was taken of him, and judgment was rendered against the rest, leaving the cause still to be prosecuted to a several judgment, by an alias against him. Where the process was returned not found, judgment could not be taken against those on whom it was executed, tho' they appeared to the action. See Act of 12th Jan., 1825. Page 178. Before the plaintiff is permitted to proceed against the rest, he ought to be compelled to pursue process against the one not found till he is taken, or until the case shall be abated as to him by a proper return. On the trial of the writ of enquiry, the counsel for the defendant below, offered in evidence the execution, under which the replevin bond was taken, endorsed pursuant to the act of assembly, that notes on the bank of Kentucky or on the bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky would be taken in discharge of the whole execution, and tendered proof, that such notes, on the day of payment, were only worth half as much as gold or silver, and thereby attempted to scale the sum to be recovered to the real value of the notes. The court below rejected this evidence and the defendant excepted, and now presents the same question for our revision. The act regulating such endorsements on executions directs the sheriff to be governed by it, if he receives the money, and if the debt is replevied to allow the defendant only three months in the replevin bond, instead of two years, which was to be allowed if the endorsement was not made, and if execution again issued on the bond, the clerk was directed to renew the endorsement on all subsequent executions on the bond. According to previous decisions of this court, if the plaintiff comes into the terms tendered to him in the act, he is bound to some extent by his acceptance of them, and will be compelled, if the debt is replevied, and he pursues the replevin bond by execution, to adhere to these terms throughout, and accept paper for his debt. Where the plaintiff endorsed his execution receivable in currency, and a replevin at the shorter date was therefore taken, he was so far bound by it that payment of the bond could not be coerced by execution but in such currency. But ought these terms to be imposed upon him, if he abandons an execution on the bond and pursues any other remedy which the law places in his power? We conceive not. *3 Otherwise, if plaintiff resort to a new acton. We can not consider the endorsement and the replevin in pursuance thereof, a contract between plaintiff and defendant. Endorsement for currency, and execution of the replevin bond is not a contract between the parties. If it be one, it possesses but little merit on the part of the defendant; for what consideration does the plaintiff receive for this loss of half his debt? Why simply this, a license to recover the remaining half instead of the whole, after his debtor had refused payment, and resisted it to judgment and execution, instead of waiting a replevin of two years. But-- Terms of contract or of law so hard as these ought not to be imposed upon a creditor in a court of justice, to a greater extent than their letter, notwithstanding he may have once, in the hope of getting half his debt, been willing to sacrifice the remaining half, and has endorsed for that purpose. If it be, plaintiff is not bound after defendant fails in the punctual payment of the bond, but he may then decline the execution, and resort to his action. It must have been known to the legislature that two remedies existed in law to recover all such replevin bonds--the one by execution, the other by an entirely new action. The first of these remedies the legislature subjected to a loss of half the debt by a renewal of the endorsement, the second they did not subject to the same penalty, and therefore, we ought not to do it. If, after they had directed the same endorsement to be made on the execution which issued on the bond, they had added that the same endorsement should follow the bond through any action of debt, or any other remedy to which the plaintiff might resort for a recovery thereof, then there would be some propriety in contending that the plaintiff should be held in this action to the hard terms to which he had once acceded. But this they omitted to do, and there are strong reasons for that omission. The object of the act was evidently a procrastination of the recovery of the debt for two years, unless the creditor would consent to take the half. If he abandoned the immediate recovery, and brought a new action on the bond, and then should omit the endorsement to take bank paper, he would have to wait according to the act, the three months for which the debt was first replevied, the time of a law suit, perhaps as long as this had been protracted, and then two years more for another replevin bond to run, before he could recover. The object of the act was the procrastination of the recovery of of the debt; this being attained without holding plaintiff to receive the currency on the bond, whether demanded by execution or action, is the better construction. It might, therefore, be readily foreseen that but few plaintiffs would take this tedious and circuitous route, and if they did they would be delayed longer than others, in any other course which they might take, and thus the intention of the act would be completely effectuated, without subjecting the creditor to the loss of half in any other course he might take. Hence he was not thus subjected. *4 We therefore, conclude, that the court below, did not err in not admitting the evidence and refusing to scale this demand. To this reasoning we may also add, that if the act had directed the sheriffs to take the replevin bonds, on executions so endorsed payable in the bank paper named in the endorsement, the nature of the demand would have been essentially changed, and plaintiffs would have been compelled to accept the value of such paper when due, and could have recovered no more than that amount in such an action as this. But instead of this, the act permits such bonds to retain on their face their gold and silver character, and thereby defendants must abide, when pursued in any other remedy than that by execution, which alone is affected by the act. That the bond is not directed to be taken payable in currency shews it was not designed to change the character of the demand. The judgment must, however, for the other reasons assigned be reversed, and the writ of enquiry be set aside, with costs, and the cause be remanded, for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Turner, for plaintiffs; Robertson, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Salter v. Richardson 3 T.B.Mon. 204, 19 Ky. 204, 1826 WL 1270 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
