(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 526,  9 Ky. 526 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1113 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Andrew Moore, &c. v. Lockitt's Heirs. Oct. 10, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 407(6) 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k407 Existence of or Resort to Other  Remedy 228k407(6) k. Excuse for Failure to Assert Legal Remedy.  Most Cited Cases Equity will not grant relief against a judgment in ejectment on the ground that plaintiff therein recovered more land than he was entitled to, where no excuse is shown why complainant did not apply to the court of law for relief. Judgment 228 k 426 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k422 Errors and Irregularities 228k426 k. Irregularities in Proceedings. Most Cited  Cases The failure to appoint commissioners under the occupying claimant law to assess the value of improvements made on land under a bona fide claim of title, in an action of ejectment, affords no ground for relief in equity against the ejectment judgment. Judgment 228 k 429 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k428 Defenses Not Interposed in Former Action 228k429 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The recovery of more land by the plaintiff in ejectment, on a trial at law, is no ground for relief in equity. Equity has no jurisdiction unless the verdict was obtained by fraud or surprise, under circumstances which would justify the chancellor's interposition. Judgment 228 k 645 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(A) Judgments Conclusive in General 228k643 Nature of Action or Other Proceeding 228k645 k. Actions at Law and Suits in Equity. Most  Cited Cases Decrees in equity on matters within their jurisdiction are conclusive, in the same manner as judgments at law. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases The failure to appoint commissioners to ascertain the rents, etc., on rendering a judgment in ejectment, is no ground for relief in equity;  a court of law being competent to afford relief on application to it. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a suit in chancery enjoining a judgment in ejectment for land. The original bill complains that the judgment in ejectment was recovered against the complainant, Lockitt, by Moore and January, the defendants, on a patent in the name of January, part of which was conveyed to Moore, and that he, the complainant, held an interest in it by virtue of a purchase of the same claim from Nathaniel Evans as agent for Moore--and he sets up the purchase. He also alleges that he claimed the same land by virtue of a purchase of an adverse claim in the name of John Mosby. But when the judgment in ejectment was rendered no commissioners were appointed under the act concerning occupying claimants of land--and finally that the judgment in ejectment recovered too much land, and took in a part that had previously been conveyed by the defendant, Moore, to Lockitt, the complainant. The bill then refers to a record of a suit in chancery between the same parties in the same court. An injunction was granted and a decree finally rendered in favor of the complainant. And on an appeal the decree is questioned. It is deemed unnecessary to travel into the defense made in the original bill, as it is clear from the record of the former suit in chancery, referred to between the same parties, a decree in which was rendered by this court at the spring term, 1810--2 Bibb, 67: the purchase from Moore through the intervention of Evans as an agent, was made the subject of controversy, and there was finally settled, as well as the right of the complainant to the claim of Mosby therein set up. This decision according to well settled principles was conclusive, and the complainant could not be entitled to his injunction or any relief on the same equity. The failure to appoint commissioners under the occupying claimant law furnished no ground for relief in equity. The complainant could still apply to the court of law for relief, and no reason is shown why he did not apply there. In like manner the recovery of more land in the ejectment than the plaintiffs at law were entitled to, was a legal controversy, and the defendant at law, now complainant, might and ought to have guarded himself there and defeated the recovery, and could not retry the matter in equity unless he could show strong reasons for his neglect to do so, or that the verdict was obtained by fraud and surprise, under such circumstances as would authorise the chancellor to decree him a new trial at law. This he has failed to do, and in these respects the bill entitles him to no relief. But the complainant filed an amended bill, wherein he sets out a conveyance from Littleberry Mosby of part of an entry in the name of John Mosby, insist on the validity of that entry, and on that ground prays relief against the adverse claim of Moore and January. Although he set out a purchase in his original bill of the same claim, and that purchase was there decided against him, yet the purchase he shows in his amended bill is a conveyance subsequent to the date of the former decree, and it might be a question of some moment whether he would not be entitled to relief on that ground. But this we have no thought is necessary to decide. The answers of the defendants not only rely on the former decree, but put him upon the complete proof of his claim. He has not exhibited either the survey or patent in the names of John or Littleberry Mosby, nor has he shown how Littleberry Mosby became entitled to the claim in the name of John. Nor has he adduced any proof establishing the calls of John Mosby's entry, except in admission of the beginning corner. He, therefore, could not be entitled to any relief. The decree of the court below is, therefore, reversed with costs, and the cause must be remanded, with directions to that court to dissolve the injunction and dismiss the bill with costs. *2 The merits of an equity once decided on by a court of competent jurisdiction can never be retried (except appellately) between the same parties. Commissioners to ascertain rents, &c., not having been appointed on rendition of judgment in ejectment gives the chancellor no jurisdiction, the remedy is exclusively at law, by an order nunc pro tunc. That a plaintiff in ejectment has recovered more land than he is entitled to, is a matter triable at law, and can not be made a question in chancery, unless strong reasons are shewn. A complainant on whom the issue is thrown by defendant's answers, can not obtain relief, unless he makes out his case very clearly. Hardin and Haggin for pltffs, Wickliffe for defts. Ky.App. 1820. Moore v. Lockitt's Heirs 2 A.K.Marsh. 526, 9 Ky. 526, 1820 WL 1113 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
