(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 488,  20 Ky. 488 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1468 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lawless v. Blakley's Administrator, Blakey's Adm'r v. Lawless. Apr. 26, 1827. *1 Equity. Jurisdiction. Usury. Answers. Onus Probandi. Compound Interest. Practice. CROSS APPEALS FROM WARREN CIRCUIT; H. P. BROADNAX, JUDGE. West Headnotes Usury 398 k 102(6) 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(B) Rights and Remedies of Parties 398k102 Recovery of Usury Paid 398k102(6) k. Form of Remedy. Most Cited  Cases Usury recovered on a judgment at law may be recovered back by bill in equity. Equity 150 k 186 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(B) Plea, Answer, and Disclaimer 150k177 Answer 150k186 k. Denials and Admissions. Most Cited  Cases Where defendant to a bill charging usury avers that he cannot recollect the payment of certain sums, the allegation of payment shall be taken as true. Interest 219 k 31 219 Interest 219II Rate 219k31 k. Computation of Rate in General. Most Cited Cases Payments made on a debt after it has been extinguished by previous payments draw interest from date of payment at the legal rate. Interest 219 k 59(1) 219 Interest 219III Time and Computation 219k59 Application of Partial Payments 219k59(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Partial payments must be applied so as not to compound interest. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement. This is a bill brought to settle the accounts for money lent and the usury received thereon, and praying a decree for the restoration of the usurious interest. The court below decreed in favor of the complainant, and each party has appealed. Part of the money was recovered from the complainants intestate, by a judgment, and it is contended for defendant, that the same money can not be recovered back by bill in equity. This court has already had occasion, fully to consider and settle this question in the case of  Pearce v. Headrick 3 Litt. Rep. 109. It is there held that such recovery is permissible. Money the borrower had given to pay, for usurious interest, recovered and collected at law, may be recovered back by bill in equity. The defendant contends that the court below has charged him with more usury that the proof will warrant. In answer to this we can not see that any proof was necessary, except the bill and his own answer. There (as is too frequently the case with defendants, charged with, and guilty of, usury), his memory fails him much. He can not recollect that certain sums were paid, and requires proof. He remembers accurately some payments in property, which was no doubt, not as satisfactory as money, and which he complains, were not equal in value to the price which he agreed to give, while the money payments are nearly all forgotten, although they are facts resting in his own knowledge; and moreover his own notes taken up by the complainants intestate, are presented to him as exhibits, and those notes given for usurious interest. On this point, it must be taken as true, from the bill and answer, that he did receive the interest of twenty-five per centum per annum, from the original loan of the money on the 23d of February, 1819, till the last note for usury of seventy-five dollars was given; and that note was evidently given for interest accruing in future, and not for time past, and the amount of that note has since been recovered with interest. That note is not in the record, and probably remains in the record at law, to which reference is had in the pleadings; but coming as near to the date of that note, as we are able to do by the evidence now before us, and fixing its date at a period not too late, and the amount decreed against the defendant, does not quite equal the excess of interest which he has received, and he therefore can not complain. *2 Usurers have bad memories of their usurious agreements and receipts of money on such contracts-- --Hence, it seems, where facts are directly charged in the bill, which must rest in the usurer's knowledge, and he can not recollect, the allegation shall be taken for true. But it is assigned for error, that the court below has decreed that he shall repay the greater part, which he has received, in paper of the bank of the Commonwealth, instead of liquidating the demand to specie. We do not approve of that part of the decree, and conceive that it ought not to have been rendered. But this error has operated not to his in jury, but the prejudice of his adversary. He admits that the paper of that bank was not equal to par. When charged with receiving some payments in an amended bill, he admits the charge, but says it was made in paper of the bank and not specie, This was matter of avoidance, alleged for his own easement, and he has failed to make any proof thereof, and yet he complains because the court has admitted the truth of this statement, and decreed him to restore that commodity in lieu of specie. This charge in his answer can not be taken as true. The notes which he held, required specie on their face, and he has failed to prove that he accepted the paper. The sum which he ought to restore, is at least equal to that amount in specie, and it is therefore impossible to say that this error operates to his prejudice. Where the usurer is charged with receiving the amount of notes calling for dollars, and he admits he received the amount of them in paper currency of inferior value, he must prove it was paper. --Decree for the usurer to restore paper currency inferior to money, when the decree ought to have been for cash, can not be complained of by him. He has, therefore, failed to prosecute his appeal with effect, and as the decree on his appeal ought to have been affirmed, he must pay damages in this court and also the costs on his appeal. As the decree on Lawless' appeal would have been affirmed, damages and costs are decreed against him. As to the appeal of the complainant, we have already anticipated chiefly what is necessary to be said, in considering the appeal of the defendant, and it is now only necessary to give directions how the account ought to be settled. The defendant must be charged with one thousand dollars, lent, and the legal interest thereon, and credited with the interest of twenty-five per centum interest thereon; up to the date of the last note for interest alone, of seventy-five dollars, and with the payment of the negroes at eight hundred dollars; and with the awo hundred dollar note, balance of principal and the last note of seventy-five dollars; and also the full costs of the proceedings at law all at their nominal amount. The interest of twenty-five per centum per annum, having been paid at different periods when the parties made settlements and received notes, as well as other payments, must be applied as credits, at their respective times of payment to the $1,000, with its legal interest first extinguishing the interest and then applying the residue of each payment in discharge of so much of the principal, and then only counting the legal interest on the balance of the principal left due till the next payment, and so on till the whole demand of one thousand dollars with its legal interest is discharged. All payments made afterwards, must bear interest at the rate of six per centum per annum, till the date of the final decree, which must be for the amount of principal and interest then due. *3 Directions for making out the account by applying payments and calculating the interest-- --Interest in such case, it seems, shall not be so calculated, as to be made to bear interest. This estimate may either be made by the court, from the documents and pleadings in the different suits, or if more convenient, by the aid of a commissioner, to whom the accounts may be referred, if the parties or their counsel do not settle the calculation. The account settled in this manner, will evidently produce a different result in favor of the complaint from that produced by the decree already rendered. Practice in chancery. For this reason the decree on the prayer of the complainant must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for such proceedings as are herein directed. Mayes, for Lawless; Crittenden, for Blakey's administrator. Ky.App. 1827. Lawless v. Blakey's Adm'r 4 T.B.Mon. 488, 20 Ky. 488, 1827 WL 1468 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
