(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 435,  19 Ky. 435 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1336 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Southard and Star v. Steele. Dec. 23, 1826. *1 Arbitrament and Award. Submission. Partners. Deeds. Writings Unsealed. Delivery. Statutes. Practice in this Court. Equity. APPEAL FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT; JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Partnership 289 k 148.5 289 Partnership 289IV Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 289IV(A) Representation of Firm by Partner 289k148.5 k. Submission to arbitration. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 289k1481/2) A partner can bind his copartners by submission of partnership matters to arbitration. Partnership 289 k 148.5 289 Partnership 289IV Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 289IV(A) Representation of Firm by Partner 289k148.5 k. Submission to arbitration. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 289k1481/2) A submission of a controversy between a partnership and others by a deed, under seal, executed by one of the partners, is not binding on the other partners. Partnership 289 k 204 289 Partnership 289IV Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 289IV(D) Actions by or Against Firms or Partners 289k204 k. Process and appearance. Most Cited  Cases One partner may enter an appearance for another in court and bind him thereby. Alternative Dispute Resolution 25T k 365 25T Alternative Dispute Resolution 25TII Arbitration 25TII(H) Review, Conclusiveness, and Enforcement of Award 25Tk360 Impeachment or Vacation 25Tk365 k. Action to set aside or vacate. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 33k78  Arbitration) An award cannot be impeached at law for mistake, fraud, or partiality, but must be assailed in equity. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of debt upon an award, brought by one firm, or copartnership in merchandise, against another. The writ was served on one of the defendants, and returned as to the other no inhabitant. The one on which the writ was served, appeared and defended the suit, and afterwards the other appeared also, and the cause was tried on the issues of nil debet, and no award. The defendant who last appeared gave proof showing that his copartner who had departed this life, pending the suit, had in the partnership name, executed the instrument of writing submitting the matters in controversy to an umpire, while he was not in the state and then moved the court to instruct the jury-- Case stated of a submission in writing to arbitrament of a controversy between two firms made on the part of the firms by one partner only. That if they believed that he had not executed the writing, his partner had no power to submit the matters in controversy to an umpire, so as to bind him by the award, and therefore they ought to find for the defendant. Instructions moved by appellee. The court, with the assent of the parties, reserved this question and a verdict was rendered subject to the opinion of the court on the point reserved. *2 Question of law reserved and conditional verdict. The court ultimately gave judgment for the defendant, and from that judgment the plaintiffs below have appealed. Judgment of the circuit court. The instrument of writing on which the award was founded and which referred the accounts in controversy is formal and explicit in its terms, and is signed with the partnership name but not sealed. The award of the umpire appears completely on its face responsive to the submission, and determines that a large balance is due to the plaintiffs below. Submission was by one partner in writing, but not under seal, and an award responsive to it. And the question is simply whether one copartner can submit matters in controversy between the firm and strangers in this mode, so as to bind the co-partners. Question--Is the other partner bound by the award? This question has never been the subject of adjudication in this court, so far as we are informed. Submission of a controversy between a partnership and others by deed executed by but one of the partners will not bind the others. If this submission had been by deed or sealed instrument we would readily concede that the partner who did not personally join therein would not be bound thereby according to the law-merchant. We admit that the reason for this distinction between sealed and unsealed instruments is and always has been somewhat technical and more especially so under our state of law. But still it has been so long sanctioned, and has been followed by this court, in accordance with ancient precedents,??(see Trimble v. Coons, 2 Marsh. 375,) that it is sufficient now to say without searching for the reasons, lex ita scriptu est. But it is equally true as an universal principle, that one partner can bind another to strangers by a writing not sealed, in all matters pertaining to the partnership concerns. Watson in his treatise on partnership, pa. 446. One partner may bind the others by writings not sealed. Kyd on awards makes the case of submission to arbitration an exception from the general principle, and lays down the doctrine that one partner cannot thus bind another in this matter. As was well observed in argument, both of these elementary writers found this doctrine on the solitary case of Strangford v. Green, 2 Mod. 228. This case does not seem to be clearly reported, and took place at an age when the law merchant had not progressed to that defined extent, to which it has since arrived in the courts of Great Britain or those of the United States, and-- Question of the power of one partner to make a submission to bind his copartners examined on the British authorities and the power allowed. It will be seen by examining a more modern and lucid author, Gow on partnership, commencing with his 56th page and continuing to the 102d, that he makes but a single exception, from the power of one partner to bind another in all matters touching the partnership concerns, and that is the case by deed, and he summarily and lucidly lays down, and by indubitable authority, supports principles which fully sustain the doctrine that one partner can bind another in a reference to arbitration by an instrument not sealed, and what is more remarkable in his 95th page he draws a different principle from the case of Strangford v. Green, from that drawn by his predecessors, Watson and Kyd, and that is, that one partner who makes a submission to arbitration, is bound to perform the award, although his co-partner was no party to the submission. This we conceive is the most correct deduction from that obscure authority. It has also been well observed in argument, that both Kyd and Watson in making the exception which they have made, have laid down a position incompatible with other principles maintained by them. *3 It is clear, according to the position of Watson that one partner may not only bind his co-partner in all unsealed instruments touching partnership concerns, but he can sell the stock in trade, transfer the company debts, and even by a release under seal, may release a debt due the firm without the express assent of his copartner. Wat. on part. 225. And it is laid down as a general rule that any one who is capable of making a disposition of his property or a release of his right, may make a submission to an award. Kyd on awards, 20. It is difficult, and perhaps impossible to give a satisfactory reason for prohibiting one partner to bind the other by submission to an award, and allow him at the same time equal or greater powers in every other respect. The power given to one partner to bind his fellow, is a matter of great convenience to the partners themselves and enables them to transact business with equal facility without a special authority for every act, when they reside in different countries, and it redounds greatly to their benefit; because they thereby enhance their credit by binding the funds of each, to strangers, who in their turn are benefited by a security without the signature of each. Why then, should they be prohibited from submitting their differences with strangers to this peaceable and often times convenient mode of adjustment. Power of one partner on selling, contracting, releasing and arbitrating controversies of the concern. Indeed it is said that one partner may enter an appearance for another in court, and thus bind him by a legal proceeding, could he not by the same rule tak?? every step in a suit for his co-partner and assent to a rule or order of court submitting the suit to a reference? If so it must be clear that he can do so without such rule, by an instrument of writing in the partnership name. It is said one partner may enter an appearance for another in court, and so cause him to be bound. But we are not left to reason alone to guide us in this conclusion. The learned counsel who argued this cause have directed us to a late case in the supreme court of Pennsylvania, Gow on part. 483, expressly in point, where the question is fully considered and the case ably reviewed, and conclusive reasons advanced in favor of the exercise of such a power. Although this case is not obligatory upon us,??yet it is entitled to respect,??and we have no hesitation in adopting it, in preference to the obscure case of Strangford v. Green, and conclude that by the law merchant one partner can bind another by submission to an award. Case in Pennsylvania cited in Gow, referred to as in point. But it may be insisted that an act of assembly, 1 Dig. L. K. 264, has altered the law merchant in this respect. That act provides that "All writings hereafter executed, without a seal or seals, stipulating for the payment of money or property, or for the performance of any act or acts, duty or duties shall be placed upon the same footing with sealed writings containing the like stipulations; receiving the same consideration in all courts of justice, and to all intents and purposes having the same force and effect, and upon which the same species of action may be founded as if sealed." It may be contended that as this act places unsealed instruments on the same footing with sealed, and as it is conceded that if this instrument was sealed, the co-partner would not have been bound, therefore he cannot be bound by an instrument entitled to the same consideration. This argument is plausible but not conclusive. *4 The statute placing certain unsealed writings on the same footing with deeds does not alter the mode of executing unsealed instruments--it only gives the greater effect to them after they are executed, which may be done as before. At the passage of this act the mode of making and executing sealed and unsealed instruments were different. Some formalities, such for instance, as delivery, necessary in the former, were not necessary in the latter. These requisites by the act were not changed. Each instrument was left to be made or executed as theretofore, and to be done by the same parties and in the same manner. The force of the statute then consists in the weight of evidence attached to each instrument after it is made, and not to the manner of creating the obligation. Each instrument, therefore, is left to come into existence in the same mode as before the passage of the act, and it cannot avail the appellee. Delivery is essential to a deed, not so of other writings not sealed. As the judgment must be reversed, another question presents itself. The appellee filed several pleas which were demurred and overruled, and he tendered evidence which was rejected on the trial; and upon the reversal of a judgment it is both the practice and duty of this court to go back to the first error. After reversing a judgment this court goes back to the first error. The object of all these pleas, and of the evidence offered, was to impeach the award for mistake, partiality in the umpire, and unfairness in obtaining the award and the facts offered, if true, might affect the award. The court below resisted every such attempt. In doing so, in an action at law, that court was correct. For it is a well settled rule that an award cannot be impeached in an action at law, but the party attacking it must be left to his suit in equity, 1 Saun. 326. Wills v. McCormack, 2 Wil. 148, Gow on part. 491. The circuit court therefore did not err in excluding from the action at law the defense set up. An award at common law, can not be impeached for either mistake, partiality in the umpire, or unfairness, in obtaining it, but must be assailed in equity. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to enter judgment for the plaintiffs, on the verdict in the court below. MOTION TO CORRECT THE JUDGMENT AS TO THE PARTY APPELLEE. The counsel of Robert M. Steele moves the court to correct the judgment rendered by this court, by striking his name out of the caption of the orders, and inserting William, the appellee, against whom, he insists the judgment was rendered in the circuit court. The declaration is against William Steele and Robert M. Steele, and process issued against both, which was executed on William, and returned as to Robert, no inhabitant. William, on whom the writ was executed, appeared and defended the suit. It is said in the first entry in court, that William filed a plea, &c. and a demurrer, &c. and his name, and that only, is contained in the introduction to the plea, and the several demurrers are, by the defendant, in the singular number--and so are the entries of the judgment upon them. It is true that afterwards the pleadings and entries contain the word defendants; such is the style of a number of special pleas, afterwards filed, and the subsequent entries touching them. But in no plea, order or judgment, is the name of Robert contained; it does appear to have been put on the margin of some of the pleas, but it is contended that such a statement of parties, composes no part of the plea, nor can it effect them; it is only designed to show to what cause the paper belongs, and its inaccuracy cannot expel a person, plaintiff or defendant from the cause, and much less introduce one on whom process had never been executed. But at the trial term, the entries, all of them, are defendant, in the singular, and so is the final judgment on the question reserved at the subsequent term. It is true there was no abatement of the suit entered as to Robert, because of the sheriff's return of no inhabitant as to him; but it is insisted, the plaintiff having accepted the plea and demurrers of William, virtually suffered an abatement as to Robert, or what would be equally favorable to him, a discontinuance. *5 If Robert could be supposed, to be again brought up into the cause by the use of the plural defendants, then it is insisted that by the same process of reasoning, he would be afterwards extricated from the cause, by the subsequent use of the singular. It does appear in the bill of exceptions, that William had died, and it would seem to be implied that Robert had been defending the suit at the trial, but it is relied that William's death had never been suggested on the record and that he could not be put out of the world and the cause, by a bill of exceptions; and much less could Robert, who had never been summoned, be made by that means, the only defendant and the subject of the judgment, to meet it alone. As to the circumstance of the appeal bond having been made payable to Robert, that can have no effects it was but the mistake of the clerk. On the whole record, it is contended that the whole proceeding in the inferior court, must be taken as against William only, and that so ought to be the entries here. If, however, there be any doubt on this question, it is then relied that the proceedings below and here, from the first use of the word defendants in the court below, must be taken as against both, and that the entries in this court ought to be corrected by inserting the name of William Steele--and should the court overrule the first motion, then this motion is made--and should either motion prevail, the court will be moved to strike the cause off the docket for the insufficiency of the appeal bond. In the event of the court overruling these motions then the attention of the court is called to the following: PETITION FOR A REHEARING ON THE MERITS, BY F. W. S. GRAYSON, ESQ. Can one partner bind another by submission of their accounts to arbitration? The defendant most respectfully prays a rehearing of this case. His counsel with great deference would urge, that the court erred in adopting the principle upon which the judgment of the inferior court has been reversed; namely, that one partner may, for his co-partner as well as himself, submit matters of controversy to arbitration; a principle, which has, perhaps, the support of no previous decision and only one dictum, that, which is to be found in the case of Taylor v. Coyell & Co. in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania?? Gow, 585. There the only defendant upon whom process was served, by whom defense was made, and against whom judgment was rendered, was William Taylor, the partner, who made the submission; the other partners were not before the court, and what Judge Duncan said in that case, as tending to charge partners who do not concur in the submission, was extrajudicial, and no authority even in Pennsylvania. The case of Strangford v. Green, 2 Mod. 228, contains a contrary dictum. There, too, the partner who was sued had, for himself and co-partner made a parol submission; the court in deciding that the partner who submitted was bound by the award, took occasion at the same time, to say, that his co-partner was not bound. This dictum has, however been approved and adopted as law, by Bacon in his abridgement, 1 vol. 208; by Kyd in his treatise on awards, 42; and by Watson in his treatise on partnership, 446; Gow in his treatise on partnership, 86, the latest on the subject, states that the partner who made the submission is bound by the award, though his co-partner was no party to it; by which he leaes us to infer that the latter is not bound. He refers to Strangford v. Green, without questioning the principle therein expressly laid down, that the co-partner who did not concur in the submission is not bound by the award. Partners are agents for one another; the power which one partner possesses to bind another is but the authority of an agent to bind his principal, conferred for the benefit and by the necessity or interest of the principal. Agents are clothed with general or special powers. Partners belong to the former class; they can make no higher claim. Now a general agent can not bind his principal, by a reference to arbitration, without his special authority. No case has gone so far. The interest of the principal, in the general, can not require and his safety oftentimes forbids it. It is true that arbitrations are convenient and dispatchful; but it is equally true that they are extremely hazardous. And the errors and injustice which unlearned referees may commit, however enormous, admit of no correction. It is a dangerous jurisdiction, to which principals themselves seldom resort, and too often with well founded regret. That there is no redress of an unjust award, however ruinous, presents an invincible argument against the power of a general agent to bind his principal by a submission, without his special consent. Kyd on awards, page 45, says it is out of the ordinary course of the business of an attorney to refer a matter to arbitration, and therefore he does not possess the power; although it is the common understanding that the assent of an attorney in a cause, to a reference by a rule of nisi prius, will bind the client; because his employment as attorney in a particular suit, implies the client's consent that he may do everything which the court may approve, in the progress of the cause. Yet the assent of a solicitor to a reference by a rule of a court of equity will not bind his client without his actual concurrence. 1 Chy. R. 194. 1 Cha. ca. 86, 1 Eq. Ca. ab. 49. And yet attorneys at law and solicitors, possess similar powers. To submit a matter to arbitration, by an agent for his principal, is considered an unnecessary and dangerous exercise of power and if it be allowed to an attorney at law, it is because it is exercised under the approbation of the court?? which is scarcely a sufficient reason and has been deem-insufficient in the court of chancery to authorize a solicitor to do the same thing. *6 A guardian represents the ward for whom he acts, and is his general agent; yet if he submits to a reference, as he may do, for the infant, he binds himself thereby and not the infant; 3 Vin. 110, Kyd 39, Com. 319. Roberts v. Newbold. A court of chancery will not decree an award to bind the infant. 1 Eq. Ca. ab. 50, pl. 1. The authority conferred by act of assembly upon Barnett's Commissioners to sell and convey lands and to collect and pay debts, did not carry with it, the power to submit a matter to arbitration. Although it is a mode, cheap, convenient and despatchful, to collect debts or settle controversies, it is at the same time an extraordinary and dangerous mode. 2 Bibb. 270. An executor or administrator represents the creditors and legatees or distributees of the decedent. He is their general agent and something more. He possesses power coupled with interest. He is a trustee with the most extensive powers. And although an executor or administrator, as such, may submit to arbitration, yet if the arbitrators do not award as much as he would be entitled to at law, it would be a devastavit for the residue. Toll. 425. 1 Bac. ab. 207, Kyd 40. The reason is stronger in favor of guardians and executors or administrators binding those they represent by submissions to reference than other agents, for unless they possess such power by virtue of their character of guardians, executors or administrators, however convenient and safe a reference may be deemed, it cannot be had, but at their special peril, whilst as to other agents, the principals may be consulted, or a special power delegated, whenever it may appear expedient. The legislature of Kentucky has accordingly authorized guardians to submit land controversies to arbitration, acoording to the arbitration laws that may be in force, 1 Lit. laws 676, Hard, 323. But the reference there authorized, is to be had under a rule of court, and not the common law reference to an arbitrator, who acts without the obligation of an oath, and without the power of summoning or swearing witnesses; a sort of haphazard umpire. It would be difficult to imagine a reason in favor of one partner binding another by a submission, which would not apply to executors or administrators. Both have power to make sales, to collect or release debts. The argument of convenience equally applies to each. Yet the former can not submit to reference, but at their own peril, however expedient it may seem; whilst as to the latter, if references be desirable, special power to that effect, may in all such cases, be conferred, and therefore not necessary that the power should be implied. The reference made in this case was a common law reference, to an arbitrator who was to act without oath and without the power of summoning or swearing witnesses, and yet whose decision, however erroneous or unjust, was to be conclusive on the parties. This is a sort of reference which even an attorney at law has no authority to make, though employed for the sole and special purpose of managing the controversy to be submitted. If he submits his client's cause to reference, it must be with the approbation of the court, and to a sworn arbitrator, with competent power to summon and swear the witnesses to be examined. And yet how much more competent is he to exercise the delicate discretion of agreeing to a reference, than ordinary partners in the country? *7 One partner may bind another, concerning partnership matters, by parol contracts, but not by deed; because a deed precludes all inquiry into its consideration. This would therefore be a dangerous power and is not to be implied; but an award equally precludes inquiry into its merits and no reason occurs against one partner binding another by deed, which does not equaly apply to awards. It is not denied, that one partner executing a deed for himself and co-partner submitting to a reference, can not bind the co-partner to submit to the award, Gow 489. Decisions to that effect are sufficiently numerous, and if they are less so as to parol submissions, it is, perhaps, because parol submissions are of rare occurrence in the books, as said by Duncan J. in Gow 489; and which, as I take it, is because common law references in England, are almost always made by deed. But if an award is not binding upon all the partners, where the submission is by the deed of one, executing for himself and co-partners, it follows that the award would not be obligatory upon them, though made upon a parol submission. The objection to the former, is not that one partner can not bind another by deed, for it is not claimed that the co-partner is bound by the deed, but by the award; the deed is only used as evidence of the fact, that the one partner submitted for all; as to which, the seal can form no conceivable obstacle, any more than to a receipt for money, which might happen to have a seal to it. It has been said by an attorney, Dampier, in argument, that one partner may enter an appearance for another to an action, 7 T. R. 207, which Judge Duncan in the case of Taylor v. Coyell & Co. mistook for an authority, Gow, 491. But the contrary had been held by Judges Iredell and Chase, 3 Dal. 391; and so expressly decided in South Carolina, 2 McCord's rep. 310, Gow 195 in note-- and upon principle, because the interest of the co-partners cannot require it. If one partner can appear for another, it can only be where there has been service of process. No general agent can appear to a suit for his principle without service of process. If a partner have such power, then service of process upon one should be deemed sufficient for all, as in the case of executors, which we know to be otherwise. There is then, not a single authority in favor of the power of one partner to appear for another, without previous service of process, whilst there are respectable authorities against it. If the partner have no such power, it will scarcely be contended that he can bind his copartners by an award made upon his submission for them, without their consent, where he not only appears for and represents them, but creates without their authority, an extraordinary and dangerous jurisdiction from whose errors, however ruinous, no redress can be had. The decision in this case is the first and only one I have been able to find reported in favor of the power of one partner binding another by an award made upon his parol submission, and if it be not against principle, it is at least without authority, and is opposed by the opinions of some of the ablest judges and lawyers of England. *8 This case was heard upon the argument of the appellant's counsel only. Several points were decided by the inferior court, against appellee and as is believed all of them not correctly, to argue which also a rehearing is desired. All which is respectfully submitted. The court on consideration overruled both the motions, and stated the grounds in the following: APRIL 10, 1826. ADDITIONAL OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. As to the questions raised by the petition for a rehearing that the court below proceeded against a wrong defendant, or that the judgment below or proceedings here have been had against one on whom process is not served, the court returns the following answer. Answer to the petition as to the parties. The writ was executed on William Steele and returned as to Robert M. Steele, ""not found and no inhabitant." The appearance is entered generally for the defendants.--It is true some of the first pleas in abatement (as the pleas are numerous) are expressly in the name of William Steele alone. But others, as the cause progressed are filed expressly in the name of both and that which contests the execution of the writing is by Robert M. Steele, alone, and he is the partner, who on the trial contested the effect of the writing upon him, by proving that it was signed by William Steele in the company name, when he, Robert, was out of the country. There is then no doubt Robert really appeared and is completely a defendant in the cause, as much so as if the process had been executed upon him. The trial and all the entries relative thereto, including the judgment, notice but one defendant only; and there is no difficulty in ascertaining which it is. It is clearly Robert, who denied the power of his partner to bind him. The exceptions taken show this, and that, at that time, William had departed this life. This accounts for all the proceedings against one only. The parties knew that he was dead. They proceeded according to this knowledge against the surviving partner; but omitted to make an entry on record abating the suit as to the deceased defendant. The fact of his death is at length shown clearly, and the proceeding is not against him, but his partner, who it has been seen had appeared. This irregularity we deem by no means sufficient to warrant this court, in setting aside either its own proceedings or those of the court below, for presuming that in all their solemn forms, these proceedings were against no person--that William is dead and Robert unknown in the cause. The cause has all along had strong resistance from some quarter, and it is not difficult from the record to ascertain that this opposition arose from Robert M. Steele. It may be that the clerk of the court below, as well as the clerk of this court, in the caption of their entries, have employed the name of William Steele after his decease, inadvertently. If so, these entries are amendable as there is enough in the record to amend by, and such correction of the entries is directed accordingly. *9 One defendant in the capias returned no inhabitant, and who did not at first appear, is shifted into the stead of the other who first defended and afterwards died, and is so become the sole defendant without out any formal entry--a singular case. As to the main point, whether one partner can bind another by submission of their accounts to arbitration, evidencing that submission by such an instrument as one can execute for another, it is impossible to read either the elementary writers or adjudicated cases, and not believe that such a power is comprehended in the general authority conferred upon his co-partner by the nature of their association. The reason for that general authority fully embraces this act. The particular instances in which one partner can bind another as held in the adjudicated cases, by analogy sustain this power also. For the exception to the general rule there ought, therefore, to be strong reason or clear authority. Of reason there is none--of exception there is but one--that ancient, before the law merchant had come to perfection, and is more a dictum than a decision--not clearly reported; though it is admitted it has given birth to an exception in some elementary treatises. This weak authority, if such it can be called, we conceive is not only shaken but overturned by conclusive reasoning, and modern cases and treatises. One partner has by the general authority as copartner, power to bind the others by the submission of their accounts to arbitration by writing not sealed. The petition for a rehearing is, therefore, overruled. Crittenden, for plaintiff; Grayson, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Southard v. Steele 3 T.B.Mon. 435, 19 Ky. 435, 1826 WL 1336 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
