(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 21,  17 Ky. 21 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1469 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gatewood's Heirs v. Rucker's Heirs, &c. Oct. 6, 1824. *1 Practice, Executors, Assignors, Parties, Process, Revivor. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; WILLIAM WARREN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 438(6) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k438 Parties 162k438(6) k. Recovery and Protection of Property of Estate  in General. Most Cited Cases The personal representatives of a deceased vendor of land are necessary parties to a bill for the recovery of the purchase money. Process 313 k 67 313 Process 313II Service 313II(A) Personal Service in General 313k67 k. Acceptance or Acknowledgment of Service. Most Cited  Cases Proof of service of summons by written admission of the defendant is insufficient, unless the genuineness of his signature is proved. Abatement and Revival 2 k 75(1) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k75 Application and Proceedings Thereon 2k75(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases On the death of a party in chancery, the suit can be revived by bill only, except in the case of a deceased defendant, who has filed his answer. Assignments 38 k 129 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k129 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases To bill on a bond by an assignee, the assignor is a necessary party, when the bond was not assignable at law, at the time the assignment was made. Equity 150 k 116 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k116 k. Substitution. Most Cited Cases Where there is no suggestion in the bill or amended bill, of the death of one of the defendants, or of his heirs, known or unknown, yet publication is made against them, and process served on one of them, as they are not parties to the pleadings, the whole proceedings against them are irregular, and cannot be sustained. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. This is a bill in chancery, to compel the specific performance of a contract for land, and sets out a bond executed by Andrew Gatewood to Robert Dale, in 1793, and assigned the same year by Dale to James Rucker and Elijah Creed, and by them, in 1794, assigned to the complainant. The bill alleges that the title was in Theodorick Noel, and that he had sold it to Gatewood, or authorized Gatewood to sell it, and had received the price. Noel, Dale, James Rucker, Creed and the heirs of Gatewood, are named defendants in the bill. An amended bill suggests that the complainant is informed that Gatewood had no authority to sell for Noel, or had not purchased; and prays that if such should turn out to be the fact, the heirs of Gatewood might be compelled to pay the price of the land. *2 Silas M. Noel, who styles himself one of the heirs and devisees of Theodorick Noel, answers the bill, and denies any knowledge of a sale by his father. No other defendant answered, and the court decreed against the heirs of Gatewood, the price of the land. (1.) It is alleged by the assignment of errors, that the order of publication against the unknown heirs of Noel, is defective in its terms and time of publication. We have not thought it necessary to decide on the sufficiency of the notice given by the order; for there is no suggestion in the bill or amended bill, of the death of Noel, or of his heirs, known or unknown; yet, publication is made against them, and process is served on one of them. As they are not parties to the pleadings, the whole proceeding against them is irregular, and can not be sustained. (1) A person not named in the pleadings is not made a party by filing his answer, styling himself heir and devisee of a person named as defendant, but not summoned, and whose death had not been suggested. (2.) As to the heirs of Gatewood, the decree is improper, even if the proceedings were regular; for if the complainant is to get the price of the land, and not the land itself, the personal representatives of Gatewood were necessary parties, and ought to have been brought before the court, in order that the price of the land might be paid first out of the personalty and slaves, before the real assets in the hands of the heirs were reached by the decree. (2) Executors are necessary parties to a bill for a dissolution of the contract of the testator, and repayment of the purchase money. (3.) The bond on which the bill is filed, was not assignable by law, at the time it was assigned, and the assignors were consequently necessary parties. (3) Assignors are necessary parties to a bill by an assignee, on an assignment made before it was authorized by the statute. (4.) On the subpoena issued for James Rucker, there appears a written acknowledgment of service, signed by his name. There is no proof in the record, that he signed this acknowledgment. As held in  Peers v. Carter's heirs, 4 Litt. Rep. 268, he could not be considered a party. (4) A written acknowledgment of the service of a subpoena in chancery must be proved. (5.) The last error we shall notice, is, that just before the hearing, it was suggested by the complainant's counsel, that the complainant was dead, and thereupon an order was made reviving the suit in the name of his executors. Shortly after, a similar suggestion was made, and the suit was revived, by order in the names of his heirs, and the cause was then heard without any notice of this revivor, to the opposite party. (5) A chancery suit can be revived by bill only, except where the defendant dies after filing his answer. According to the ancient chancery practice, which generally prevails in this country, except so far as it is modified by statute, the mode of revivor was by a bill for that purpose, on the death of either party; and we are aware of no statute which alters the mode, except one provision, (1 Dig. L. K. 54), which applies exclusively to the case of a deceased defendant, who has filed his answer. An order to that effect is made and served on the representatives of the deceased. That provision has no application to this case, and of course the suit was not revived. *3 The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Barry, for plaintiffs; Haggin, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Gatewood's Heirs v. Rucker's Heirs 1 T.B.Mon. 21, 17 Ky. 21, 1824 WL 1469 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
