(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 405,  21 Ky. 405 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1579 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Brown, &c. v. East. Oct. 3, 1827. *1 Practice. Error. Parol Contracts for Land. Mandates. Rents and Improvements. Commissioners. APPEAL FROM THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT; WILL. L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 138(1) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k138 Contracts Implied by Law on Part Performance 185k138(1) k. In general. Most Cited Cases A parol contract for the sale of land will give the purchaser a lien on the land for the restoration of his purchase money and for his improvements. Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 141 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k141 k. Contracts as ground of defense. Most Cited Cases A parol contract to convey land, though unenforceable, is a good defense. Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 153 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185X Pleading 185k151 Pleading Statute as Defense 185k153 k. Sufficiency of denials and allegations. Most Cited  Cases A denial of a contract for the sale of lands amounts to the same thing as a plea of the statute of frauds. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 337 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(A) Recovery of Purchase Money Paid 400k337 k. Lien for purchase money and value of improvements  and enforcement thereof. Most Cited Cases A vendee of land under a parol contract, though he cannot have specific performance, may enforce a lien on the land for the purchase money and his improvements. Appeal and Error 30 k 1175(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVII Determination and Disposition of Cause 30XVII(D) Reversal 30k1175 Rendering Final Judgment 30k1175(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Where the appellate court reverses for the appellant on any error, the whole case is then revised from the first error;  and thus a decree may be directed, though it be more against the interest of the appellant than that reversed. Alternative Dispute Resolution 25T k 408 25T Alternative Dispute Resolution 25TII Arbitration 25TII(H) Review, Conclusiveness, and Enforcement of Award 25Tk407 Parol Evidence as to Award 25Tk408 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 33k88  Arbitration) Parol proof is admissible to show the contents of a lost award and submission. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. George I. Brown recovered a judgment in ejectment for two fractions of lots in the town of Nicholasville, being part of Nos. 72 and 73, in the plan of the town, against Robert East, who to be relieved against the judgment, filed his bill in equity, alleging that a great many years since, he purchased one of said fractions, part of No. 72, That a certain Joseph Carson had previously purchased it of a certain Daniel Bourne, who held the legal estate, and East purchased it from Carson, and Bourne gave his bond to convey the title, which he exhibits as part of his bill. That shortly afterwards he purchased of said Bourne the other portion adjoining, being part of No. 73, in company with a certain John L. Martin. That Martin wanting another part of said lot, and not willing to buy the whole, bought the residue for him, East, it being understood that each was to pay for the part he got. That the payment was made, and he, East, took possession of his part, being adjoining to that bought from Carson, and held it in possession for a great number of years, during which time both Bourne and Brown lived in the town. That Bourne never set up any claim thereto afterwards. That he, Bourne, failed and was cast into prison, and took the oath of an insolvent debtor, and in his schedule did not include any part of either purchase, knowing that he had no right to either. But that lately, he had combined with George I. Brown, and had conveyed him the title of said lots, and Brown had brought his ejectment and recovered his judgment, well knowing of his, East's claim, before he purchased, and that he was living in the open undisturbed possession thereof for many years previously. He prays for a conveyance or payment for his improvements. *2 Allegations of East's bill for injunction against the judgment in ejectment, claiming the land or compensation for improvements. Brown answered the bill, not denying his knowledge of East's claim and occupancy, but denying that East had ever paid any thing for either lot, or that Carson had paid any thing for his purchase, to Bourne, and denying any contract through Martin, or purchase of the other part, and alleging that he had purchased the lots for a valuable consideration. Bourne's answer. Bourne answers, and admits his sale to Carson, and his bond to the complainant; but denies that either Carson or the complainant paid any thing for that part. He denies the contract made by Martin, or when Martin purchased, or any payment, and pleads as an apology for his omission to place any part of the lots in his schedule, when he took the insolvent debtor's oath, that he forgot that he held this estate at the time, and that it escaped his recollection. Bourn's answer. The court below refused to decree a conveyance to East for either purchase; but decreed that East was entitled to payment for his improvements, and rendered a decree against Brown for a balance found against him, on an assessment of improvements and rents. Decree of the circuit court. From which decree both Brown and Bourne have appealed, and assigned for error, that the court below erred in fixing the criterion by which the rents and improvements were assessed. Assignments of error. We conceive that the court below, did not adopt the proper criterion in assessing rents, and that for this cause the decree must be reversed. How far, or in what respect, that court erred in fixing a proper criterion, by which to make these assessments, will hereafter be noticed. But so soon as the decree is reversed, it behooves the court to look into the whole record, and according to the established practice, to go back to the first error in whosesoever favor it is committed, and if in rectifying previous errors, the decree we may render shall bear hard upon the appellant, or plaintiff in error, and give him less than what he had before, he must bear the consequences. Where this court reverses for the appellant on any error, the whole case is then revised from the first error, and thus a decree may be directed worse for the appellant than that reversed. On looking into this record, we find much in it, that ought not to have been there, and much calculated to render it obscure. The bill is not drawn with skill, and some doubts have been entertained, whether its allegations are so framed as to admit the proof adduced. But after due consideration thereof, in its present state of injudicious preparation, we conceive the court below, ought not to have refused a conveyance of that part sold by Bourne to Carson, and by Carson to the complainant, for which the complainant holds the bond of Bourne. Against a conveyance of this part, the only defence is, that Bourne has not received the consideration, and still he shows no evidence of debt. The bond itself expresses on its face, that it is the estate "sold by said Bourne, to Joseph Carson, and by him to said East. The deed to be made whenever called on." This shows that Bourne was so far satisfied as to look to Carson for the price, and that he had no demands against Carson, or right to retain the title. *3 Where a conveyance bond does not shew the consideration money remains unpaid, and the covenant is for a conveyance unconditionally, if the obligor alleges the price is still due, he must prove it. It is also proved, that many years since, Bourne set up this same claim, that he had not been paid the price by Carson, and therefore would not convey. This controversy was then referred to arbitrators, by a submission in writing, and they awarded that Bourne should convey the estate, whatever his claim against Carson might be, because he had encouraged East to pay Carson the price. This submission and award are both lost; but their contents are proved with as much accuracy, as could be expected. It is therefore clear, that the complainant is entitled to a decree, for all within the bond of Bourne. An arbitration of a dispute as to the obligee's right to demand a conveyance relied on and held effectual. As to the remaining contract, alleged to be made by Martin, there is more difficulty and obscurity. But notwithstanding the denial of the defendants, it does clearly appear in proof, that Bourne sold this ground also, and received the payment. Martin wished to buy an adjoining piece of ground, but not the whole, which Bourne wished to sell, adjoining the lot purchased by East of Carson. Bourne was not willing to sell part, without the whole, and as East wished the part adjoining his former purchase, and Martin the residue, it was agreed that Martin should contract for the whole, and each pay for the part which he wanted, which was accordingly done. Against this purchase, the defendants have not pleaded the statutes of frauds and perjuries, but they have denied the contract, and this amounts to the same thing as a plea of the statute. For the complainant can not by parol, prove a contract, that will entitle him to a specific performance. Denial of an alleged contract by parol, for land, has the same effect as the plea of the statute of frauds and perjuries. But although a parol contract, when denied, and proved, will not be specifically enforced, against the statute, in favor of a complainant, yet it has often been held good as a defence, and also to give a purchaser a lien for his purchase money on the land, and of course, the complainant in this case, if he can not have the land thus purchased, he will be entitled to a restoration of his purchase money with interest, and to a lien on the land for it, as well as for whatever improvements he may have made thereon. Parol contracts for land may constitute a defense to a suit, and a purchaser in possession may have a lien on the land for the consideration money advanced. There is, however, some uncertainty in the present state of preparation, whether the land itself can or can not be obtained. There is a bond filed from Bourne to Martin, for part of the same lot, but whether that bond includes only the part which Martin purchased for himself, or that, with the part he purchased for East also, can not be ascertained without directing a diagram or admeasurement to be made, which the court below is directed to haev done. In doing this, the boundary of that part purchased of Carson, as well as that purchased by Martin, and whether the part of the complainant is in Martin's bond or not, can be ascertained. If it is in Martin's bond, then the court ought to direct Martin to be made a party, and if no objection is shown on his part, to decree to East a conveyance of this part also, with general warranty on the part of Bourne, and special warranty on the part of Brown. On the contrary, if the part purchased by Martin for the complainant, is not included in Martin's bond, then the court is to direct an assessment of the improvements on this part, according to their value when the ejectment of Brown was served, and also fix a reasonable rent on the estate so improved, commencing at the same period. Also to ascertain by a commissioner the price given by East for this part of the lot, and to calculate the legal interest thereon, from the time that rents are directed to commence, and if the balance be in favor of the complainant, after the deduction of rents, then he is to have a decree for the amount thereof, with a lien upon the estate, and if the money be not paid, after a reasonable time, then to direct a sale of the estate to discharge it. At all events, a decree is to be rendered in favor of the complainant, for the conveyance of the part purchased from Carson with costs. *4 Directions to the chancellor below to order an admeasurement and diagram to ascertain a material fact now uncertain in the record. Order that the complainant below be required to make a certain person defendant, on condition a certain fact be found on enquiry, to exist, as apprehended. Mandate, for the circuit court to order a commissioner to ascertain the purchase money and make an account. We would barely remark, that the criteriou by which we have directed the rents and improvements to be assessed, corresponds with the case of  Ewing's heirs, &c. v. Handley's ex'ors., 4 Litt. 346, to which this case is similar, and in fixing the assessment at first made, the court below deviated from that rule, and for this cause, the decree on the appeal of the defendant below can not be permitted to stand. Rents and improvements--the principle and rules for assessing them. The decree is reversed with costs, and the cause is remanded to the court below, that such decree may be entered, and proceedings had, as may not be inconsistent with this opinion. Haggin and Lough borough, for appellant; Barry, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Brown v. East 5 T.B.Mon. 405, 21 Ky. 405, 1827 WL 1579 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
