(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 115,  17 Ky. 115 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1505 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Braydon v. Goulman. Oct. 14, 1824. *1 Practice, Conditional Sales, Mortgages, Usury, Evidence. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Payment 294 k 13 294 Payment 294I Requisites and Sufficiency 294k13 k. Obligations payable in depreciated currency. Most Cited Cases A tender of a nominal amount of paper money, which has depreciated, without tendering the discount, is not payment. Release 331 k 13(1) 331 Release 331I Requisites and Validity 331k11 Consideration 331k13 Sufficiency in General 331k13(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases As the acknowledgment of the mortgagor of a slave, that he had no further demand on the mortgagee, extorted from him when he paid the mortgage money as a condition of the redelivery of the slave, is without consideration, it will not bar an action for the hire of the slave, which the parties had usuriously agreed should stand against the interest. Trial 388 k 68(1) 388 Trial 388IV Reception of Evidence 388IV(B) Order of Proof, Rebuttal, and Reopening Case 388k65 Reopening Case for Further Evidence 388k68 After Close of  Evidence 388k68(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases It is within the discretion of the court whether or not to admit further evidence after the testimony has been closed. Usury 398 k 119 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(B) Rights and Remedies of Parties 398k119 k. Questions for jury. Most Cited  Cases A stipulation in a contract about a slave, contended by one party to be a conditional sale, and by the other a mortgage to secure a usurious loan, that, if the slave died in the possession of the former, he should lose his money, is not conclusive of the character of the transaction, but evidence from which the jury may judge of the usurious nature of the contract. Contracts 95 k 95(2) 95 Contracts 95I Requisites and Validity 95I(E) Validity of Assent 95k95 Duress 95k95(2) k. Duress of goods. Most Cited  Cases The acknowledgment of the mortgagor of a slave that he had no further demand on the mortgagee, extorted from him, when he paid the mortgage money, as a condition of the redelivery of the slave, is without consideration. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. Braydon declared in assumpsit, against Goulman, ??n two counts, one for money had and received to his ??se, the other for a certain sum, "for the hire of a cer??ain negro man slave, the property of the plaintiff," for ?? specific length of time. Non assumpsit was pleaded. *2 On the trial of this issue, the plaintiff gave in evidence a bill of sale for a negro man slave, executed by ??im to the defendant, in usual form, expressing a consideration of four hundred dollars, and warranting to ??he defendant, the slave forever, and signed and seal??d by the plaintiff. The bill of sale. He also gave in evidence another writing, signed ??nd sealed by the defendant, to this effect: "Whereas Robert Braydon hath this day sold me, ??homas H. Goulman, one negro man by the name of ??ilbert, for the sum of four hundred dollars, I bind myself, my heirs, &c. to sell to said Braydon the above named negro man for the sum of four hundred dollars, at any time, by giving said Goulman one month's notice." The defeasance to the bill of sale. The draftsman of these writings, deposed that, at the request of the parties, he wrote them according to his understanding of the contract, and his impression from their conversation was, that the negro was only to remain as a security for the loan of the money, until the sum mentioned in the writings should be paid; that the slave was then worth between seven and eight hundred dollars, and would hire for from one hundred to one hundred and twenty dollars per annum; that it was expressed at the time, if the negro??died before the money was restored, the defendant was to lose him. This latter fact was corroborated by the confessions of the plaintiff, proved by other witnesses. The parol evidence. Another witness proved that the transaction was a?? loan, and that the money loaned was in the paper o?? the Bank of Kentucky, then refusing the payment o?? specie, and the slave was to labor for the use and interest of the money. It was also proved that the defendant, while he held the slave, had said that h?? would give two hundred dollars more for the slave, i?? the plaintiff would sell him. The plaintiff further proved, that after some time h??tendered the four hundred dollars in notes of th?? Bank of Kentucky or Bank of the Commonwealth, a?? a repayment, and demanded the slave. The defendan?? refused to receive this sum in paper, alleging that th?? money had depreciated much below what it was whe?? he loaned it, and required fifty dollars more to mak?? up the depreciation. The plaintiff at first refused t?? pay the additional sum, but at length did so, reluctan??ly, and the defendant gave up the slave, but not unt?? the plaintiff would acknowledge that he had no oth?? claims against him in relation to the transaction. The whole proof of the defendant conduced to sh?? that the slave had run away and did not serve a po??tion of the time, and that his value and hire we worth somewhat less than the terms spoken of by t?? plaintiff's witnesses. The parties then declared their testimony close and the defendant moved for instructions, and de??sions were given in reply thereto. The evidence closed, and instructions moved for by defendant. The defendant then applied for leave to introduce other witnesses, who were present in court and had not been summoned to prove the value of the paper loaned, at the time it was loaned, and at the time it was restored, and that, ad interim, there was a real depreciation. *3 Defendant applies for leave to introduce other witnesses, not summoned, but in court. The plaintiff's counsel opposed the introduction of further evidence, as irregular and disorderly; but the court permitted it, and the plaintiff excepted. Plaintiff objected, court overruled the objection, and plaintiff excepted. The plaintiff then moved the court to instruct the jury, that if they believed from the evidence, that the fifty dollars in addition to the four hundred paid by the plaintiff in redemption of the slave, was extorted from the plaintiff by the defendant's withholding the slave until it was paid, and that the plaintiff was coerced by the defendant's so withholding the slave, to pay it, he was entitled to recover it back in this action, if the contract was usurious. Instructions moved for by plaintiff. The court overruled this motion, and instructed the jury, that as there was a difference between the parties, it was competent for them to agree on the amount to be paid by the plaintiff in discharge of all actions, and that they might have made and executed such an agreement; and that the defendant giving up the slave, and the plaintiff paying the money so agreed on, each side in discharge of all actions, was valid and would bar the plaintiff in this action. Instructions given by the circuit court. The court further, on motion of the defendant, instructed the jury, that if they believed from the evidence, that by the contract the defendant was to lose his money, if the slave died while in his possession, the contract was not usurious; but if it was merely colorable, to conceal the usury, it was not to be regarded by the jury; but notwithstanding such colorable contrivance, the contract would be usurious, and the plaintiff could not recover. The jury found for the defendant, and the plaintiff moved for a new trial, which was overruled, and the plaintiff excepted to the opinion of the court as to the instructions and decisions given, and spread the evidence on record, and has brought the case before this court by writ of error, and complains of each of these decisions. Verdict, motion for new trial, &c. (1.) As to the admission of new witnesses after the parties professed to have gone through their evidence, it may be readily conceded, that it was against the strict practice which ought generally to be adhered to in conducting causes. (1) It is against strict practice, which ought generally to be adhered to, to permit either party, after both have professed to have gone through their evidence and instructions have been moved, to introduce additional evidence. He who has the affirmative, ought to introduce all his evidence to make out his side of the issue, then the evidence of the negative side is heard, and finally, the rebutting proof of the affirmative, which closes the investigation, after giving each a fair opportunity to be thus heard. In doing this, neither side ought to be permitted to give evidence by piecemeal, then to apply for instructions, and again to mend and add to his proof, until by repeated experiments, he shall make it come up to the opinion of the court. *4 An adherence to these rules, generally, will be found necessary in all courts of original jurisdiction, and without them, confusion, loss of time, and captious and irritable conduct must follow. (2.) We say generally, for it will often be found necessary and proper for the presiding court, for good reasons to depart from them, to attain complete justice; and when they ought or ought not to be varied, must, in a great measure, be left to the sound discretion and prudence of the inferior court. And this court, for such departure, ought never to interfere, except injustice is done by that departure. () The court presiding over a jury trial, may, whenever necessary for the attainment of complete justice, depart from the rules for the order and time of introducing evidence, and in such departure this court will not interfere, unless injustice be done. (3.) The evidence admitted in this instance, was pertinent. It is not objected to, because from its nature it ought not to be heard; but because it was heard at an improper time. In such a case, we ought not, and cannot give any redress. We ought not, because the evidence has not done injustice, and that court had the disposition of its own time, and might or might not hear it, as time or other good reasons might require. We cannot, because if we were to reverse on that account, it would only open the way to admit the same evidence in a time and manner which could not be objected to, and the party who now complains has received no injury which ought to be redressed, and he would again have to submit to the same evidence. (3) Where the evidence irregularly admitted was competent, this court can not correct it; for by granting a new trial they would only open a door for its regular admission. As to the first instruction, had the court refused it as asked, we could not have interfered. We do not agree with the plaintiff's counsel in the instruction asked, nor with the court in what was given. (4.) We should have refused the instruction as asked, because the evidence did not conduce to prove that the defendant withheld the slave to extort more than what in conscience he might demand, and because the bare withholding the slave until a sum of money was paid could not be deemed such a species of duress as to vitiate the payment, which, under such circumstances, must be deemed voluntary and not compulsory. The difference in the value of the bank notes loaned and those returned, was a fair subject of adjustment, and the defendant could, both in law and conscience, be permitted to receive what was equal in value to those which he had loaned; and the retention of the slave until that value was made up, could not be considered an act of extortion. Thus far as to the instruction asked. (4) Mortgagee of a slave in possession, refuses to surrender him, until the mortgagor, who had tendered the nominal amount in the paper currency he had borrowed, paid the depreciation: The sum so paid is not extorted, but justly due and not recoverable back. *5 (5.) Had the instruction given, been confined to the sum of fifty dollars; had the court only said that it was competent for the parties to settle the difference in value between the bank notes loaned and those offered, and to agree to that difference; and that the agreement, if so made and executed, ought to bar all cause of action for the restoration of the fifty dollars, we should not disturb the verdict. (5) The acknowledgment of the mortgagor of a slave, that he had no further demand on the mortgagee, extorted from him when he paid the mortgage money, as a condition of the re-delivery of the slave, is without consideration, and will not bar an action for the hire of the slave they had usuriously agreed should stand against the interest. But why the payment of the fifty dollars was extended to the cause of action and made to defeat a recovery of the hire too, we cannot perceive. The claim for hire was in favor of the plaintiff, against the defendant, and it is hard to conceive how the plaintiff could make an accord, and pay the satisfaction himself, to get clear of his own cause of action against his adversary. It may be said that the plaintiff's agreement that he had no further cause of action, before the other would deliver his slave, ought to bar him. It would be hard to support that agreement by any valid consideration. The defendant claimed fifty dollars, to make the bank notes as good as those he had furnished to him. This sum was accorded and paid. He was then bound to surrender the slave, and this duty he refused to perform, until the other say he had no further cause of action. For the restoration of the slave, the plaintiff had paid ample value, and yet he is to surrender more, before justice is done. If a refusing to restore property pledged to secure usurious loans, until the oppressed party shall agree to abandon all claims for the usury, shall ever be held a good bar to such claims, the statute against usury will soon be a dead letter, and a contrivance to avoid it will be invented, fatal to all its effects. So far, then, as the court applied this agreement, to the claim for usury, paid by the hire of the slave, or to affect any part of the action, except the claim for the fifty dollars, the instruction was erroneous. (6.) As to the second instruction, we have been tempted to believe that it has been wrongfully transcribed, or that some mistake has been committed by the draftsman; and we are unwilling, if we could, to construe it into an attempt to tell the jury that the circumstance that the defendant was to lose his money, if the negro died in his possession, was good evidence for their consideration, tending to show the contract was not usurious, and if so, the plaintiff could not recover; but if, on the contrary, such an agreement to lose the money was a colorable contrivance to conceal the usury, the plaintiff could still recover the usury paid in the hire of the slave. (6) A stipulation in a contract concerning a slave, contended by one party to have been a conditional sale, by the other a mortgage to secure an usurious loan, that if the slave died in possession of the former, he should lose his money, is not conclusive of the character of the transaction, but good evidence for the consideration of the jury, to show the contract was not usurious. *6 If this meaning could be drawn from it, we would be willing to let it stand as an instruction of which the plaintiff ought not to complain. But the letter forbids this sense, and the negative in the last clause, "the plaintiff could not recover," cannot be expunged. This conclusion is a perfect non sequitur from the premises, and completely barred the plaintiff of a recovery of any thing, even if the jury should believe that the contract was usurious. The instruction, with this negative in the last clause, was evidently erroneous.FNa1 FNa1. The court is correct in supposing there was an error in the draft of the instructions as they appear in the record. It occurred in the bill of exceptions, by the Circuit Judge misplacing an interlineation. The words, "but if it was merely colourable," &c., "would be usurious," instead of preceding the words "and the plaintiff could not recover," ought to follow them and conclude the instructions. But after this correction, the instruction is still materially different from that of which the court say the plaintiff ought not to complain. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings to be had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Swigert and Moore, for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Braydon v. Goulman 1 T.B.Mon. 115, 17 Ky. 115, 1824 WL 1505 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
