(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 338,  21 Ky. 338 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1560 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Elliott, &c. v. Waring. Jul. 2, 1827. *1 Parties. Fraud against Creditors. Husband and Wife. APPEAL FROM THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT; WILL. L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 911 228 Judgment 228XXI Actions on Judgments 228XXI(A) Domestic Judgments 228k911 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases The assignor of a judgment, in whose name it was recovered, is a necessary party to a suit brought on it by the assignee. Assignments 38 k 129 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k129 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases In a bill by the assignee of a judgment to set aside a fraudulent conveyance, the assignor, in whose name judgment was rendered, must be made a party. Equity 150 k 415 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k415 k. Nature and Essentials in General. Most Cited Cases On a bill to set aside the transfer by a husband of his wife's distributive share of her father's estate, it was held that a decree directing a commissioner to take the estate descended to the husband in right of the wife, by that description only, and sell so much as would satisfy the complainant's demand, was erroneous. Husband and Wife 205 k 12 205 Husband and Wife 205I Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities 205k7 Property of Wife 205k12 k. Wife's Equity to a Settlement. Most Cited  Cases The wife and children of a debtor may have an injunction against the creditors, who are proceeding to subject property descended to the wife during coverture to the satisfaction of their claims, and demand a suitable provision to be made for them. Husband and Wife 205 k 221 205 Husband and Wife 205VI Actions 205k221 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases Where a creditor brings a bill to set aside the husband's assignment of his wife's distributive share of her father's estate, the wife and children must be parties. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Waring, the appellee, filed these two bills, setting up two judgments at law obtained against Elliott, in favor of other persons, and assigned by the plaintiffs therein to Waring, after the judgments were rendered; and alleging that executions had been issued thereon, with returns of no estate, Elliott being insolvent. He also states that Elliott's wife's father had departed this life, intestate, leaving a large estate, a great portion of which, both real, personal and slaves, had thus descended to Elliott, in right of his wife; and that Elliott and his wife knowing that it would be subject to these and other judgments, had, a few days after the death of his father-in-law, united in a sale and conveyance thereof to her brother, the administrator of the father-in-law, and that the brother had executed his notes for three thousand dollars, the feigned price thereof, not to Elliott, but to Benjamin Taylor as trustee for Mrs. Elliott and her children. He charges that this conveyance is fraudulent, prays that it may be set aside and the estate subjected to his demands, which he held as assignee, or if the conveyance was not fraudulent, his demands might be satisfied out of the price due from the purchaser to the aforesaid trustee. *2 Allegations of Waring's bill, suing as the assignee of judgments against Elliott to set aside the transfer made by Elliott, of his wife's distributive share in the estate of her father, then lately deceased, or to subject the price the purchaser undertook to pay, for the maintenance of Elliott's wife and children. Elliott answered that it was the intention of his father-in-law to give him no more of his estate, knowing his hopeless insolvency, and to settle whatever portion he designed for her, in the hands of trustees, for the use of herself and children; but he died intestate suddenly, without having made such disposition, and he, Elliott, knowing the intention of her father, executed the deed immediately after his death, in conformity thereto, believing it an act of justice thus to place it beyond his own control, for the purpose of supporting his wife and children, who must otherwise come to want. Elliott's answer. The trustee answered that he accepted the trust at the request of the parties, to hold the estate for Mrs. Elliott, and was not apprized of any fraud therein, and knew but little about any demands against Elliott. The purchaser did not answer. Answer of Taylor, the trustee for the wife and children. The court below set aside the deed as fraudulent, and directed the judgments of the appellee to be satisfied out of the estate. Decree of the circuit court. If there was no other objection to this proceeding, than the mode in which the decree is rendered, we should be compelled to reverse it. After setting aside the deed, without taking any account of the estate descended to Mrs. Elliott, or there being any part of the pleadings or exhibits shewing what kind of estate it is, or in what it consisted, the court appointed commissioners and licensed them by the decree to go and take of the estate descended to Elliott, in right of his wife, by that description only, and to sell so much thereof as would satisfy the demands of the appellee. Objections to the manner of the decree. Without, however, dwelling on this point, there is a defect of parties to the bill. The original holders of these judgments, still hold the legal title thereto, and judgments not being rendered assignable by law, the assignments only passed an equity to the appellee, and therefore, according to former decisions, they were necessary parties to the suit, and ought to have been brought before the court, previous to rendering any decree in favor of the appellee. In a bill by assignee of a judgment, the assignor in whose name the judgment was recovered must be party. But there is a more important party which ought to be made before any decree, and that is Mrs. Elliott and her children. Omitted parties. It is urged that she can have no interest therein, as the estate descended to her vested in her husband, and became liable to his debts. It will be found, however, that she has an equitable interest, which the chancellor will not fail to notice. It is certainly true, that whatever chattels and slaves the wife may possess at her marriage, become the property of the husband on the marriage, and whatever comes or accrues to her during coverture, vests in the husband according to the course of the common law. But it is equally true that the chancellor will not lend his aid to enable the husband to get at the estate of the wife where he is not possessed, until he shall make for her separate use a suitable provision out of it. Though husband and wife are counted in law, one person, yet equity frequently treats them differently, and there the husband may sue the wife, or the wife the husband, and they may be permitted, in certain cases, to sue and defend separately. While it is necessary for family government, and also to the relation to the rest of society, in which the husband and wife may stand, that there should be but one will to govern, and one owner of property, yet there are great abuses as well as hardships growing out of that rule, which courts of law can not correct, or relieve, and equity therefore will interpose, and give redress. One of these hardships is the suffering of the wife and children, from the imprudence of the husband, and equity will often relieve it, by providing for the maintenance of the wife, especially out of an estate originally belonging to her in her own right. *3 Where a judgment creditor brings a bill to set aside the husband's assignment of the wife's distributive share in the estate of her father, who died during the coverture, executed to raise a fund in the hands of trustees, for the wife and children and to subject such share, or the price, to the satisfaction of the debt; the wife and children must be parties. It is evident in this case that there had been no distribution made of this estate to Elliott previous to conveyance to the trustee for the use of the wife, and that is not pretended. The legal title therefore, of the chattel and slaves was not in Elliott, and to get at them himself, and recover them from the hands of the administrator, he would have had to have brought a suit in the name of himself and wife, and in such suit, though it had not been expressly asked by the wife, the chancellor might, and would have directed a suitable provision for the wife and children by a settlement, before any decree would have been rendered in the husband's favor, and would by the aid of a master have fixed on the extent of this provision. Oxenden v. Oxenden, 2 Vern. 494; Bosvill v. Brander, 1 Pr. Wms. 459; Jacobson v. Williams, 2 Pr. Wms. 382; Brown v. Elton, 3 Pr. Wms. 202; Jewson v. Moulson, 2 Atk. 417; Grey v. Kentish, 1 Atk. 280; 1 Ves. 539; Howard v. Moffat, 2 John. Chy. Rep. 206. Equity will not aid the insolvent or improvident husband to obtain the possession of the wife's estate, without making an adequate provision for the wife and children. If this would have been done in the case of the husband's own application to a court of equity, so it would be done in the case of others claiming under him, and applying to the court for redress. The only doubt in this case must arise from the circumstance of the complainant below being a creditor, and the inquiry is, whether a creditor seeking to subject the estate coming through the wife, to the debts of the husband, will be subject to the same rule? In such case those claiming under the husband, will be subjected to the same terms. This creditor had to come to a court of equity for redress; and as he does so, we will find the rule as to him is the same. For whenever such estate of the wife comes within reach of the court, the same rule will be applied. It is true, family settlements, made by the husband after marriage, are generally void as to creditors; but this will not hold always, as to the estate of the wife which the husband has never possessed, and on the credit of which the husband can not be supposed to have contracted, and this is more emphatically true with regard to an estate which falls to the wife during coverture by bequest or devise, or by inheritance, especially when by the imprudence or misfortunes of the husband, the wife and children are in danger of distress. Creditors of the husband shall not subject the property which falls to the wife by descent or devise, during the coverture in opposition to the claims of the wife and children in danger of distress:-- *4 But the chancellor will make for them an adequate provision. Equity in such case will not only refuse to bring the estate into the power of a creditor, who never could have trusted to that fund when he dealt with the husband, but has even sustained a bill in favor of the wife enjoining the proceedings of a creditor till she should have a reasonable provision made for her out of the fund. 1 Atk. 192, Vandenanker v. Desbrough, 2 Vern. 96; Kenney v. Udall, 5 John. Chy. Rep. 464; Glen. v. Fish, 6 John. Chy. Rep. 33; Haviland v. Myers, ib. 25, 178; and cases therein cited. In the case of Kenney v. Udall, the late chancellor of New York has reviewed the decisions of the British chancery, with his usual ability, and has established his positions, by precedent beyond controversy, and concludes thus: "if the wife's personal fortune be vested in trustees, or be in any other way under the control of the court or placed within its reach, the court will not suffer it to be recovered until an adequate provision be made for her. Wife and children, in such case, may have injunction against the proceedings of the husband's creditors to subject such property of the wife to payment of his debts, and demand a suitable provision to be settled on them. The case of Haviland v. Myers, was a bill by the wife, to enjoin the creditors of the husband from proceedings against the personal estate of the wife, and in refusing to dissolve the injunction, the same chancellor uses these broad expressions: "The rule is settled by the cases referred to, in the opinion delivered in Kenney v. Udall. And by the recognition in that opinion of the doctrine of those cases, that the wife's equity to a suitable provision for the maintenance of herself and children, out of her separate, real and personal estate, descended or devised to her during coverture, is well established, and will prevail equally against the husband or his assignees, and against any sale made, or lien created by him, even for a valuable consideration, or in payment of a just debt. It was immaterial whether the suit in protection of that equity be instituted by the wife, or by any other person in her behalf. It may be instituted as in this case, by the wife against a creditor at law to restrain him from touching the property and the equity may be extended, if the circumstances of the case should require it, to the whole of the real and personal estate so devised or descended to the wife." Equity of the wife to have a maintenance out of the estate falling upon her during the coverture, shall be preferred to the husband's creditors, and all others claiming under him. Whether the rule should be applied as broadly as here laid down, except to cases where the wife previously had a separate estate by an ante-matrimonial contract we need not enquire. The authority is sufficient to show that Mrs. Elliott, has even by the complainant's own showing, a strong equity in the fund now in contest, not only to be heard as defendant; but that she by her bill or cross bill may controvert the complainant's right to a part, or the whole of this estate, and that his right to come in at all, must depend essentially upon the enquiry whether the amount descended to her, is or is not a reasonable provision for the support of herself and children under the circumstances of the case, and these circumstances are, the insolvent or hopeless condition of her husband, and his prudence in management; her prospects for a support without this fund; and whether she has any other resources; the number of children, and the amount necessary for her, and such like facts and circumstances attending the case. *5 The circumstances to be considered by the chancellor, in allowing and fixing the amount of the settlement on the wife and children out of the estate falling upon her in the coverture. It is unnecessary for us to say any thing now on the merits of the sale made by herself and husband of the estate, as its merits may be a more proper enquiry, on a final hearing when all the parties are before the court. It might turn out that if the sale was for the value of the estate, the chancellor might then let it stand, and secure enough of its proceeds for the wife, by properly vesting the fund for that purpose; for we are not prepared to say on the glimpse of that sale, which is afforded us, that it is fraudulent, especially as it was the sale of a fund which the wife had the right to have secured to her, in part at least, by application to a court of equity, that ordeal of fraud. Or if it is for too little, and thereby the interest of the complaining creditor is injured, the court might direct the true value to be ascertained, and direct the transaction to be set aside in order that the creditor might come at the excess, if it shall turn out under all the circumstances of the case, that the whole of the estate descended is an unreasonable provision for the wife and children. There is however, an absolute necessity that Mrs. Elliott should be made a party, and be allowed to assert her rights, before the estate is subjected to the demands of the creditor. Assignment by the insolvent husband, of the distributive share of his wife, of her father's estate, dying after the marriage, to the administrator, in consideration of a settlement on the wife and children, is not necessarily fraudulent against creditors. We can not help remarking that it is somewhat singular that the principles which we have now recognized, should have heretofore been passed in our courts in such entire silence, especially as it might be expected that cases would frequently occur, demanding their application, and there are but few principles of a court of equity touching the domestic relations of society better established, or more often recognized for more than a century past. The decrees must each be reversed with costs, and each cause be remanded with directions to dismiss the bills with costs, and without prejudice to any future suit for the same cause, unless the complainant shall in a reasonable time given, amend his bills and bring the necessary parties before the court. Mandate. Haggin and Loughborough, for appellants; Wickliffe, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Elliott v. Waring 5 T.B.Mon. 338, 21 Ky. 338, 1827 WL 1560 (Ky.), 17 Am.Dec. 69 END OF DOCUMENT
