(Cite as: 4 Litt. 317,  14 Ky. 317 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1294 (Ky.)) Yel Flg Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Johnston v. Gwathmey, &c. Dec. 4, 1823. *1 FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JOHN P. OLDHAM SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 230(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(C) Bona Fide Purchasers 400k225 Notice 400k230 Recitals in  Conveyance 400k230(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A deed to a subsequent purchaser referred to the deed by which the grantor held the land, in which deed it was recited that "in consideration of the sum secured to be paid," etc., the conveyance was made. Held, that such subsequent purchaser was bound to take notice of the contents of such deed. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 261(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k261 Assignment of Lien or Claim for Purchase  Money 400k261(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The assignee of an execution issued on a judgment recovered on a note given for the purchase price of land, secured by a lien on the land, is entitled in equity to the benefit of the lien of the note which is prescribed by the judgment. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 261(2) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k261 Assignment of Lien or Claim for Purchase  Money 400k261(2) k. Assignment of Claim or Obligation for  Purchase Money as Assignment of Lien. Most Cited Cases The assignment of a note given for the purchase price of land carries with it the vendor's lien. Assignments 38 k 78 38 Assignments 38IV Operation and Effect 38k75 Rights Passing as Incidents 38k78 k. Collateral Securities, Liens, and Preferences. Most  Cited Cases The assignment of a debt operates as an assignment of all collaterals or liens securing its payment. DENNY for appellant; no attorney for appellees. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Gabriel J. Johnston sold and conveyed an out-lot of twenty acres in Louisville, to John Gwathmey. The purchase money was payable by several instalments. About two months afterwards, Gwathmey sold and conveyed the same lot to Arthur L. Campbell, for a valuable consideration. Gwathmey failed to pay the two last instalments to G. J. Johnston, and confessed a judgment on one of these notes, which was first due, and thereon an execution issued, and was returned "no property found," Gwathmey having failed, and become insolvent. While this execution was in force, Gabriel J. Johnston assigned it to Ben. W. Johnston, and also sold and assigned to him the note of Gwathmey for the last instalment. Ben W. Johnston then filed his bill to enforce the lien for the purchase money against the lot and charges that Arthur L. Campbell had notice that part of the purchase money was not paid, and seeks to subject the lot in his hands, and made G. J. Johnston, Gwathmey and Campbell, defendants. *2 By an assignment of a note for the purchase money, or by an assignment of the execution if judgment and execution have been obtained, all the lien which the assignor, the vender, had on the property sold, for the payment of the purchase money, passes to the vendee. The purchaser's receiving notes for the payment, without surety, is no waiver of the lien. Gabriel J. Johnston answered, admitting these facts and agreeing that Ben W. Johnston was entitled to whatever lien existed. Gwathmey answered, admitting his inability to pay the amount, and states that he gave no information or notice to Campbell, when he sold the lot, of there being any part of the purchase money due. Campbell also denies notice, and pleads and relies that he is an innocent purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice; insists that Gwathmey was wealthy at the time, but has since failed; that Gabriel J. Johnston knew of his purchase from Gwathmey, but never gave him notice of any balance due, then, or for months afterwards. A subsequent purchaser is bound by implied, as well as express notice. The court below dismissed the bill with costs, from which decree B. W. Johnston has appealed. It is contended in the answer of Campbell, that the appellant is only the assignee of these demands, and therefore cannot take advantage of the lien or security which G. J. Johnston held against the lot. As to the judgment and execution, they were not assignable in law, but were so in equity. The note which had not been closed by judgment, was assignable by the act of assembly rendering such instruments assignable. If the assignment of the execution did not pass the lien, it must be owing to something which forbade it, in the contract between G. J. Johnston and the appellant. No such objection appears in the writing, and Gabriel J. Johnston, whose business it was to make it, admits the appellant's right to it. Or it must be owing to the fact, that the assignment per se destroyed the lien. For this we see no good reason. G. J. Johnston could have maintained his bill, and no valid objection is perceived against his assignee of the judgment doing the same thing, and availing himself of all the advantages his assignor possessed, by making him a party. As to the note assigned under the statute, the reason is equally strong. Nothing is withheld by the words of the law; therefore, the passing of the principal took with it the incident; and it is more equitable to say that the assignor should be compelled to furnish all the facilities and securities which he held, to enable his assignee to recover the debt, than that they should be lost to the assignee by the assignment. The assignee takes the note, under the express provisions of the act, subject to all the equity to which it was subject in the hands of the holder. As he takes it subject to all disadvantages, it is more consonant to the principles of reciprocity, to permit him to take and hold it subject to all the advantages which are attached to it. This objection cannot, therefore, prevail. *3 Where the deed to the subsequent purchaser referred to the deed made by the party claiming the lien, by its date, held that the subsequent purchaser was bound at his peril to notice the contents of that deed, although it was not recorded, nor lodged in the office, nor the time arrived when it was required to be so lodged. Such deed reciting that the consideration was secured to be paid at times future to that when the subsequent purchaser bought, held sufficient notice that the purchase money was not paid, and to support the lien. It is also insisted that this judgment and note were assigned in consideration of a lot sold by the appellant to G. J. Johnston, and that on that lot he held a lien, which he ought to be compelled to enforce, instead of this. To this it may be answered, that were it conceded that the appellant, after taking these securities on others, retained a lien on his lot sold, (which is by no means clear,) it would not follow, that it was not competent for G. J. Johnston to transfer to him the debts which he held on others, in payment, and that the appellant could not resort to any legitimate means in his power, to recover those debts, before he resorted to his lien. Besides, although it may be probable, yet it is by no means certain, from the proof, that the note and judgment were assigned in payment for a lot. The word, security, in such deed, held not to mean surety. What is sufficient evidence to identify debts demanded with the consideration stipulated to be paid. It is further urged, that it does not appear that the notes in question were given for the purchase money of the lot sold to Gwathmey. To this it may be answered that besides the presumption which might arise from there being no other dealings shown between Gwathmey and G. J. Johnston, the deed made by the latter to the former, not only agrees with the notes in date, but recites the instalments minutely, and the two last agree precisely with the notes, both in sums and times of payment; a coincidence which could not have happened between any other distinct transactions, and which is always held sufficient to show that one is the consideration of the other. The question, then, must exclusively turn upon the inquiry, whether Campbell really had notice of the purchase money not being paid. That he had express or actual notice, cannot be pretended; for there is no proof of such notice in the record. But whether he is not bound by implied notice, is a question of more seriousness. This doctrine of implied notice is strictly enforced in equity, sometimes to an extent that seems to impose individual hardship. Such presumptive notice is a conclusion of law, (where, by the exercise of ordinary diligence, without any extraordinary precaution, a man cannot but acquire a knowledge of the fact charged,) that he has notice, without any proof of actual notice. The principle applies where a purchaser cannot make out a title, but by a deed which leads him to a fact material to it, he will not be deemed a purchaser without notice of that fact, but will be presumed conusant of that fact; for it is deemed gross neglect, if he sought not after it. Thus, in Draper's Company v. Yardly, 2 Ver. 662, parties who claimed under an individual by mortgage and a rent charge, although he had levied a fine with five years' non-claim, were held bound by notice, to satisfy a legacy out of an estate, because that individual first took the estate under the will granting the legacy, and that will was held to be implied notice to all purchasers under him. So, in Dutch v. Kent, 1 Ver. 260, 309, parties claiming as innocent purchasers, two or three grades or links beyond a patent which created a trust, were held bound by that grant, on the ground that they ought to have noticed it at their peril. So, in Moore v. Bennett, a person purchasing from one who claimed by deed revocable by will, subsequent purchasers were held to have notice of the will, as well as the power of revocation in the deed; for no conveyance could be made to a purchaser, but by the deed, which contained the power of revocation and alluded to the will. This case will be found to be analogous in principle, to the present. See Cha. Ca. 246, Pow. on Mort. 571. *4 In the case now under consideration, the conveyance from Gabriel J. Johnston to Gwathmey, was executed on the 17th September, 1817, and recites the consideration in the following words: "For and in consideration of the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars, secured to be paid by him, the said Gwathmey, at the following periods, to wit, four hundred dollars on the third day of March next, 1818; four hundred dollars on the third day of June next, 1818; four hundred dollars on the third day of September next, 1818; six hundred and fifty dollars on the third day of September, eighteen hundred and nineteen, 1819; and six hundred and fifty dollars on the third day of September, one thousand eight hundred and twenty, the receipt of which security is hereby acknowledged." On the 11th of November, 1817, not two months after the execution of this conveyance, Gwathmey sold and conveyed the lot to Campbell. That conveyance recites the consideration as paid, and further declares, that it is "the same lot that was conveyed to the said John Gwathmey by Gabriel Jones Johnston and Elizabeth, his wife, by indenture and deed bearing date the 17th day of September, 1817;" which prima facie, amounts to express notice. Aware of the effect of this recital, Campbell, in his answer, has reasoned against his being affected by it, as well as denied every fact touching the deed, as it behooved him to do. He contends that the words, ""secured" and "security," employed in the deed of Gabriel J. Johnston, mean that some personal security was given, which removed the lien, and that in this sense he had a right to take it, if he must notice the contents of this deed. This is not the literal and proper meaning of the expression. The words properly mean that bonds or notes, or some writings, were taken, and personal security would be better designated by the word surety, than security. It is true, we often, in common parlance, say bond and security, when we intend to communicate the idea that some other or others are bound, when the bond itself is security. Such, indeed, is ofte, the legislative language employed in our statutes; but the words neither necessarily nor properly bear such meaning, and one could not read them, without being put on the inquiry, whether the lien was or was not removed, which the purchase money necessarily created; for the security is received from Gwathmey alone. It is also denied in the answers, both of Campbell and Gwathmey, that Campbell ever saw this conveyance, and Campbell alleges that he rested on the word of Gwathmey, that he held a conveyance, and never examined it, and that the deed was not of record when he purchased. It is true, by the certificate of the clerk, this deed of G. J. Johnston to Gwathmey, was not put on record until about fifteen days after Campbell's purchase; but the authorities cited, and the principles adopted by them, do not rest upon the registry of the previous titles; for the effect is the same, if the deeds are not recorded at all, if the party to be affected by notice, claims under, and cannot make out title without them. As to his not having examined the deed, the principle contended for considers that as done, which ought to be done, and which no prudent or cautious man would omit doing. It operates as a quasi estoppel, and binds a man by an equity apparent in the title by which he holds, and does not permit him to claim under it, when for him, and against it, when it operates against him. *5 We conceive, therefore, that the notice that not one cent of the purchase money was paid, is complete on the face of this deed, under which Campbell purchased, and that he is bound by that notice, whether he did or did not possess himself of it, when it was so accessible that he could scarcely avoid it. It is in this and the like cases that the maxim, caveat emptor, emphatically applies, and it is reasonable and necessary to bind a party by his own title. The principle may operate with some hardship, in a few cases; but, as Chancellor Kent observes with regard to the lis pendens, a doctrine of similar operation on subsequent purchasers, "it is one of the cases in which private mischief must yield to general convenience." A seller who has taken so much pains, as is done here, to place notice in the road of all who should thereafter attempt to purchase, so that they must stumble over it, if they would not watch their feet, ought not to be deprived of the lien to which the law entitles him. The lien ought, therefore, to be enforced against the lot, and if not discharged, on reasonable time given for that purpose in the court below, the lot, or so much thereof as may be necessary, must be exposed to sale to raise the balance of the purchase money due and claimed in the bill. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs against Campbell and Gwathmey, and the cause be remanded to the court below, that a decree may be there rendered according to this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Johnston v. Gwathmey 4 Litt. 317, 14 Ky. 317, 1823 WL 1294 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 135 END OF DOCUMENT
