(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 79,  17 Ky. 79 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1490 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Simms v. Kirtley. Oct. 11, 1824. *1 Evidence, Partnership Books, Practice. APPEAL FROM THE HARRISON CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Partnership 289 k 338 289 Partnership 289VII Dissolution, Settlement, and Accounting 289VII(D) Actions for Dissolution and Accounting 289k338 k. Firm Books of Account, and Accounts Rendered or  Stated. Most Cited Cases In stating partnership accounts, as between themselves, the entries in the partnership books, to which all the partners had access at, or soon after, the time when the entries were made, are prima facie evidence of their correctness. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. This is a case of mutual account, arising from partnership transactions, with an injunction, and both parties pray an account to be taken by commissioners; but the court dissolved the injunction and dismissed the bill. (1.) If the allegations and proofs do not show any balance in favor of the complaining party, it can not be erroneous to dismiss such a bill, without an account. This, however, does not appear to be the case here. (1) Where the allegations and proofs do not show a balance in favor of the complaining party, it is not necessary to appoint commissioners; but the bill may be dismissed, though both parties have prayed an account. The parties commenced their partnership in purchasing horses and mules for foreign market, on the principles of equal shares in expense and profit. Each one progressed in making purchases out of his own money, until a fund was created by borrowing. Not being skilful in accounts, they caused a common friend to make them a little book, in which should be entered the expenditures of each, and it remained with their friend, subject to the inspection and scrutiny of both. In it, each one entered his money expended, and sometimes their friend made their entries for them. After some time had elapsed, and there had been some loss by the death of horses, and some profit by sales and exchanges, the defendant in the court below, purchased out the complainant, and was to give him five hundred dollars for his interest in the adventure, clear of all expences, and of course, he became bound to discharge all the partnership debts, and to refund to the complainant what he had expended in the purchases made out of his own funds. The complainant then took the drove to market for the defendant, as a hireling, at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month. Further statement of the case. The only question worth notice, is, what credit is to be attached to this partnership book, between the parties? Is no charge in it to be admitted as evidence, unless it is supported by other proof? or is the book to be taken as correct, prima facie, until it is impeached? The court below seems to have given it no credit, farther than it was supported by proof aliunde. (2.) Although the book of an individual is not evidence in his favor against others; yet from the very nature of the case, the books of partnership must be evidence between the partners themselves. Their situation is one of confidence. They agree to unite, and as to others, to become one person, and the books of the firm are to speak their language and record their joint transactions, and there is an understanding that these books are to be appealed to, to tell their true situation. To admit them as evidence, then, is only effectuating their agreement, and using their own criterion and test, to ascertain the truth. Such books, therefore, kept subject to the inspection of each, must be admitted as correct, until the contrary is shown. *2 (2) The books of a partnership, kept subject to the inspection of each partner, are evidence between them. Admitting this book by this rule, many of its items are supported, and but one, that is $55 paid to Dixon by the complainant, is impeached. Deducting that item, and the expenditures of the complainant, before the joint funds were obtained by loan, will be $730.50; the hire of his slave, as acknowledged, will be $25.95; his own services on the trip to market, will be $37.50; horses put in to the joint stock, $242.50; and the price for which he sold is $500. These added, are equal to $1,536.45. From this, deduct the following credits, which appear to be the only ones admitted or proved with any certainty, to-wit: Cash, $200; ditto, $470; ditto, $50; ditto, on two occasions, $25 each, equal to $50, and a watch, $10; and the balance will be $756.45, in favor of the complainant. The only mode of getting over this balance, is, either by rejecting the partnership books, which we have seen ought not to be done, or by supposing, that as the complainant received $1,000, borrowed by the firm, of Col. A. Buford, it must be charged against him. This latter charge is inadmissible on the present proofs; because there is no charge in the answer, or pretense set up, that the complainant kept this money. Besides, the expenditures charged in the book, were all before this money was obtained. (3.) In this estimate, we have only included those items on each side, which can be clearly ascertained; and as there is great obscurity in the proof taken and filed, we do not deem it proper to close the transaction by this estimate, as the report of a commissioner or commissioners, with powers to take explanatory evidence as to other charges, on each side, and even that received from Buford, and to appeal, by pertinent interrogatories to the conscience of each, on their oath, may shed great light upon the mutual charges, and add to the accounts of each of the parties. Such appointment ought to be made accordingly, and a final decree to be rendered on their report, on the return of the cause to the court below. (3) Where, on the hearing of a bill for an account between partners, there is great obscurity in the proofs, the chancellor ought not to pronounce a final decree, but should appoint commissioners, with power to take explanatory evidence, and to put interrogatories to the parties on oath. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that such proceedings and decree may be rendered, as shall not be inconsistent with this opinion. Haggin, for appellant; Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Simms v. Kirtley 1 T.B.Mon. 79, 17 Ky. 79, 1824 WL 1490 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
