(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 318,  21 Ky. 318 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1558 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Commonwealth of Kentucky v. Rodes and his Sureties. Jun. 30, 1827. *1 Evidence. Tender. Set-off. Warrants on the Treasury. Constitutional Law. Treasurer. APPEAL FROM THE GENERAL COURT, JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Taxation 371 k 2827 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(K) Collection and Enforcement Against Persons or Personal Property 371III(K)1 In General 371k2827 k. Actions Against Defaulting Officers. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 371k567) A tender and set-off cannot be pleaded to suits of the state against collectors of the revenue. Collectors, to secure responsibility, must be held to great strictness and be deprived of some of the privileges of other defendants, and the allowance of a set-off in such a case might hamper the government. Taxation 371 k 2827 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(K) Collection and Enforcement Against Persons or Personal Property 371III(K)1 In General 371k2827 k. Actions Against Defaulting Officers. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 371k567) In suits by the state against collectors of the revenue, nothing but a "quietus" from the auditor can be pleaded. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. The Auditor of public accounts, at the August term, 1826, of the general court, filed his notice in writing, that he would on the fourth day of the term move against the appellees, one being the clerk of Fayette county, and the rest his sureties, for the revenue collected by the clerk on deeds, seals, &c., and not accounted for to the treasury. Notice of the auditor to the fourth day. On the third day of the term, the Attorney-General, made the motion, and obtained the judgment the appellees making default. Motion and judgment on the third. On a subsequent day of the term, the clerk appeared, filed his affidavit, stating the reasons of his default, and the nature of his defence, and showing that the defence on which he relied, was prepared and in Frankfort, the day on which the judgment was obtained, but was not then offered, the judgment being rendered before it arrived, and he prayed that the judgment might be set aside and his defence immediately heard. Motion for rehearing granted, cause re-heard, credit allowed, and judgment for balance. His motion was granted, and his defence heard, and he received on that hearing a credit for fifteen hundred dollars, and judgment was rendered against him for a small balance. The Attorney-General excepted to the opinion of the court and appealed. If the defence of the clerk was a valid one, we should not feel disposed to disturb the opinion of court, because the affidavit was insufficient, and that for the following reasons: The motion was made a day sooner than the Auditor had appointed in the notice, when if it had been deferred till the true day specified by the Auditor, (which day he had a right to fix), the affidavit shows the defence would have been then made, and was only excluded by anticipating the day. *2 Motion having been made on the day before the notice, the rehearing approved. The proceeding was without personal service of notice, and of course, subsequent applications to be heard, may be entitled to greater leniency than to rehear judgments rendered on the service of process or notice personally served. The clerk having offered immediate trial, and the defence being of a nature which was not calculated to surprise the opposite party, if his defence was legal and meritorious, we should not feel disposed to reverse to keep such a defence out, as the court below had the control of its own time, and could exercise a sound discretion in permitting a rehearing, which might be calculated to obtain substantial justice. Discretion of the court in granting re-hearings. The proprietor, therefore, of the rehearing must exclusively depend upon the admissibility of the defence offered, as disclosed in the affidavit, and afterwards proved on the trial. That defence was the following.--The Saturday before the court commenced the clerk, attended at the Auditor's office, and settled his accounts, and the Auditor certified the amount to the Treasurer. The clerk then tendered to the Treasurer these Auditor's warrants, of five hundred dollars each, issued, two to William T. Barry, and one to James Haggin, payable to them or bearer. The Treasurer refused to receive these warrants in discharge of the demand, alleging some illegality against them, whereupon the clerk refused to pay his account as certified, declaring that he would rely on these warrants, and the tender thereof to the Treasury, in defence to any motion or suit, which might be brought against him, for the amount of revenue due from him. These were the discounts allowed by the court. Defendant, clerk of the county court, offers, the at treasury, in payment of the taxes due from him, warrants in favor of Barry and Haggin, which were refused by the treasurer, but allowed by the court. An act of Assembly, 1 Dig. L. K. 133, provides, that "all warrants which are or shall be issued by the Auditor upon the Treasurer, for any money whatever, shall be receivable in discharge of any taxes hereafter to be collected in this Commonwealth." This act is relied on as settling the present question, and as imposing a duty upon the Treasurer to receive these warrants, and that as he failed to do so, the court was therefore right in allowing them. Act directing the warrants to be received by the treasurer. It is true, that this section places the Auditor's warrants, measurably on the same footing of moneys receivable at the Treasury, and the offer of them may be counted a species of tender, or at least, a claim of them as a discount; and if the court would have been justifiable in tolerating a plea of tender and refusal, or of a discount in favor of one of the collectors of the revenue against the state, then there will be an argument afforded in favor of the judgment. But it is not true that every defence which may be made by one individual against another, can be made by a collector of the revenue against the state, and various reasons may be given, why a contrary rule should prevail. *3 Defence of tender or set off may not be made to the suits of the state against the collectors of the revenue. The treasury of the state is local, and not transitory, and therefore, it ought not to be compelled to meet and litigate every defence with the officers of the revenue, or to accept tenders, whenever made in a court of justice. To secure the responsibility of collectors is often difficult, and they are, and must be, held to great strictness, and deprived of some of the privileges of other defendants. On the contrary, the Treasurer is bound by bond and oath of office, to accept a proper tender of treasury funds, and can not be presumed to reject any from improper motives. If he should do so, it would be better to leave him to his responsibility to the party injured, for a breach of his official duty, or to leave the party to his remedy, to coerce the warrants by application to the judiciary, or to legislative redress, than to permit the courts, by verdicts or judgments to blend and settle accounts to, and against the state. The Treasurer is also subject to a check, and the Auditor is appointed for that purpose, in order that the funds of the state may be kept secure. Hence, the Auditor must first determine what money is to be drawn, and then must know what is drawn or paid, and if this arrangement is broken in upon by pleas of discount and tender, settled in our courts without consulting either officer, then the treasury might be insecure and its accounts confused; the revenue officers might, by such defences, delay payments, and the legislative department of the government, could not at all times be informed of the accurate state of the treasury. For these reasons, the laws in force imperiously require all the accounts of collectors to be settled with the Auditor, and paid to the Treasurer, and not tendered to him, or equalled by discounts. State is entitled to recover the amount of her demand against the collecting officer, notwithstanding his tender at the treasury, and in court of warrants on the treasury, made receivable for the taxes. Indeed, in a research we have been enabled, to make, we have been able to find no case where either the government of England, Virginia, Kentucky or the United States have permitted, of course, and as matter of right, a plea of tender or discount in behalf of a collector of revenue, when sued for money collected, and in his hands, and not accounted for, and the silence of the law on that subject is evidence that there is no such rule. It is true, cases are found in the courts of the United States where public money has been placed in the hands of public agents, to be expended by them for the use of the government, and they have failed to produce to the treasury department vouchers sufficient to show that they have discharged the trust by expending the whole of the money as directed; the courts have, subject to some limitation hereafter to be noticed, permitted vouchers to be produced lessening the demand, on actions against them for balances in their hands, provided those vouchers tended to show that the money was expended as intended. This is not proving discounts, but payments according to the duty of the agent; nor is it proving a tender; nor can it be believed, that an offer to pay it as directed, would excuse the delinquent from restoring it to the treasury. Moreover, all such accounts before they are allowed by a court, must first be tendered at a proper department, and claimed as an allowance, and if rejected, the court barely revises that decision. So that for the purpose of keeping accounts correctly, the accounting officer must in that case be consulted. And all this is not in the case of officers indebted for revenue collected, but in the case of public agents authorized to pay out and expend the money. *4 Practice in England and America in the settlement of treasury accounts. In accordance with these principles of strictness in settling the accounts of collectors. it will be found that our statutes have proceeded; and that they must be held conclusive of this question. The constitution itself speaks of a quietus, as necessary evidence in favor of collectors, when it declares that none should be eligible to the legislature, until they shall have obtained a quietus for the amount of their collection. Nothing but a quietus from the auditor of public accounts, is admissible in the defense of a motion of the state against a collector of the taxes. The act regulating the duties of the Auditor, 1 Dig. L. K., 129, not only directs him to keep and settle the accounts of collectors, but declares that in legal proceedings against them for not settling, "though it should appear that the defendant oweth no balance to the public, yet his having failed to render an account to the Auditor, and to take from him his quietus, shall subject him to the payment of all costs," of the proceeding. The same act directs that he shall keep a book for the purpose of entering the Treasurer's receipts of all money paid into the Treasury by Sheriffs, &c. How he gets those receipts, and also what a quietus is, and how obtained, is explained by an act regulating the duties of the Treasurer, 2 Dig. L. K., 1222. That act provides: "When any public debtor shall hereafter pay any sum or sums of money into the public Treasury, the Treasurer on receiving the same, shall forthwith make out a receipt for the amount, and carry the same to the Auditor, who is hereby authorized and required immediately to give to the Treasurer his receipt, or quietus therefor; and the Treasurer shall deliver the said receipt or quietus to the person who shall have paid him the sum or sums specified therein." From all this legislation about a quietus, and inference may be drawn, not that the legislature barely intended to furnish the public collector with high evidence in his favor, which should be conclusive, if he had it, and might be supplied by other proof if he had it not; but that a quietus was intended to be indispensable evidence in favor of a collector, without which he could not be excused. If this was not intended, why does not the act last recited permit the Treasurer's receipt to be delivered by him to the collector at once; and require it to be delivered to the auditor, and his quietus obtained? Does not this intimate that the treasurer's receipt acknowledging that he had actually received the money, instead of a tender or offer to pay him, would answer no beneficial purpose, and would not be evidence to acquit the collector, until a quietus was obtained? That this is the case will be found not to be left to inference only, but it is expressed by further legislation on the subject. An act of 1805, 2 Dig. L. K. 1086, provides that: *5 "If any sheriff or collector of the revenue shall not, on or before the said fifteenth day of October annually, obtain from the auditor of public accounts, a quietus in full, for all monies then due from him, it shall be the duty of the auditor of public accounts, to move, in the general court, on the third or any subsequent day of their next term, for judgment against such sheriff or collector and his security or securities for the amount due from him;" "and the said court shall proceed and enter judgment for what may appear unpaid against such sheriff and collector and his securities as heretofore directed by law." The same act, lest it might be doubtful whether clerks, who are also collectors, were included in this provision, proceeds to declare that they shall be liable to the same kind of motion, and subject to the laws respecting sheriffs. This act speaks expressly what was before intimated, and unequivocally makes the collector liable for not obtaining a quietus, which places it beyond doubt, that the quietus is indispensable evidence, and nothing less will prove payment. If then, even an actual payment, proved by any other evidence, would not excuse the delinquent, certainly a discount, or a bare tender and refusal without payment, is inadmissible. The collector here can not have his discount, but must be left to his remedy against the treasurer, by proceedings against him, or to his application to the legislature for redress. It seems that proof of the payment of the revenue into the treasury by any other evidence than the quietus of the auditor, would be no defense to a motion of the state, for failing to pay the money. We acknowledge that this construction of the acts does curtail the privilege of defense to be made by a collector, and places him on a footing different from that of other defendants in our courts, and we have no doubt, that it is necessary to do so, for the security of the revenue, and that without it, not only great confusion would be produced in the finances of the state, but many frauds would be practised on the treasury. If this defense of tender and refusal, or discount, or whatever it may be called, is allowed, what will soon be the consequence? The collectors need never settle their accounts with the proper department; for if they do, it will only acquit them of costs. They can acquire claims, which frequently float through the country as articles of speculation, and when prosecuted for defalcation, produce them as a discount on the trial, and discharge themselves, and the state will soon have to meet, in her courts, long lists of claims of witnesses, guards, venire men, constables, idiots, wolf scalps, &c. which abound, and operate as so many little streamlets, conveying the money from the treasury; and to settle them, the court would either have to impannel a jury, who might allow some and reject others, in their retirement, without a possibility of knowing what was allowed or rejected; or the court itself would have to act the part of an auditor in chancery, and make an account current, and note on record what was allowed and what was rejected. To prevent this, the state has selected its own auditor, and required every claim to pass through his hands, before any can be allowed, or any debtor be released. *6 Inconvenience which would follow the permission of the collector to rely, in his defense of the motion of the state on other evidence beside the auditor's quietus. This rigor with regard to officers of the revenue, is not new in the science of government. In England, statutes are found enabling defendants pursued for defalcations of revenue, to avail themselves of certain species of defense, which was allowed, of course, to every other defendant. The United States has subjected every delinquent to the danger of being concluded by the bare productions of transcripts from the books of the treasury. These transcripts, made out by the agents of the United States, when plaintiff, is evidence against the defendant, and it is expressly declared that no claim shall be allowed as a credit, unless it has been first tendered to the proper department and rejected. This state has also made a copy of an account from the books of the auditor, evidence against delinquent collectors, and even accounts in favor of the penitentiary, certified by the agent, are made prima facie evidence against defendants, when sued for claims due to that institution. It would shock the feelings of defendants to apply such rules to other controversies. They might cry out for justice, when bare open accounts, made out by their adversaries, were to be taken as true, until they should prove the negative, that they were not correct. Yet these rules have become necessary and have long been used without serious injustice. Acts of Congress regulating the controversies between that government and its debtors in revenue cases. It is but a continuation of the same principle giving advantage to the government in producing her evidence, that causes her to restrict the evidence of the defendant, and tie him down to a certain species, and that only to prove a particular kind of defense; that is payment, by a quietus, and not tender or discount. It is by operating on the rules of evidence, that this necessary strictness is introduced, and it all resolves itself into what is, or what is not the proper evidence to be used. The acts cited make a quietus necessary, and this answers every difficulty in construing them, when they speak of the defendants making defense and shewing nothing to be due. The question arises, by what kind of evidence is he to do this? The answer is, by the quietus which the law has required. Our legislature has tied them up to this, and has made none of the exceptions, which the laws of the United States have done, in permitting her courts to allow claims which have once been tendered and rejected at the proper department, which permission, from experience, is a provision of doubtful policy, and has often excited suspicion of fraud on the treasury. Instead of this, the legislature of this state has still reserved in its own hands, the right of allowing claims which have been rejected. Hence arises the numerous private statutes, allowing credits to collectors. Sometimes their delinquent lists have come too late or are informally certified; sometimes their books, by which they collect, differ by mistakes of the pen from those held by the auditor, and numerous other cases exist, and in some of them, the collector has paid the money into the treasury to avoid a judgment; in all such cases the legislature has interposed by numerous acts and afforded redress, have directed credits, or permitted the money wrongfully paid to be withdrawn, and in no instance, it is believed, since the commencement of the government, have their collectors applied to the courts to give those credits; and this want of an attempt heretofore in the courts, and the numerous private acts upon the subject, go far to prove the cotemporaneous exposition of the statutes, to be as we have expounded them, and that the courts are tied up to a quietus as the only defense. *7 Quietus of the auditor, and that only, is evidence of payments at the treasury. We feel no disposition to question the power of the legislation to tie down such controversies to such narrow limits, because we see nothing to prevent that department of the government from doing so, by proper rules prescribed, before the contracts of collectors are made, as it can do, even in the case of individual contracts, and as is done in the case of the act to prevent frauds and perjuries, which prohibits a plaintiff to prove a sale of land by parol contract made after the statute is passed. Legislature had power to prescribe what should be evidence in suits against her collectors on all contracts subsequent to the enactment. We would not be understood as allowing any inference to be drawn, that we disapprove the conduct of the treasurer in rejecting these warrants, or as intimating that it was his duty to have taken them. He is not before us, nor are his reasons for acting as he did presented, and he may be brought before the judiciary by mandamus, to compel him to receive them, or by some action for the injury he has occasioned by the rejection of them, if he acted wrongfully, and when this occurs it will be time enough to pronounce an opinion upon his conduct. Remedies against the treasurer for refusing to receive warrants on the treasury in payment and give his receipt. We have treated the matter, on the previous question of the nature of the defense attempted, which we think inadmissible, and if these warrants had been notes apparently, on their face, issued by the Bank of the Commonwealth, which the treasurer had rejected from suspicions that they were counterfeit, we should be bound to come to the same conclusion. A majority of the court, therefore, have concluded that the defense attempted was inadmissible, and that the court erred in setting aside the judgment and permitting it to be made. The judgment must be reversed with costs and the cause be remanded, that judgment may be entered as at first given in the court below. Mandate. CHIEF JUSTICE BIBB DISSENTING FROM THE DECISION OF THE MAJORITY OF THE COURT, DELIVERED HIS OWN OPINION, TO THE FOLLOWING EFFECT: Dissent. My opinion is, that the judgment of the general court ought to be affirmed. The objections taken to the judgment are confined by the bill of exceptions, and by the opinion which has been formed by a majority of this court-- First: To the propriety of setting aside the judgment which had been rendered by default, to let in a defense. Dissent of Ch. J. Bibb, from the opinion of the court, that in a motion of the state against a collector of taxes, no proof of payment or tender at the treasury, but the quietus of the auditor, is an available defense. Secondly: To the propriety of allowing the clerk a credit for the three warrants drawn by the auditor of public accounts, on the treasurer of the commonwealth, in favor of William T. Barry and James Haggin, respectively, No. 264, 265 and 267; on account of their salaries as judges of the court of appeals. *8 As to the first, it is agreed on all hands, that the cause for setting aside the judgment, was amply sufficient, provided the defense disclosed in the affidavit, was an allowable and available defense to the motion. I dismiss all question as to the exercise of discretion in the judge, in opening the judgment; not only because I think the judge exercised that discretion very properly, but because I do not think that a writ of error or appeal lies to incidental orders, as granting continuances, setting aside judgments by default, and such like, which are not final. The appeal, or writ of error, lies only to the final judgment. So that the question turns exclusively on the merits of the judgment as finally rendered. The second question resolves itself, in my opinion, into a plain inquiry whether the warrants allowed by the judge as a credit, were by law received at the public treasury, upon the tender thereof, made by the appellee, in payment of his account with the commonwealth. It is distinctly stated in the bill of exceptions, that those warrants had before the notice of this motion, been presented to the treasurer, and that he had refused to receive them. This fact does not depend upon the affidavit of the appellee, in shewing cause for opening the judgment by default. It is stated as a fact appearing on the trial, and admitted as a fact. That these warrants were receivable at the public treasury, and that they ought to have been received by the treasurer, and passed to the credit of the appellee, is plain. The act of 1793, 1 Digest, 133, leaves no room for doubt. It is in these words: "All warrants which are, or shall be issued by the auditor, on the treasurer, for any money whatever, shall be receivable in discharge of any taxes hereafter to be collected within this commonwealth." The account of the commonwealth, for which this motion was made against the appellee, was for taxes; it is so stated in the notice of the auditor; it so appears on the account as filed by the auditor. When these warrants were tendered to the treasurer, it was his duty to have received them from the clerk, and to have given him credit for them as for so much paid, so as to enable the clerk to close his account by paying the residue, and so obtain his quietus. This is not denied in the opinion of the majority of the court as formed; but the question is made to turn, on the propriety of receiving a plea of tender or discount from the appellee, upon the motion against him, or upon the propriety of allowing a discount or tender, in any case against the commonwealth. And the opinion from which I dissent, comes to the conclusion, that no such defense is allowable; and farther, that a quietus, signed by the auditor, is the only available defense. True it is, that the law does require that the collectors of the revenue shall settle their accounts with the auditor, and pay the balance due into the treasury; the treasurer is required to make out a receipt "for any sum or sums" of money paid, and this receipt is to be carried by the treasurer himself to the auditor, the auditor is required to make out his "receipt or quietus therefor, and the treasurer shall deliver the said receipt or quietus to the person who shall have paid him the sum or sums specified therein." (2 Digest, 1222, Sec. 14.) *9 What if the treasurer, by mistake of his duty, or from other causes, will not receive, will not make his receipt to the auditor, will not obtain from the auditor the quietus, and will not deliver it to the party entitled? Must this refusal of the treasurer, or of the auditor, to perform their respective duties, subject the collectors of the revenue to a judgment with interest thereon, after the rate of eighteen per centum per annum until paid," as given by the statute against a collector who fails to settle his accounts and obtain his quietus? Is it just, that because the treasurer refused to receive of Rodes these warrants, when tendered, that Rodes should be subjected to a judgment for the amount of those warrants, amounting to fifteen hundred dollars, together with an interest thereon after the rate of eighteen per centum per annum from the 5th December, preceding the motion until paid? It is but to state these propositions, and the injustice of rendering judgment against the collector of taxes, because the treasurer has refused to receive payment when tendered, and to perform his duties in relation to obtaining a quietus for "any sum or sums of money," is at once perceived. It requires no argument to explain it; the injustice strikes at once. The law supposes the treasurer will perform his duty, and upon that supposition, the judgment and penalty of eighteen per centum per annum, is inflicted upon a collector who fails to obtain his quietus. The opinion of the court proceeds upon the courts of justice to render judgment against the collector, in case a quietus is not produced to the court; that no tender or discount is to be gone into on the trial of the motion; that this is necessary to preserve the revenue and the mutual checks between the auditor and the treasurer. The statutes, in my opinion, speak a different language. The statute which prescribes the duty of the auditor in relation to the public accounts, (1 Digest, 129), uses this language: "to audit and enter in account all other demands for money in the treasury, made under authority of any law; to settle the accounts of all public debtors, and of all collectors of any revenue, or tax, levied by the general assembly and payable to the treasurer, or of any money due to the public; to call upon such debtors to render accounts at proper times, and on their failure so to do, to instruct the attorney general to institute proceedings at law for compelling them to justice, and though it should appear on trial, that the defendant oweth no balance to the public, yet his having failed to render an account to the auditor, and to take from him his quietus, shall subject him to the payment of all costs incurred, by such proceedings, to the commonwealth." "Justice"--"trial"--"that the defendant oweth no balance," are words employed by this act. These are all inconsistent with the idea, that the courts are to be machines for registering the account of the auditor, without regard to ""justice," without "trial," without inquiry whether "the defendant oweth." The very reason why the auditor is to move against the collector, is that he has failed to obtain "his quietus;" and yet notwithstanding no such quietus exists, the act supposes that it may "appear on the trial, that the defendant oweth no balance;" if the failure to shew a quietus in court, is to be binding on the court to render judgment against the defendant, for the full amount claimed and stated by the auditor, without discount or abatement, then the provision respecting what is to be done as to costs, where it shall appear that the defendant "oweth no balance to the public," and the other parts of this act are above quoted, are idle words without meaning. The words "failing," and """"failure," as used in this act, and in the acts giving the motions against sheriffs, clerks and other collectors of revenue, are all significant of and mean, "neglect," "to be deficient in duty;" this is the legal sense of """"falling" and "failure," as applied to the officers of the revenue; a neglect of their duty, a deficiency on their part to perform what is incumbent upon them to perform, draws down the judgment and the penalty of eighteen per centum thereon. The acts do not mean to subject the collectors, for a failure of the treasurer to perform the duties injoined upon him which are necessary to a quietus. The failure of the treasurer to receive the warrants tendered by Rodes the clerk, and the failure of the treasurer to pass his receipt therefor to the auditor, the failure of the treasurer to procure the quietus and deliver it to the appellee, as required of the treasurer by the statutes which proscribe his duties, are the causes why Rodes could not produce the quietus, and thereby forestall and prevent the motion; he had tendered these warrants in payment of his account, but the treasurer refused this payment. *10 If nothing but a quietus from the aduitor will do for a defense to the motion against a collector of the revenue, then after the collector shall have actually paid his account to the treasury the treasurer by failing to carry his receipt therefor to the auditor, or the auditor by failing to make out his receipt or quietus therefor, would subject the collection to judgment for principal and interest. The statutes in my opinion can not bear any such interpretation. The statute now in force, and under which this motion is made, speaks a very different language. The statute after making it the duty of the auditor to move the general court for judgment against any sheriff or collector who shall not within the time specified, obtain a quietus, and also against his sureties, proceeds thus: "And a memorandum shall be lodged by the auditor with the clerk of the general court, on or before the third day of the term, mentioning what sheriffs and collectors he meant to move against, and the days the motions are to be made against each, and the said court shall proceed and enter judgment for what may appear unpaid against such sheriff or collector, and his securities, as heretofore directed by law on motions, except that no notice of any kind shall be required, and except that such judgments shall be for the principal sum due, with an interest at the rate of eighteen per centum per annum, from the time the same become due until paid, in lieu of the damages and interest heretofore directed by law; but nothing in this act contained shall prevent a sheriff or collector from appearing and making any defense which he could make before the passage of this act." The same section proceeds to authorize a motion, against any clerk and his securities, who "shall fail to pay into the treasury any money by him payable there"--"in the same manner prescribed by this act for motions against sheriffs, and the like proceeding shall be had, and judgment rendered, with the like per cent per annum, as directed herein against sheriffs." (2 Dig. 1087; 3 Litt. Laws, 310.) I have looked into all the statutes relating to the revenue, and the remedies against sheriffs and collectors of the revenue, which preceded the act of 1805, just quoted, and those which succeed; and I can find not one, which, in my judgment, gives any color to the idea, that the sheriff or collector is restrained upon suit or motion, from any just defense, legal or equitable, which was allowable by plea or evidence at common law. Those which have any bearing on this subject of remedy by suit on the bond, or by motion, against sheriffs, collectors, or their deputies are the following: 1 Litt. Laws, chap. X. p. 70, which gives remedy against a delinquent sheriff, by motion on ten days' notice, for the amount due, with fifteen per centum damages, together with an interest of five per cent on the whole amount, and costs of motion, and expenses of giving notice; same vol. p. 83, which gives remedy by action on the bond, or by motion on ten days' notice, against the obligors, for breach of the condition on the bond; same vol. p. 214, p. 581-660-661-669; vol. 2d, p. 322-323. *11 The defense to a motion or to a suit against a sheriff or collector, is not restrained by any prohibitory act; and in my opinion every just defense to the motion, or to the suit by the auditor on behalf of the commonwealth, by evidence, or by plea, and evidence under the general issue, or any special plea, either in bar, or in discount as at common law, and of payment, or discount in nature of payments, for claims and warrants authorized to be taken by the sheriffs and collectors in payment of the revenue by various statutory provisions, are all allowable and unrestrained. A tender to the treasurer, of money or warrants or other allowances, which the statutes permit and authorize the sheriffs or collectors to take and demand credit for, and refusal by him; or tender of claims to the auditor, in settlement of the account, which the sheriff or collector is entitled to have allowed at the auditor's office, so as to strike the balance to be certified to the treasurer, to be there paid, if refused, is an allowable and available defense to a motion or suit. I see nothing in the statutes which puts the sheriffs or collectors of the revenue in the power of the auditor or the treasurer, by their mistakes, misjudgments, or failures in their duties, to be subjected to unjust judgments with heavy interest, by way of penalty or damages. It is said, a tender and payment into court will derange the accounts of the treasurer and auditor, and the checks of the one office upon the other. I do not see how. The commonwealth is represented in court by the auditor and the attorney general; either of those officers can inform the treasurer, of the money paid into court; the treasurer is the proper officer of the government to withdraw the money; and upon taking it out of court, to make his receipt therefor; to pass a receipt to the auditor, take a quietus therefor, and deliver it to the sheriff, or collector, or defendant to the suit, entitled to it, as in any other case of payment. Thus the accounts at the treasury office, and at the auditor's office, will stand as if the treasurer had performed his duty in the first instance, as soon as the treasurer withdraws these warrants and passes his receipt therefor into the auditor's office as, he is bound to do; and if he fails to do so, the records of the court, and the auditor and the attorney general are sufficient checks and safeguards upon the treasurer. Are the accounts at the Treasury office and at the auditor's office, more deranged by the payment into the general court, than by a judgment for the full amount and a payment thereof to the sergeant or to a sheriff upon execution? How does the money get from the hands of the sheriff or sergeant, when collected on execution, into the treasury? and how is it then accounted for? I see nothing in the system of revenue adopted by the legislature, or in any act giving remedy against delinquent sheriffs, clerks, or other collectors of taxes, or revenue, which wears the appearance of intent in the legislature, to prevent any legal and just defense. A court is defined to be "a place where justice is judicially administered." I see nothing in the statutes providing remedies against public debtors, which manifests a disposition in the legislature, to convert this court or any inferior court into a place where acts of injustice, committed on collectors of the taxes and revenue, by an officer of the executive department, are to be registered and sanctioned. I will not, by anticipation, discuss the authority of the legislative department of the government, so to abuse the judicial department as to command the judges to erect a court of Star Chamber, and to issue from thence precepts of oppression and injustice. In my opinion the legislature have not authorized the auditor of public accounts to expect from the judicial department an unjust sentence in favor of the commonwealth as plaintiff, founded on a mistaken sense of duty of any officer of the executive department. To institute proceedings at law against public debtors "for compelling them to justice," without preventing them "from appearing and making any defense which he could make before the passage of the act," are the expressions used by the legislature to convey their intentions and expectations; leaving to the courts of justice their full power to correct the mistakes and misconstructions of the auditor and treasurer. If the sheriff or other collector of the revenue does not settle and obtain his quietus he is subjected to costs, "though it should appear he oweth no balance to the public;" this, with other incapacities for office until their accounts are finally closed, are the safeguards provided; the commonwealth pays no costs. And it does appear to me, to be in the very teeth of the statutes themselves, to render judgment against the defendant, who was prevented by the treasurer from obtaining his quietus, and who brings into court the payment tendered and refused by the treasurer, and which the treasurer was bound to receive. Denny, attorney general, for the commonwealth; Haggin and Loughborough, for Rodes and securities. Ky.App. 1827. Commonwealth v. Rodes 5 T.B.Mon. 318, 21 Ky. 318, 1827 WL 1558 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
