(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 330,  19 Ky. 330 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1306 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lansdale v. Brashear. Oct. 18, 1826. *1 Statutes. Limitation. Bar by Lapse of Time. Merchants Accounts. Partners. APPEAL FROM THE NELSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 29(4) 241 Limitation of Actions 241I Statutes of Limitation 241I(B) Limitations Applicable to Particular Actions 241k29 Accounts 241k29(4) k. Partnership Accounts. Most Cited  Cases Accounts which concern the trade of merchandise between merchants are subject to no bar, whether the last item be within the term of limitation or not;  but partners in farming and raising stock for market are not merchants, nor are their accounts within the exception of the statute of limitations. Partnership 289 k 321 289 Partnership 289VII Dissolution, Settlement, and Accounting 289VII(D) Actions for Dissolution and Accounting 289k321 k. Time to Sue, Limitations, and Laches. Most Cited  Cases Accounts between partners are not merchants' accounts, within the exception in the statute of limitations. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Question stated. The principal question in this cause, is whether the plea of the statute of limitations, relied on, in the answer of the defendant to a bill in equity, ought to be allowed as a bar to the claim. The parties had united their force and their means, as partners in farming, on a farm of the defendant, and continued during the years 1810 and 1811. They also, erected some buildings, and each expended money therein, and they commenced a hemp factory, which they never completed. Their object in farming, appears to have been to raise hemp, as well as cattle and hogs for market; and at the close of the last year, the complainant descended the river Mississippi, laden with a cargo of articles of trade taken from the farm, and disposed of it, and the parties, on his return, finding the business not profitable, abandoned their partnership pursuits. There does not appear to have been any formal dissolution, but a complete abandonment for upwards of five years, before this suit was commenced. There was no account ever stated, or settled between them, at any time, nor any progress made towards a settlement. Statement of the facts. The complainant filed this bill for an account, claiming a large balance in his favor, if the accounts of profit and loss and expenses were settled. Bill for an account between partners. The defendant answered, admitting the partnership, contesting the claims set up, and relying on the statute of limitations to bar the account. Answer relying on the statute of limitations. The complainant made proof, conducing strongly to shew that the defendant was in arrears, and sufficient in our opinion, to entitle him to an account, and a decree in his favor, if lapse of time does not put an end to his claim. *2 The force of the statute of limitations consists in making time alone evidence that the claim has been released, discharged, or abandoned____ The court below disallowed the account, and that decree we have to revise. Whatever may be said, of the supposed dishonor attached to the defense afforded by the statute, it is necessary in every country, for the repose of society, and indeed to prevent injustice, by cutting off claims easily defeated when recent, but formidable after casualties have cut off testimony once existing, and the force of the statute consists in making time itself evidence, that the claim barred by it has been released, discharged or abandoned. Therefore On this principle, courts of equity have noticed, and acknowledged obedience to the statute, although neither our statute, nor that of the country from which our jurisprudence is derived do in their terms apply to suits in equity of any character. Yet in many cases, where equity has original and exclusive jurisdiction, and where courts of law could give no redress, courts of equity have compared them with analogous cases at law, and applied the same bar, which courts of law found in the statute. On this principle, this court, in deciding on bills brought to set up special entries, and thereby to take the soil from the occupant of an ancient settlement, (a case where courts of law could afford no redress), has likened the cases to ejectments, and applied the bar of twenty years. An adherence to this decision, and its being followed in our landed controversies, by the supreme court of the nation, has swept from our dockets, many chancery suits, which might at this late day, when witnesses are dead and removed, have disquieted and recovered the homes of many. A like bar in equity, must of course, apply strongly to cases where chancery has concurrent jurisdiction with a court of law, or where the chancellor is authorized by statute to effectuate legal rights. Equity on the principle of the evidence, applies the statute to both the cases of its concurrent and exclusive jurisdiction. But partners, as these litigants are, have, in general, no redress at law against each other, especially when there is, as here, no written covenant evidencing the partnership, but must apply to a court of equity, and we know of no action at law, which could have been brought in this case. For if it be admitted that an action of account will lie between partners, (a point on which the authorities are not clear), we should still, doubt its application to this case, where other articles besides money, must be taken into the account. Of course, this case must be taken as one exclusively and properly belonging to a court of equity. Accounts of money and property between partners, are exclusively of equity jurisdiction. But while this is conceded, we do not perceive any reason for exempting it from the influence of the principles above stated, or relieving it from a bar which is fatal to other cases exclusively equitable, especially as there is no reason assigned for the delay, other than that arising from the confidence reposed in the defendant because he was the relation of the plaintiff. There is nothing in the act which exempts partners from its operation in their contests with each other. They stand on a footing with other citizens, and of course, ought to be placed on the same ground by the decrees of the chancellor. *3 Demands of one partner on another, are within the operation of the statute of limitations. It may be contended, that the exception in our statute, which excepts "such accounts as concern the trade of merchandise, between merchant and merchant, their factors or servants," applies to, and has a bearing on this case, and ought to save the complainant from the operation of the statute. British decisions on their statute of limitations, are not adhered to in the application of our statute. In this respect, our statute is expressed in the same words with the British statute, and of course, the construction of their courts may be supposed to shed some light on the subject. In the case of Bell v. Rowland's adm'r Har. 301; this court found it necessary to depart widely, from the construction of the British courts on their statute, and has ever since adhered to that departure. This happened on a part of the statute different from that now under consideration. But after looking into their decisions on this part of the statute now before us, we feel ourselves compelled to make another departure, almost as wide as the former. One of these cases, is Webber v. Tivill, 2 Saund. 124; and a neat summary of the doctrine of many more will be found in a note of the learned annotator on that work, page 126, no. 6. But the most complete collection and review of the whole, which has fallen under the observation of this court, will be found in the case of Coster and al. v. Murray and Murray, 5 John. Cha. Rep. 522, made by chancellor Kent, of New York. Among the numerous decisions which there appear, there will be found great conflict and contradiction, and frequent change of sides and positions. From the whole, it will be seen, that the following doctrines have been maintained by the weight of authority, which may be supposed to have some bearing on this cause. References to the British cases of limitations. It is admitted by those authorities, that in any case brought on an open account, whether between merchant and merchant, or between other persons, if there be a few or the last item of an account within the six years of their statute, the whole account is excepted from the statute, and can not be barred by it. This forms a new exception to the statute not contained in its letter, and wholly incompatible with former decisions of this court; but it can not aid the complainant in this case, if correct, because there are no accounts within the five years, and still less can it aid, because it is a broad exception, which in a great measure repeals the statute, and for that reason it is deemed wholly incorrect, and untenable. That one item of an account was within the time saved the whole in England, but not so here. But while the effect of the statute is thus destroyed, by excepting a multitude of cases, it will be found, on perusing these authorities or a majority of them at least, the accounts between merchant and merchant are not only blended and confounded with accounts of another kind, by placing them on the same footing, but the exception itself of merchant's accounts, is virtually repealed, by deciding that no such account is without the operation of the statute, if all dealings had ceased for more than six years before the action or suit brought, and there was no item within that time. This is too limited a construction of the exception, as well as too wide, for the main provisions of the statute. The exception certainly intended by the phrase "such accounts as concern the trade of merchandise between merchant and merchant, their factors or servants," to distinguish a certain class of accounts from others, and to place them on a more privileged footing, and that construction which brings them to the same level with others, or raises others to the same privilege, can not be correct. *4 British decisions on the exception of accounts between merchants, not approved. We, therefore, conclude, that all accounts, which can with propriety, come properly and naturally under the appellation of accounts which concern the trade of merchandise, between merchant and merchant, are placed on a more favored footing than other accounts, and that they are subject to no bar, whether the last item be within the term of limitation or not. This conclusion is supported by the supreme court of the United States, in the case of  Mandeville and Jameson v. Wilson, 5 Cranch, 15. This construction of the statute, we conceive will furnish a more plain, and practicable rule of decision, and will extricate us from the winding and intricate mazes of British authorities, which perplex their own courts, and have left the question to the latest hour unsettled, and forms now in their courts what chancellor Kent has properly said, may with propriety, be called questio vexata. Accounts which concern the trade of merchandize between merchant and merchant, are not within the general provisions of the statute of limitations whether the last item be within the time or not. Applying this construction to the case before us, we have only to ascertain what kind of "accounts concern the trade of merchandise, between merchant and merchant," or rather, whether the accounts now under consideration, come within that description. If they do, there is no bar. If they do not, the account ought to be refused. We waive the question, whether accounts between partners in merchandise, can be included in the exception, or whether the accounts excepted must be created between strangers, not jointly concerned in interest-- and admitting for the sake of argument, that accounts between partners in merchandise, are embraced, we are clearly of opinion, that these partners can not be called merchants, and that the account in contest is not an account created between merchant and merchant, arising from the trade of merchandise. It may in some cases be difficult to ascertain, whether certain dealers or traders can be called merchants, or whether their accounts belong to the privileged class; but in this case, this difficulty does not occur. Quere--Whether the exception of accounts between merchants, embraces accounts between merchant partners. In Jacob's Law Dictionary, vol. 4, page 275, merchant is defined as follows: "One who buys and trades in any thing; and as merchandise includes all goods and wares exposed to sale in fairs or markets, so the word merchant, formerly extended to all sorts of traders, buyers and sellers. But every one who buys and sells is not, at this day under the denomination of a merchant. Only those who traffic in the way of commerce, by importation, or exportation, or carry on business by way of emption, vendition, barter, permutation, or exchange, and who make it their living to buy and sell, by a continued assiduity or frequent negotiation, in the mystery of merchandise, are esteemed merchants. Those who buy goods to reduce them by their own art or industry into other forms, and then to sell them, are artificers, not merchants. Bankers and such as deal in exchange are properly called merchants." *5 Definition of merchant. Now, it will be seen at once, that these partners, in the business they were pursuing, fall so far short of coming within the description here given--and the accounts raised in that business, are so variant from what merchants would create in their pursuits, that there is no necessity of pointing out the distinction in detail. But on the first blush, it will be evident that neither the persons, nor their accounts can come within the exception in the statute. Partners in farming and raising stock, though carried by themselves to market at N. Orleans, are not merchants, and so their accounts are not within that exception of the statute of limitations. The court below, therefore, did right in sustaining the plea, and refusing an account, and the decree must consequently be affirmed with costs. Crittenden for appellant; Charles Wickliffe, for appellees. Ky.App. 1826. Lansdale v. Brashear 3 T.B.Mon. 330, 19 Ky. 330, 1826 WL 1306 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
