(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 424,  19 Ky. 424 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1333 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Chitty and McClain v. Glenn. Dec. 21, 1826. *1 Delivery Bonds. Statutes. Judgments. Executions. Constitutional Law. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Constitutional Law 92 k 951 92 Constitutional Law 92VI Enforcement of Constitutional Provisions 92VI(B) Estoppel, Waiver, or Forfeiture 92k951 k. Reliance on Statute or Availment of Statutory  Benefits. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 92k43(2)) A plaintiff, who has an execution issued and indorsed under the law, authorizing lands to be sold on a credit of one year, and by his agent has bid at the sale, cannot object to the constitutionality of the act. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the facts. The defendant in error obtained a joint judgment against the plaintiff in an action of debt, and on an execution of fieri facias, the sheriff returned that it was levied, and delivery bond taken and forfeited, or not complied with at the day of sale. On this bond, the defendant in error obtained a judgment on notice and motion, against the security alone, omitting the principals, who are the plaintiffs in error, and then again resorted to his original judgment, disregarding the delivery bond, and issued a second execution thereon. The plaintiffs in error then moved to set aside this last execution on the judgment, relying on the ground that the delivery bond was a discharge of the original judgment, and that the defendant in error could not treat the delivery bond as a nullity, especially after he had proceeded to judgment thereon against the surety. The court overruled that motion, and to reverse that decision, the writ of error is prosecuted. Before the late derangement of our execution system by numerous legislative provisions, the defendant generally in an original execution, could give a delivery bond, which if not complied with, had the force of a judgment like a replevin bond, and thereon the plaintiff could, without motion, issue execution on which no security could be taken. A return of such bonds has, by a contemporaneous construction, been considered as discharging or extinguishing the original judgment, so that the owner of the judgment could not resort to the judgment until the bond was quashed or set aside. Formerly, the execution and forfeiture of a delivery bond for property, which had the force of a judgment discharged or extinguished the original judgment, and no execution could afterwards go on it. This practice was changed by an act passed on the 21st day of December, in the year 1821, directing a notice and motion to be made before an execution can be obtained on the delivery bond, and that for no more than the property seized by the first fieri facias is worth in the estimation of the sheriff, and after that estimate is proved and disproved by the parties, on a trial for that purpose. What will become of the original judgment, if the property contained in the delivery bond falls short of its amount, is not told in the act. Whether no further execution can issue thereon, or whether the judgment obtained on the delivery bond is a satisfaction pro tanto, and the plaintiff may have recourse to the original judgment for the residue, is a question we need not solve in this case. For if the first was the intention of the legislature, then the plaintiff below could not go back as he has attempted to do, consistently with the provisions of the act. If the latter be the legislative sense, the plaintiff below, now defendant in error, has obtained judgment on the delivery bond against the surety, for the full amount of his original judgment, and therefore the whole first judgment is substituted by the second, and we concur in the common opinion that the intention of the legislature was, to forbid a recurrence to the original judgment, till the delivery bond is disposed of. *2 So is the effect of the delivery bonds, under the act of '21, at least to the extent of the judgment recovered upon them by the motion prescribed. But it is contended earnestly, that this act relative to the delivery bonds, and the consequent delay and risk of notice and motion, is unconstitutional and void, and of course the defendant in error was authorized to treat the delivery bond as a nullity, and resort again to his judgment. It must be confessed, that this act has the principle of delay in it, and it is easy to conceive, that a delivery bond for the whole amount, possessing from it origin per se, the force of a judgment may be more valuable than one for an uncertain amount, to be relitigated in court by notice and motion, which is a quasi suit. But there is no necessity imposed upon us to decide upon the constitutionality of this law, in favor of this defendant in error. For if, for the sake of argument, it be conceded that the act is unconstitutional, he had his election to reject the bond when it was returned, and after disposing of the sheriff's return, to issue a new execution on the judgment, or he might waive his constitutional privilege and enforce the bond. If he had chosen the former course, he might have imposed upon us the disagreeable necessity of deciding whether this act is or is not unconstitutional. But he has chosen the latter, and enforced the bond against the surety by a judgment, and he can not now be permitted to turn back and make the first question, but must be held to his choice, as was held by this court in the case of Hansford et. al. v. Barbour, 3 Marsh, 515. Query, as to the constitutionality of the act of '21 as to delivery bonds.-- But-- Where the plaintiff moves upon the delivery bond and obtains a judgment, he can not afterwards question the constitutionality of its law, and resort to his original judgment. The judgment overruling the motion must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below, to quash the executtion with costs. Caperton for plaintiffs; Turner for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Chitty v. Glenn 3 T.B.Mon. 424, 19 Ky. 424, 1826 WL 1333 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
