(Cite as: 5 Litt. 49,  15 Ky. 49 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1372 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Moore v. Simpson. Apr. 10, 1824. *1 FROM GALLATIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Attachment 44 k 68 44 Attachment 44III Proceedings to Procure 44III(A) Jurisdiction and Venue 44k68 k. Jurisdiction of Courts of Equity. Most Cited  Cases If a debtor abandons the country, and leaves effects in the possession of others, a court of equity will entertain jurisdiction of the case, and afford the appropriate relief. Attachment 44 k 186 44 Attachment 44VI Custody and Disposition of Property 44k186 k. Custody and Care of Property. Most Cited Cases Where a slave is attached as the property of a nonresident, and the resident defendants fail to give security for its delivery over to plaintiff, he must account for the profits up to the time it is sold. Attachment 44 k 215 44 Attachment 44VII Proceedings to Support or Enforce 44k215 k. Writ of Inquiry. Most Cited Cases An interlocutory order and assessment of damages may be made at the term to which an order of publication is returned. Covenants 108 k 136 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k133 Trial 108k136 k. Verdict and Findings. Most Cited  Cases Where complainant alleges that the damage occasioned by a breach of covenant cannot be less than a certain sum, without suggesting that it is no more, a verdict for a greater amount is good. Equity 150 k 359 150 Equity 150VII Dismissal Before Hearing 150k359 k. Voluntary Dismissal. Most Cited Cases Where, in a suit against an absent debtor, resident garnishees, who are essential to the existence of the suit, are made parties defendant, and complainant, after getting possession of defendant's estate, dismisses his suit as to such resident defendants, the whole suit is thereby destroyed, and the bill must be dismissed. Equity 150 k 380 150 Equity 150VIII Hearing, Submission of Issues to Jury, and Rehearing 150k376 Submission of Issues to Jury 150k380 k. Proceedings at Trial. Most Cited  Cases A party has a right to introduce parol evidence before a jury, on a question of damages for nonperformance of a covenant, unles expressly restrained by the chancellor. Husband and Wife 205 k 21 205 Husband and Wife 205I Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities 205k20 Agency of Wife for Husband 205k21 k. In General. Most Cited Cases An agent and wife of an absent defendant, being in possession of such defendant's property, are necessary parties to the suit, as it is only in cases where residents hold property of absent defendants or owe them debts that chancery has jurisdiction. BIBB for plaintiffs; TODD for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 The complainant in the court below, now defendant in error, presented his bill, alleging that Jaba Moore had sold him a house unfinished, and had entered into articles of agreement, or executed a written instrument, engaging to have the house finished and specifying what was to be done thereto, and to surrender possession of it; that the possession was surrendered, but nothing was done toward the completion of the house; that Moore had left the commonwealth with an intention of never returning, as the plaintiff believed, and was engaged in the South American armies; that he had left a few slaves, and a number of articles of personal estate, specified in the bill in the possession of his wife, who still held them; and, also, a certain David Gibson, professed to be the agent of said Moore, and to control his property. He prays that the said Gibson and the wife of said Moore, whom he made defendants, may be restrained from disposing of said estate, and that on his giving bond and security, it might be delivered over to him, or placed in the hands of a receiver, until the final decree, unless the defendants or some of them, would give bond and security to have the estate forthcoming, to answer the decree of the court; that the demand might be liquidated and a decree entered for the amount, to be satisfied out of the effects attached. If a debtor has abandoned the country, and left effects in the possession of others, a court of equity will entertain jurisdiction of the case, and afford the appropriate relief. Non est inventus can only be returned where the defendant has a known place of residence in the county. An interlocutory order and assessment of damages may be made at the term to which an order of publication is returned. Against Moore publication was made. The sheriff took some of the estate specified in the bill, and the defendants having failed to give bond and security, it was delivered over to the complainant, he having given bond. At the first term to which the publication was returned, the court below, by an interlocutory order, empanelled a jury to inquire into the damages sustained by the complainant for non-performance of this covenant, and they found the sum of one thousand dollars, and at the next term, the court decreed the amount thereof to be satisfied by the sale of the articles attached. But pending the suit and before this decree, the complainant discontinued the suit, both as to Gibson, the agent, and the wife of Moore, who had been made parties as garnishees. To reverse this decree, Moore has prosecuted this writ of error. On an inquiry of damages, in such case, or an issue of fact ordered by the chancellor, parol evidence may be given, unless the chancellor orders otherwise. There is doubt, whether the written evidence on file in such a case can be used before the jury, without express directions. It is now contended that the cause of complaint is purely legal, and that the complainant is not entitled to this remedy in equity. It must be confessed that the demand is purely legal, and would properly support an action at law, and, according to the usual mode, a bill in equity could not be sustained thereon. But it does not from thence follow, that the bill cannot be supported; for no action at law in the usual course of the common law could be sustained, for the want of service of process upon Moore. And the legislature, by allowing parties to proceed against absent defendants in equity, for any debts or demands against them, must have intended to supply this defect of legal remedy, and where there were effects belonging to such absentees, in the state, to permit the complaining parties to sue in a court of equity, and proceed in rem, whether their demands were legal or equitable. Hence if the situation of the defendant comes within the act, it has been held a good excuse for bringing a legal demand into a court of equity. The objection urged against this, is, that at common law if a return of non est inventus is made, a statute authorizes an attachment at law, and that the complainant in this case ought to have resorted to that method. To this it may be answered, that to warrant such a return at law, the defendant must have a known and usual place of residence, or be commorant in the county, and have no known place of residence, as was held by this court in the case of Sneed v. Weister, &c. 2 Marsh. 277, and in subsequent cases; and it does not appear that the defendant here had such known and usual place, immediately before his departure, or that he now belongs to the county, but the contrary. Besides our act of assembly which permits such proceedings, 1 Dig. L. K. 58, expressly applies the proceeding to cases not only where defendants are out of the country; but where, upon inquiry at their usual places, they can not be found, so as to be served with process; thus, expressly including cases which might come within the act regulating the proceedings at common law, and thereby allowing the chancellor concurrent authority, in some of the cases, with a court of law. As the defendant below, in this case, was shown not only to be out of the country, but to have abandoned it, and to have effects in it in possession of other, we conceive that the plaintiff was authorized to bring his demand before a court of equity. *3 The claim being unliquidated, it is not a good objection, that the complainant has not charged a sum certain, as being due. The resident defendants failing to give security for the forthcoming of the property, it may be delivered ov?? to the complainant, and he must account for the profits, up to the time it is sold. Such profits must also be ascertained by the jury. The decree is final, although the commissioner appointed to make sale of the property may not have reported. An agent, and the wife of the defendant, as garnishees or possessors of his property, should be made parties. It is insisted that it was error in the court below, to make an interlocutory order, and assess the damages by a jury, at the term to which the order of publication was returned. To this the case of Duly v. Bedford, 1 Marsh. 222, is a sufficient answer. It is objected that there is no testimony apparent in the record showing the amount of damages sustained, and no order permitting parol evidence to be introduced, and, therefore, there is nothing to support the verdict. It is true, that it is the general mode of proof in a court of equity, that the testimony shall be reduced to writing; but it does not follow, that written evidence alone shall be used on an inquiry of damages or an issue of fact, submitted by the chancellor to the finding of a jury. It is true, the application of the general practice to such cases, has been intimated by this court, in the case of  Owens v. Owens, Hard. 154; but the contrary practice is adopted in the case of  Reading v. Ford's administrator and heirs, 1 Bibb 338. In choosing between these two cases, we have no hesitation in preferring the latter, as most conformable to principle. It is by statutory provisions and the combination of the powers of the chancellor and those of the common law judge, in the same persons, that the practice of empannelling juries in chancery has been introduced. Under different circumstances, the chancellor could not have one summoned; but must send the case to a court of law, there to be tried on a feigned issue. In transmitting the cause to the common law tribunal, the chancellor directed how the issue should be formed, and what should or should not be relied on, on each side, as cause of action or defense, and sometimes what evidence should be used, especially that part of the chancery papers which he deemed proper and pertinent. If the evidence to be used on such issues was not restricted by the directions of the chancellor, the case was left at large as other trials at law and oral testimony, or such as belong to a court of law could be there used. When our practice, then, of calling juries at the bar of the chancellor, is assimilated to these proceedings, for which it is substituted, and tested by them, it will clearly follow, that the testimony of witnesses viva voce, may be used, except where the chancellor has directed to the contrary; and when the finding of the jury is not supported by the written evidence on file, the presumption is fair, that parol evidence was introduced, and that presumption must stand until the contrary appears. The introduction of such evidence before the jury, was, in this case, a matter of course, and the party was entitled to use it, unless the chancellor had expressly restrained it, which he has not done. There is more doubt whether the written evidence on file could be used without express directions, than there is that parol evidence could. *4 A wife may be the agent of her husband, or protect and manage his property in his absence. A court of equity has not jurisdiction in such case, unless some person resident here, is indebted to the defendant or has possession of his estate. If such resident garnishees are first made parties, and the complainant then gets possession of the defendant's estate, and dismisses his suit as to the resident defendants, his bill must be dismissed absolutely. It is further insisted that the amount found by the jury is greater than that claimed in the bill, and therefore the verdict ought not to have been allowed to stand. To this it may be answered, that the bill does not fix the exact amount; but, on the contrary, alleges its uncertainty, and declares it can not be less than a certain sum, without suggesting that it is no more. This is only a conscientious and prudent mode of stating what was unliquidated and unknown, and ought not to bind the complainant to the sum suggested, as the statement of damages in a declaration at law, especially as it was not practicable to ascertain the true amount, and he was not bound to swear to too much, for the purpose of obtaining enough. It is also contended, that as there was one slave taken by the sheriff and delivered over to the complainant, with whom the slave remained while the suit was pending, the court ought to have ascertained the hire of this slave and set it off against the amount decreed. This exception is well taken. As the complainant, by taking the slave into his own possession under the statute, became his own receiver, he ought to account for the profits up to the time the slave is disposed of. It is said, in reply to this, that it does not appear that the slave in such an one, as that his hire would be of any value. To this we reply, that the presumption is otherwise; and it was the duty of the court to ascertain and determine that matter. It is said that the complainant can give the credit on the coming in of the report of the sale. We answer, this would be permitting the complainant to assess the hire himself, and leaving him at liberty to give the credit or not. It is also said, that the court could do this on the coming in of the report, and that the decree is interlocutory only, and, therefore, the writ of error will not lie. In reply, we view this decree as final, settling the whole controversy as well as the costs, and all the court hereafter can do, is, to effectuate it by decretal orders. It is no more interlocutory, because an order has issued to a commissioner, directing him to execute it, and to report his proceedings, than if an execution for the amount had gone to the sheriff, and he had not returned it. It is also assigned as error, that the complainant below erred in discontinuing his bill before the decree, both as to the agent and wife of the defendant, and, therefore, he was entitled to no decree against the principal. This assignment is well founded. The agent who had the control of the estate, was the representative of the defendant, and therefore, a proper party. It is urged that he is not positively charged to be agent; but the bill states, that he professes to be so, and his answer would have determined this matter. If he showed himself agent, he ought to have been heard in behalf of himself and principal. If he denied the agency, it would then have appeared, that he was an improper party, and he might have been dismissed without prejudice to the suit; but as the record now stands, he is the professed agent, and is prevented from being heard, because he is no party. The dismission, as to him, was, therefore, a mismanagement of the suit. Nor is the discontinuance as to the wife, in a better situation. It could not be right for the complainant, so soon as he succeeded in getting hold of the effects, to dismiss the garnishees or possessors of the property. It is urged that the wife was not properly made a defendant to such a controversy. It is true, the wife was not subject to a suit on the contract of her husband; but she may be the agent of her husband, and as such, she may not only keep, but manage and protect his property in his absence; and we are aware, that such agency, custody and preservation of his property in his absence, are not unusual in this country. She is charged to be in possession of this estate, and those in possession, are expressly required to be made defendants, by the act regulating this proceeding. As such, in her representative character, and in right of her husband, she might be made a defendant and be heard, although she had no legal interest, and in this instance, she was properly made a party, and discontinuing the suit, as to her, was improper. Indeed, by discontinuing the suit against both the wife and agent of the principal defendant, the right of the plaintiff to proceed any further, was destroyed; for by the act of assembly which governs and authorizes these proceedings, it is only in cases where others, holding possession of the estate of absentees, or owing them debts, resident here, are or can be made defendants, that a complaining party is authorized to proceed. Such a state of case is necessary to give the chancellor jurisdiction. The court below ought, therefore, on the discontinuance, thus far to have dismissed the bill. *5 Some difficulty occurs as to what ought to be done with the cause now. It has been usual with this court, when suits are reversed for want of proper parties, to send them back with directions to permit such parties to be made, and the present defendant in error may claim the same indulgence; but his case is different from those where proper parties are omitted. He has made them as essential to the existence of his suit, and then has dismissed them, and thereby destroyed the suit. We, therefore, conceive that his bill must now be dismissed. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below to dismiss the bill without prejudice to any other suit for the same cause of complaint. Ky.App. 1824. Moore v. Simpson 5 Litt. 49, 15 Ky. 49, 1824 WL 1372 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
