(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 339,  22 Ky. 339 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1694 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bowman v. Green and Morton. Dec. 21, 1827. *1 Variance. Judgments. Executors. Amendments. Appeal to the Circuit Court. ERROR TO THE BULLITT CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 147(1) 231 Justices of the Peace 231V Review of Proceedings 231V(A) Appeal and Error 231k142 Decisions Reviewable 231k147 Nature, Scope, and Effect of  Decision 231k147(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Appeal lies to correct a judgment of a justice de bonis propriis or testatoris, where it ought to have been quando acciderint. Justices of the Peace 231 k 191(3) 231 Justices of the Peace 231V Review of Proceedings 231V(A) Appeal and Error 231k191 Liabilities on Bonds and Other Securities 231k191(3) k. Accrual and Extent of Liability. Most  Cited Cases Appeal and Error 30 k 1232 30 Appeal and Error 30XVIII Liabilities on Bonds and Undertakings 30k1228 Accrual or Release of Liability by Breach or Fulfillment of Conditions 30k1232 k. Affirmance or Reversal of Judgment or Order. Most  Cited Cases Where the judgment of the justice against an executor is de bonis propriis and he appeals, and judgment is rendered against him for the same sum de bonis testatoris, the condition of the appeal bond is not forfeited. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of covenant, brought on a bond taken to the plaintiff in the court below, on the prosecution of an appeal against him, from a judgment of a justice of the peace to the circuit court. It is several, against the surety only, omitting the principals; and a verdict and judgment was rendered against the obligor in the bond, and ??hat judgment we have to revise. Covenant on an appeal bond, in case of an appeal to the circuit court. The defendant below craved oyer, and demurred, and also filed pleas to the merits. The demurrer was overruled. We conceive the demurrer ought ??o have been sustained. The declaration is unskil??ully drafted. But if we wink at its numerous de??ects in form, and its almost unintelligible language, ??here is a variance between the bond declared on, ??nd that produced on oyer, which must be held fatal. The bond set out in the declaration, is stated to be the bond of the defendant and two others. The bond produced, appears to be executed by the defendant and one other person only. For this variance, the demurrer ought to have been sustained. Count on a bond executed by defendant, and one other person, stating it to be executed by two others, is ill, on oyer and demurrer for the variance. *2 As this will lead us back to such an early stage of the proceedings, we need not notice many of the subsequent points made by pleading, as a repleader must be awarded, if the action progresses, and even the declaration must be amended. Repleader. We will, however, notice one question which was presented and relied on by the defendant, both in pleading and objecting to evidence, and which may be conclusive of the controversy. The condition of the appeal bond, binds the defendant to pay the debts, costs and damages recovered, in case the judgment of the justice should be affirmed, and the averment of the declaration alleges that the judgment was affirmed. This was contested by the defendant, but the point was decided against him. Case before the justice and the circuit court. The judgment rendered by the justice of the peace, was against the administrators, on a security or note given by their intestate. It seems that they appeared before the justice, and attempted to plead fully administered. Their plea was admitted. But the justice not attending to the distinction between judgments rendered against administrators, to be levied of the goods and chattels, which were of the testator or intestate, at the time of his death, and which had come to his hands to be administered; and those to be levied of those goods and chattels, which were of the testator or intestate, and which should thereafter come to the hands of his executors or administrators to be administered, rendered judgment generally that the plaintiff below should recover his demands and indeed it is to be inferred, that the demand wa?? to be levied personally on the administrators, an?? not on the fund which they represented. Judgment to be rendered on a plea of fully administered, admitted. It was to correct this error of the justice, probably, that the appeal was taken; for at no stage o?? the proceedings, did the administrators contest th?? debt. In the circuit court, they pleaded fully administered, and the plea was confessed, and judgment craved of future assets. Appeal lie?? to correct a judgment of justice de bonis propriis, or testatoris, where it ought to be quando acciderint. Here again, other irregularities crept into the record, (which is, throughout, like mistakes of the night) ,judgment was rendered that the appellants, (the administrators), recover of the appellees, (the plaintiff before the magistrate) the debt, interest and costs. We do not however rely on this transposition of names of appellant for appellee, nor are we willing to take these inaccuracies literally, as we conceive there is enough in the record to amend this, and to show a contrary intention. But the judgment is "to be levied of the goods and chattels, which were of the decedent at the time of his death, yet to be administered." Although this judgment partakes of the general inaccuracy of clerks, who too often do not discriminate between the goods and chattels, which had, and those which thereafter should come to the hands of the executors and administrators to be administered, yet we apprehend it must be construed as a judgment to be levied of future assets, and that by other parts of the record, it is amendable so as to read in that way, especially as the plea of fully administered, is fully confessed in the same entry. *3 Forms and amendments of judgments. The judgment, therefore, of the justice was not affirmed as the plaintiff below hath alleged, nor was the appeal bond forfeited. The administrators gained by their appeal, that for which they appealed, a correction of the judgment. On this judgment, no execution could issue until it was ascertained by scire facias, that subsequent assets had come to their hands, and they and their surety did not become liable on the appeal bond. For it would be absurd to say, that administrators or executors should be driven to an appeal because a justice would attach no credit to the plea of plene administravit when true, and that when they had gotten the benefit of their plea in the circuit court, and got the judgment fixed on fuure assets only, they and their sureties should still forfeit their appeal bond and become personally liable. Where the judgment of the justice against an executor, is de bonis propriis and he appeals, and judgment is rendered against him, for the same sum, de bonis testatoris, the condition of the appeal bond is not forfeited. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and final judgment be rendered in the court below, for the defendant there, sustaining the demurrer to the declaration, unless the plaintiff shall obtain leave to amend the declaration, and then such other proceedings may be had as shall not be inconsistent with this opinion. Robertson, for plaintiff; Denny and Rudd, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Bowman v. Green 6 T.B.Mon. 339, 22 Ky. 339, 1827 WL 1694 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
