(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 198,  17 Ky. 198 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1530 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Brown and Hardman v. Anderson. Jun. 14, 1824. *1 Evidence, Presumptions, Consideration, Contracts, Publi?? Policy, Government, Possession, Notice. APPEAL FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE?? JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 232(3) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(C) Bona Fide Purchasers 400k225 Notice 400k232 Possession 400k232(3) k. Notice of Possession. Most Cited  Cases Visible occupancy is strong prima facie evidence of notice to subsequent purchasers, and if its effect can be avoided, it must be by the purchasers' denying it positively, assuming the onus probandi, and showing that the purchase was made under circumstances which precluded notice therefrom. Contracts 95 k 54(1) 95 Contracts 95I Requisites and Validity 95I(D) Consideration 95k54 Sufficiency in General 95k54(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases An agreement by the proprietors of lots in Frankfort to convey to the state one-half their lots, made when the state commissioners were selecting a site for the seat of government, is upon sufficient consideration. Contracts 95 k 131 95 Contracts 95I Requisites and Validity 95I(F) Legality of Object and of Consideration 95k131 k. Influencing Action of Administrative Officer. Most  Cited Cases An agreement, by the proprietors of lots in Frankfort, to convey to the state one-half their lots, made when the state commissioners were selecting a site for the seat of government, when sanctioned by the legislature, cannot be objected to as against public policy. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The complainant below filed his bill claiming a per?? petual injunction against a judgment in ejectment, an?? the conveyance of the legal title of a lot in Frankfor?? Both parties claim under Jeremiah Gullion. The equity set up by the complainant is by dee?? from the directors appointed to build the capitol, whe?? the seat of government was first located in the town?? These directors, pursuant to the provisions of an act o?? assembly, conveyed the lot to the complainant's testa??tor, attempting thereby, to pass the title of the State. It is contended for the appellants, that there is no ev??idence of a sale or transfer from Gullion to the State. The first constitution of the state provided that th?? legislature at their first session, should elect five commissioners, who should locate the capitol; and the?? were also empowered, "to receive grants from individu??als therefor, and to make such conditions with the pro??prietor or proprietors, of the land so pitched on b?? them, as to them should seem right, and should b?? agreed to by the said proprietor or proprietors, and la?? off a town thereon, in such manner as they shoul?? judge most proper." *2 Extract from the first constitution. In August, 1792, before this place was chosen, Gu??lion, with four other proprietors of out-lots, in order t?? induce the commissioners to fix on Frankfort, signe?? and sealed the following writing: "Whereas, we, the under-writers do claim sundry out-lots, adjoining the town of Frankfort, which is now proposed to the commissioners for fixing the seat of government; we, the under-writers, do therefore agree, to lay off our several out-lots into small lots and streets, agreeable to the original plan of said town, and to vest one half thereof in the State of Kentucky, forever, and ??a division to be made by giving the State the first ??choice of a lot, ourselves the second, and so on alter??nately." The writing sealed by Gullion and others, under which the state authorized the sale. (1.) It is insisted, that as the whole title is contested by the answers of the defendants, the proof is insufficient to establish the genuineness of this paper. We think differently. One of the subscribing witnesses, has deposed to his own signature; that he does not think the signature of Gullion is in his hand-writing, nor does he remember to have attested the paper; but that it has always been his invariable rule, never to attest a writing, unless he saw the parties sign or heard them acknowledge it, and he is confident he should not have done so in this instance, if Gullion had not acknowledged it. This testimony would be sufficient to admit the party to be used in a trial at law and, of course, it ought to be taken by the chancellor as sufficiently established. (1) Evidence of a subscribing witness, that though he does not remember attesting the paper, it is done in his hand writing, that the name of the party is not in his, the party's, hand writing, but that it had been the invariable practice of the witness, never to attest a paper unless he saw the party sign or heard him acknowledge it, and that he is confident the case in question is not an exception, is sufficient to admit the paper on a trial at law, or hearing in chancery. This writing connects Gullion with the State, which has conveyed, by her directors, to the complainant's testator, and if it was ever carried into effect and ap??plied to the lot in question, it will prevent the appellants from all the defense they might have, for the want of writing between Gullion and the State. It is evident from the appellant's deed which they have received from Gullion, that this lot now in contest is a part of a larger lot held by Gullion, which was probably divided into smaller lots pursuant to the said agreement, and the proof is explicit that the larger lot was so divided that some of its fractions were sold by the State, and some left to Gullion; and that this very ??lot was so sold by the State, and that the present claim ??is derived from that sale. It is insisted that the larger ??lot is not identified. We answer, that the appellant's deed is sufficient for that purpose. It is also insisted, that it does not appear that the half was left for Gullion. To this we answer, that the contrary does not appear, and if the State got as much or more than it ought to have had, exclusive of this lot, it lay upon the appellants to show that fact; and as the proof is satisfactory that the State sold this, we cannot presume it to be done improperly. We, therefore, deem the proof complete that the complainant holds the equity in the lot, set up in?? the bill. *3 The lot in question having been sold by the directors, is presumptive evidence that it fell to the state, under the writing sealed by Gullion. (2.) It is objected against the relief sought, that there is not a sufficient consideration proved in this contract, to authorize the chancellor to enforce the contract between the State and Gullion. To this we reply, that the offer was no doubt, made by Gullion to induce the commissioners to fix on this town, on the full belief that it would render the half which he retained, of more value than the whole was before, if the seat of government should be placed here, and that such was the effect, there is no reasonable room to doubt; and as the State has rendered that benefit, we cannot say that there is no consideration. (2) The agreement of the proprietors of lots in Frankfort, to convey the state one half of their lots, made when the commissioners were selecting the sit?? for the seat of government, was on sufficient consideration to be enforced in equity, (3.) It has also been contended that the contract between the State and Gullion, was one against sound policy, because it was calculated by pecuniary induce??ments, to cause the agents of the State to swerve from their duty, and to prefer an improper place to one more proper, by a larger reward, and that if the State shall set up its own seat of government, or its county seats, to be bid for and purchased, as this was, the chancellor ought not to lend his aid to enforce such contracts. That the chancellor will not enforce a contract against sound policy, there is no doubt, and we cannot say that the practice objected to is founded on wise policy, and that it may not lead to corruption and abuse; and if this was the case of a contract between two individuals, we might hesitate before we would lend our aid; but here a high contracting party is concerned, capable first of?? setling what policy is sound or unsound, and then of contracting according to the rule. The people, in convention assembled, decided the policy was sound, and then provided for contracts under it. The Legislature, at the succeeding session, accepted this contract, in accordance with the then existing constitution, and provided for carrying it into effect, by appointing directors of the new capitol, and authorizing them to sell the land granted, which was done, and this is one of the sales. This decision on both the consideration of this contract, as well as on its policy, is of so high a nature as to conclude all the functionaries of the government, from questioning it as a question of meum and tuum. To the people in convention was confided the principles of policy, and their decision on this very case, must preclude further inquiry. (3) That the agreement by the proprietors of Frankfort, to convey the state part of their lots, to induce the commissioners to select it for the seat of government, was made under authority of the convention and afterwards sanctioned by the legislature, precludes an inquiry into the question of its being against public policy. *4 (4.) It is finally insisted, that the appellants hold the legal estate, and are innocent purchasers for a valuable consideration, without notice, and, therefore, their title can not be affected. It is true, there is an attempt in the answers, to deny notice; but it is a faint one. Before the purchase of the appellants, the complainant's testator had agreed to sell the lot to an individual, who had entered thereon, and was erecting or had erected a factory and other valuable improvements, and the appellants lived in the same town. They admit they knew of these buildings at the time of their purchase, and attempt to avoid the effect of the notice conveyed by these improvements, by saying, that they did not know that the lot included these improvements, as they were unacquainted with its boundary, and afterwards discovered that these improvements were embraced. (4) Visible occupancy is strong prima facie evidence of notice to a subsequent purchaser, and if not conclusive, the party to avoid it must deny it positively, and assume the onus probandi, and show that his purchase was made so as to preclude him from knowing it. If they bought not knowing what spot, it proves that they were very careless, and intended to run the risk of its including the improvements of others, and that they did not act with as much reasonable caution as they were bound to do. Visible occupancy has always been held sufficient to convey notice, and it is reasonable that it should. We need not here determine, that it is conclusive evidence of notice; for, at least, it must be strong prima facie evidence, and if its effect can ever be avoided, it must be by the purchaser denying it positively, and assuming the onus probandi, and showing that the purchase was made under circumstances which precluded notice therefrom. That he did not know the bounds of his purchase, and, therefore, was not apprized that it embraced the ground occupied, will not do. Upon the whole case, therefore, we are of opinion that the court below did not err in decreeing a perpetual injunction and a conveyance of the title, and that the decree must be affirmed with costs. Talbot and Bibb, for plaintiffs; Crittenden, Haggin and Huston, for defendant. The counsel for the appellants moved the court for a re-hearing of the cause, on the question of the sufficiency of the proof of the writing exhibited as the act of Gullion, and the identity of the lot in contest, with those embraced in that instrument, and showed the grounds of their motion in the following: PETITION FOR A RE-HEARING, BY G. M. BIBB, ESQ. The counsel for the said Hardman and Brown, move a re-hearing, upon these considerations: That said Brown is the holder of the legal title, and had recovered in ejectment; that they derived their legal title under and through Gullion, in whom the legal title was, otherwise they could not have recovered in ejectment. That said complainant does not show any writing or contract with the said Gullion, for the said lots; nor has the complainant, or any one under whom he pretends claim, any instrument of writing connecting his or their claim with the said Gullion, under and from whom they pretend to derive their equity; but that their said equity is founded solely on the second deposition of Fowler, contradictory to his first deposition. *5 Let it not be forgotten, that the name of Gullion to the paper exhibited by the complainant, is expressly proved not be Gullion's hand-writing; but if that is Gullion's writing, then one-half of the lots only can be claimed by that writing, and according to Fowler's first deposition, those lots purchased by him and sold by the directors of the public buildings, were the lots in his, Fowler's bond to Wallace; and to get the other lots of Gullion, he, Fowler, proves a parol purchase, made by Weisiger for him, and by his second deposition, the claim is shifted, and the lots now in controversy, are claimed as the purchase from the directors of the public buildings. Thus, by the decree, Gullion is made to lose half of his lots, by a paper he never signed, and the other half, upon the conflicting depositions of Fowler, as to a parol purchase for him by Captain Weisiger, whose deposition is also taken, but says not a word of such a purchase of Gullion for Fowler. As to the deed from the commissioners or directors of the public buildings, shown by the complainant, it is no evidence of any sale by Gullion. The directors or commissioners, or complainant, show no connection with Gullion; for, as before remarked, the paper produced by the complainant, as Gullion's, is proved not to be his hand-writing, and no authority given to any other to sign for him, nor any acknowledment or delivery by Gullion, is proved. So that a clear legal title in the defendants is decreed away by a very doubtful equity (to make the best of it), resting in parol proof, in the very teeth of the statute against frauds and perjuries. The title to these lots never was vested in the trustees of the town of Frankfort. These lots are outside of the 100 acres first laid off; they are in an addition made by private persons, and by their own private act, and conveyed to Gullion before any act of assembly or legal recognition of this addition, as part of the town of Frankfort. If the title had been vested in trustees, then Gullion could not have conveyed the legal title to Brown, unless Gullion had the deed of the trustees, and Brown could not have recovered in ejectment, without showing the legal title in himself. So that in every way in which this case can be viewed, it seems to the counsel, that the legal title had been decreed away upon mere parol proof. The testimony of Weisiger, is silent as to any contract made by him for Fowler, with Gullion; the testimony of Weisiger and of all others, is not sufficient to show any division of the lots, nor any cause for specific execution of the paper exhibited as Gullion's, were it proved to be Gullion's act. A re-hearing is solicited. BIBB, for petitioners. DECEMBER 16, But the court, after consideration of the petition until the present term, overruled the motion, and the opinion stands confirmed. Ky.App. 1824. Brown v. Anderson 1 T.B.Mon. 198, 17 Ky. 198, 1824 WL 1530 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
