(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 409,  20 Ky. 409 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1444 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kennedy's Heirs and Hynes v. Meredith. Apr. 17, 1827. *1 Error. Introductory Decrees. Mandates. Appeals. Practice. Parties. Guardian ad litem. Agents. APPEAL FROM THE NELSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 870(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(B) Interlocutory, Collateral, and Supplementary Proceedings and Questions 30k869 On Appeal from Final Judgment 30k870 Interlocutory Proceedings Brought Up in  General 30k870(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases An appeal prayed by the defendants does not bring before the appellate court the decision of the trial court on motion of one not a necessary party to the suit, who applied to be admitted as a defendant, and was refused. Appeal and Error 30 k 1203(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVII Determination and Disposition of Cause 30XVII(F) Mandate and Proceedings in Lower Court 30k1203 Proceedings After Remand 30k1203(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a decree is reversed, and the cause sent back, with directions to the court below to enter a certain decree, new parties cannot be admitted by the inferior court, to make the same defense, or the same parties permitted to introduce an old defense existing before the first decree, but omitted in the first instance. Appearance 31 k 12 31 Appearance 31k11 Operation and Effect in General 31k12 k. Relation of Party to Cause in General. Most Cited Cases Appearing in a cause as guardian ad litem and agent, and being named as representative of a decedent in an order of revivor, to which there was no appearance, does not make the person a legal party personally. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] This is the third time this cause has appeared in this court. The first decision is reported,  3 Bibb 465, and the second, Litt. Sel. Ca. 516. By reference to these the controversy will be understood. References to the former decisions of the cause by this court. On the return of the last opinion of this court, and after an interlocutory decree was made in pursuance thereof, one of the heirs of Kennedy, the patentee of the defendant's title, presented his petition, and moved for leave to file his answer, and set up another defense in the cause, relying on the ground that he had not before been made a party, or if he was, it was attempted to be done by publication irregularly made. One of the heirs of the patentee after the return of the cause from this court the second time, moves to file his answer and make new defence, alleging he had not been before in court. Abner Hynes, the devisee of Andrew Hynes, who claimed the land by bond from Kennedy, the patentee, made a similar application. *2 Abner Hynes makes the same motion. Both these applications were overruled, and we conceive correctly. Motions overruled--and correctly. For it will be seen by an inspection of the record, that the points relied on to warrant the application, were made on the trial of the case before it was last brought to this court, and overruled, on the ground that the record showed that each of these defendants had appeared before, and were well known as proper parties, and these decisions were excepted to. Errors can not be assigned in decisions of the circuit court, given prior to the previous revision of the cause here, though that was on the appeal of the other party--Expedit reipublicae ul sit finis litium. On the reversal of the cause on the appeal of Meredith the same questions directly presented themselves in his road in this court, as reasons why he should not have a decision on the merits. And although each of these points was not discussed and settled expressly in that opinion, yet each must be considered as conclusively settled, as if they had been made the subject of express adjudication, in obedience to the well known maxim, expedit reipublicae ut sit finis litium and in conformity to previous adjudications of this court. Besides the record has many entries therein, which clearly fortify the conclusion of the court below that these persons were well known parties by actual appearance, and orders of consent, in the suit, long before, and during its progress. Although this refusal to admit the answers of Kennedy and Hynes, has been stirred in argument, yet the learned counsel, who assigned the errors, and who does not now appear in the cause, seemed to be sensible of this, and he has not assigned for error, the decision of the court below in rejecting these answers and the new defense offered, but complains exclusively that the court below at the same stage of the cause, erred in refusing to sustain the petition of Burr Harrison, who applied, stating that he never was made a party, that he had bought the land in contest of Abner Hynes, and held an equity under him, and that he was entitled to be a party, and prayed that the complainant should be compelled to amend his bill, and make him a defendant, and admit his answer and defense; and this is the proper question for our consideration. The question here arises--can the heirs of Kennedy assign this treatment of Harrison, as error to their prejudice? We conceive not. If he was a necessary party, they might have required him to come in, long before the cause came to this court the last time. Besides we do not perceive that anything in the petition of Harrison exhibits a defense, which they could not make without him, or that his presence as a defendant, was at all necessary for their protection; he claims title under them, and derived from them or some of them, long after their defense to the suit was exhibited. One to whose defence the bringing in an omitted party was not necessary, can not assign for error the refusal of the circuit court to admit him, after the cause had been twice here. *3 But it has been insisted in argument, that all necessary parties ought to be made at any stage of a cause, when their interest is perceived; that this decree at the time of Harrison's aplication was only interlocutory, and, therefore, was in the power of the chancellor; and although it was made in conformity to the mandate of this court, it did not essentially differ in this respect from other interlocutory decrees, and, therefore, new parties might be made. The circuit court has not power after an interlocutory decree made or directed by the mandate of this court to admit new parties to make the same defence, or to allow the same parties to introduce another defence existing before the first decree. This position conflicts so directly with the former adjudications of this court, and with the reason and nature of the case, that it is not entitled to a serious refutation. Upon reversing a decree in this court, such decree must be given, or be directed to be given, as the court below ought to have rendered in the first instance. The directions thus given by this court, are not in the power of this court to revoke, after the term of this court has ended. Far less are they in the power of the inferior court, which has not the option to obey or disobey. It is then absurd to say that the court can go to work by new parties, resting on the same defense, or an old defense existing before the first decree, but barely omitted in the first instance, to defeat that mandate. But we observe that the errors assigned are in the name of Harrison, and are directed to us, as his complaint for the injury he has suffered by the decree. An appeal by the defendants, does not bring before this court the decision of the circuit court overruling the motion of one not before a party to be admitted to defend, whose presence in the cause was not necessary to the rights of the others. The appeal is prayed by the defendants only, and not by Harrison, unless he be a defendant, existing in the cause, before it was in this court. To his complaint, if he was a previous defendant, this prominent answer appears; it is strange that he should complain, that the court below had refused to give him the attitude which he actually held already, and yet at the same time sought to obtain, and it would be as hard for him to excuse himself for delaying to set up his defense till this late hour, as it is for the other defendants, who now rush to the combat, as if it was entirely new. On the contrary, if he was not previously a defendant, he has not appealed, and is not before this court. He appeared, applied to be let in, and was refused, and from this order of refusal, he has not appealed, nor has he thereto prosecuted a writ of error. This upon an examination of the record, appears to be the fact. We do not deem him a legal defendant. It is true his name often appears on the record. He there appears as agent, as guardian ad litem, and as manager of the controversy. At an early stage thereof, he was named as a defendant together with his wife, one of the heirs of Hynes, in an order of revivor; on this order, however, no proceedings seem to have been had, to compel him to come in; but the complainant below, appears to have abandoned the idea of reviving and prosecuting his suit against all the heirs of Hynes, and to have selected Abner alone, as the devisee of the entire interest of his father, for whom Harrison then defended as guardian ad litem. Under such circumstances, even if it appeared clearly that Harrison had been the virtual and substantial defendant, protecting his real ownership in the names of others, as has been contended, we do not think it correct to adjudicate upon his rights or to conclude them, further than our decisions between the legal parties, may have a bearing upon his interest, until he shall bring the order made, overruling his petition before us. *4 Appearing in the cause as guardian ad litem and agent, and being named as representative of a decedent in an order for revivor to which there was no appearance, does not make the person a legal party. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Crittenden and Hardin, for appellant; Wickliffe, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Kennedy's Heirs v. Meredith 4 T.B.Mon. 409, 20 Ky. 409, 1827 WL 1444 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
