(Cite as: 5 Litt. 8,  15 Ky. 8 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1352 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Yancey v. Downer. Apr. 7, 1824. *1 FROM THE TODD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 403 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k403 k. Nature and Scope of Remedy in General. Most Cited  Cases The chancellor has no power to set aside and alter the records of a court of law, but may, where good cause is shown, decree that, unless the defendant in chancery will consent to a new trial, he shall be perpetually restrained from executing his judgment. Judgment 228 k 407(3) 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k407 Existence of or Resort to Other  Remedy 228k407(3) k. New Trial. Most Cited  Cases Where a party prayed an appeal from a judgment at law, when the proper course was to move for a new trial, equity will not sustain his bill for relief, and order a new trial. Judgment 228 k 436 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k431 Excuses for Failure to Interpose Defenses 228k436 k. Negligence of Party. Most Cited  Cases Where a party supposed, from the state of the docket, that his case could not be reached in a certain time, and, acting on such supposition, missed the hour of trial, equity will not grant him relief. New Trial 275 k 47 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(D) Disqualification or Misconduct of or Affecting Jury 275k47 k. Communications by or with Jurors. Most Cited  Cases Where a juror, on the jury retiring to deliberate, made a communication to plaintiff's son, who was guilty of no impropriety in the matter, the verdict was not thereby vitiated. CRITTENDEN for plaintiff; SHARP for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Yancey, in an action of trespass for breaking his close and house, and beating and wounding his slave, so that she was confined and useless for many months, recovered against Downer a verdict and judgment for five hundred and fifty dollars, from which Downer appealed and entered into an appeal bond, but never prosecuted the appeal, and afterwards filed this bill with injunction, praying the chancellor to grant him a new trial. The chancellor decreed a new trial, and to reverse that decree, Yancey has prosecuted this writ of error. A court of chancery can not set aside a judgment at law. The grounds of equity set up by Downer, are, that at the time of the trial he was necessarily absent in Virginia on indispensable business, from whence he expected to return before trial, but was unavoidably detained; that as a measure of precaution, he employed an agent to attend to the suit, who caused all the proper witnesses to be subpoenaed, and he and the witnesses attended on the day on which the cause was set for trial, and also the next day, and as there were several important causes still before his, the conclusion of his counsel, agent and witnesses, was, that the cause would not be tried the fourth, but that these causes were unexpect edly continued, and his cause was tried on the third day; and that owing to sickness, his agent did not get to court until after the cause was argued, and none of his witnesses were sworn and heard, and none of them appeared until after the jury retired, when one of his most important witnesses came in; that his agent spoke to his counsel about a new trial, and the counsel advised an appeal, as the most sure method of redress, and not a new trial, and the appeal was prayed; that if he had a fair trial, he could show that he had not injured the slave of Yancey to the value of one dollar, as he had only moderately chastised her, and the injury which she received, was by a fall, which happened by her running out of the kitchen, in a passion. *2 When a party to a suit calculates that it can not be tried during a particular day, from the number and importance of the causes standing before it, and under such impression leaves the court with his witnesses, he must abide by the consequences of his calculation, and can not be relieved in law or equity. A man's counsel and agent improvidently praying an appeal in a case where a new trial was the appropriate remedy, can not justify a court of chancery in sustaining a bill and decreeing a new trial. In an amended bill he states, that the son and agent of Yancey, who conducted the cause for him, had considerable conversation with the jurors or some of them, after their retirement, and before they agreed on their verdict, of which neither he nor his agent was apprised, until long since the transaction took place. Yancey, in his answer, denies any unfairness on his part, and alleges, when the cause was reached, the counsel of Downer urged trial, and his own counsel proposed a continuance, or to lay it over until the witnesses appeared, as none of them were present, and thus Downer's counsel hoped to compel a nonsuit; that against the wishes of his counsel, a jury was empanelled, and some of his witnesses then appeared, and the cause progressed without some of his witnesses, and the most important witness he had. He denies the possibility of mitigating the damages, and any knowledge of communications to the jury from his son, and pleads and relies on the proceedings at law, and the failure to apply for a new trial to a court of law, as a bar to relief. It is but rarely, and under peculiar circumstances, that a court of chancery can entertain any jurisdiction in actions of tort. Improprieties of jurors may subject them to punishment, without vitiating the verdict. We could not sustain the decree of the court below, if the merits of the cause were in its favor. It directly sets aside the judgment at law, and awards a new trial totidem verbis. We cannot concede to the chancellor the power of setting aside and altering the records of a court of law. If the powers of a chancellor were separated from the person of the judge of a court of law, which is done elsewhere and may be done here, we cannot tell how the chancellor would enforce such a decree--whether he would retry the cause himself, or compel the court of common law to do it. Hence this court has decided that the chancellor must, in such case, act on the person only, and not on the proceedings at common law; or, in other words, he ought to decree that unless the defendant in chancery consent in the common law court to a new trial, in a reasonable time, his hands shall be tied, and he be perpetually restrained from executing his judgment. But we do not rest on this point only in reversing this decree; for, on the merits, it cannot be sustained. Indeed if the fact of improper communication with the jury be excepted, the face of the complainant's bill cannot authorize the interposition of the chancellor. The trial of torts belongs not to the chancellor, and he but seldom ought to interfere with the proceedings at law in such cases. Where by fraud or any artful contrivance of one party, or by unavoidable accident, a valid defense is kept out of sight, the chancellor may interpose, but it is not sufficient for the party applying to a court of equity for a new trial, to exhibit good grounds; he must also show, that it was out of his power, owing to some substantial cause, to make the application to the court of law in due time. Besides, it ought clearly to appear, that injustice had been done. Here the party has not shown it probable, that a different result would be produced on a second trial, even if the testimony of the witness, who alone appears to have been with him when he committed the trespass, and on whom he chiefly relies, be taken as conclusive. It does appear that both his agent and counsel, had it in their power to apply for a new trial, and conversed upon it; that they were possessed of every fact in the bill, the communication with the jury excepted, then as well as now; and that they declined it, and took another course. By their decision he must be bound so far as the rights of his adversary are concerned. As to his absence, he could and did act by agent; and as to the conclusion that the case would not be tried, as this was not induced by his adversary, the result of it must fall upon him; for it would be going far, to say, that the organs of the law should be bound to retry every case where parties had made calculations from the state of the docket, that the cause could not be reached in a certain time, and resting on that calculation, have missed the hour of trial. Those who rest on such calculations, must generally do it at their peril, and courts of law will scarcely ever relieve them, much less the chancellor. *3 As to the improper communications from the son and agent of the plaintiff in error, the proof amounts simply to this: At the place of trial there was no court-house, and the jury deliberated out of doors, and not having agreed until evening, they retired to a room prepared for them. One of the jurors on passing the son of the plaintiff on the street, told him that his father's nearest neighbors on the jury, were the hardest against him, or were for the lowest damages, to which the son made no reply. Another juror coming shortly afterwards, spoke to the son in nearly the same words with the first, to which the son replied, that the first juror, (naming him,) had told him all about it, or that he had heard as much from the first juror, and here the conversation ended. It cannot be pretended, that this ought to vitiate the verdict. The impropriety was all on the part of the jurors, and however imprudently they may have acted in such communications, or subjected themselves to punishment, there is no pretext for attributing any impropriety to the son of the plaintiff. He made no other reply than to intimate to the second juror, when troubled with such repeated addresses, that he wished to hear no more. Improprieties in jurors, will frequently subject them to punishment and not affect their verdict. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions there to dissolve the injunction with damages, and dismiss the bill with costs. Ky.App. 1824. Yancey v. Downer 5 Litt. 8, 15 Ky. 8, 1824 WL 1352 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 35 END OF DOCUMENT
