(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 7,  17 Ky. 7 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1462 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bank of Kentucky v. Lacy and Cox. Oct. 5, 1824. *1 Clerical Mistake, Amendment, Executions. ERROR TO THE NELSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 97 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k97 k. Amendment. Most Cited Cases An error in the name of a plaintiff in an execution may be amended, after a delivery bond taken in the proper name, and execution issued on it, when it is a clerical mistake, and there is enough in the record to point out the correction. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. A judgment was obtained by the plaintiffs in error, on which a fieri facias issued, and on its return, a venditioni exponas, which was returned with a delivery bond forfeited. On this bond a fieri facias issued. The venditioni, bond, and subsequent execution, were all quashed, on motion of the defendants in error, because the plaintiffs were misnamed in the venditioni. In every other part of the record, as well as the delivery bond, the plaintiffs are rightly named, the "president, directors and company of the Bank of Kentucky." In the venditioni, they are styled the "president, directors and company of the Centre Bank of Kentucky." A motion was made and overruled, before the motion to quash was decided, to strike the word "Centre" out of the venditioni. An error in the name of a plaintiff in an execution issued on it, where it is evidently a clerical mistake, and there is enough in the record to point out the correction. That there is another corporation of the erroneous name in an execution by which a bond has been taken in the proper name, is not ground for quashing the writ; but if it appears that there is a record in court to which the writ applies, then the writ should be transferred to it, and the bond might fall the want of it. The insertion of the word is so evidently a clerical mistake, that the amendment ought to have prevailed, and the proceedings have been sustained. Writs and judgments are amendable, where there is any thing to amend by, and here there is enough to point out the correct name, in all other parts of the record. We do not conceive that there being such a corporation as the Centre Bank, can make any difference. If there was such corporation, it was incumbent on the mover to show that that corporation had a record which suited the writ; and if that was shown, the writ ought not to have been quashed, but left as an appendage to that record, and this record would have remained without any writ to have justified the delivery bond, in which case it might have fallen. But as the writ evidently belongs to this record, and no where else, it could and ought to have been corrected by it. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and a mandate be given to the court below, to overrule the motion with costs. Bibb, for plaintiffs; Crittenden, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Bank of Kentucky v. Lacy 1 T.B.Mon. 7, 17 Ky. 7, 1824 WL 1462 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
