(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 580,  10 Ky. 580 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1179 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Morgan et al. v. Mullins et al. May 30, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE PENDLETON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases Calls may be rejected in entries as mistaken, when their position is shown; but a party cannot exhibit what calls he pleases, and omit others, which might affect the figure of his survey if shown, and yet sustain his entry. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The appellants who were complainants in the court below filed their bill to obtain relief against sundry adverse patents claiming under the following entry: "January 2, 1784--John Bradford, assignee, and Charles Morgan, assignee, as tenants in common, enters 4,541 acres of land on part of a treasury warrant, No. 20,332, beginning at the most southward corner of John Marshall's entry of 10,000 acres, between the Ohio and north side of Licking creek, and running S. 60 E. 1,200 poles, thence from each end of said line S. 30 W. so far that a line parallel to the first will include the quantity." John Marshall's entry of 10,000 acres was made the same day, and its calls are: "Beginning at Edward Payne's and Charles Morgan's westward corner of their entry of 3,000 acres in Armstead Churchill's line, and running with him and extending the same S. 30 W. 1,600 poles, and also from the beginning with said Payne's and Morgan's S. 30 E. to their next corner; thence with another of their lines N. 30 E. to William Said's corner in said line, thence with Said's line S. 60 E. so far that a line parallel to the first line, together with a line at right angles from the end of the first line, will include the quantity." Edward Payne's and Charles Morgan's entry, named in the last was made January 1, 1784,, and contains the following calls: "Beginning at Henry Payne's and Charles Morgan's, assee, southwardly corner of their entry of 5,000 acres on the Ohio, and running with their line to their corner in Armstead Churchill's line; thence with Churchill's line so far that a line at right angles will include the quantity." Henry Payne and Charles Morgan, on the same day with the last, had made their entry calling: "To begin at William Kennedy's eastwardly corner of his 400 acre entry on the Ohio, and running with his line to his southward corner, which is beginning corner to Armstead Churchill's 24,000 acre entry, and running thence with said Churchill's line S. 30 W. 1,000 poles; and from the beginning up the river, so far that a line parallel to the first and also another at right angles thereto, shall include the quantity." On the 16th May, 1780, William Kennedy had made his entry of 400 acres, thus describing the land: "Beginning at Charles Curd's lower corner on the bank of the Ohio, thence with the meanders of the river and binding on the same 200 poles; thence extending out from the river 800 poles, including a spring at the bottom of a hill and back for quantity." *2 On the same day with this last entry Charles Curd had made his entry calling: "To lie on the south side of Ohio near the lower end of the second large bottom above the mouth of the little Miami, beginning at a hoop ash and sugar tree on the bank of the said river, on the upper side of a small run; thence upwards with the courses of the Ohio, and binding thereon, 400 poles to two buckeyes and a beech on the bank of the river, thence S. 50 W. and back from the before mentioned corners for quantity." The other entries alluded to in this chain lead to the same point, and can have no important bearing except to fix the true position of those which call for them. The following is given as a sketch of their calls: Armstead Churchill's is dated December 29, 1782, for 24,000 acres, and calls as follows, to-wit: "Beginning at the most southwardly corner of an entry made in the name of William Kennedy, for 400 acres, lying on the Ohio river near the lower end of the second large bottom above the mouth of the little Miami; thence from the above mentioned corner of said entry S. 30 W. 2,000 poles; thence from each end of this line at right angles westwardly, so far that a straight line drawn parallel to the line of 2,000 poles shall include the quantity." Will. Said's entry called for in the following chain, is dated January 1, 1784, for 2,458 acres, and describes its position thus: "Beginning at Thomas Lewis and Charles Morgan's southward corner of their entry of 4,661 acres on the Ohio and running with their line N. 60 W. to their corner in Henry Payne's and Charles Morgan's line; thence with their line to and along Edward Payne's and Charles Morgan's line, being S. 30 W. so far that lines at right angles may include the quantity." Thomas Lewis and Charles Morgan depend on the same chain, and is dated on the same day with the entry last recited, including the quantity as described above, and is located as follows: "Beginning at Henry Payne's and Charles Morgan's upper corner of their entry of 5,000 acres on the Ohio; and running with said line S 30 W. 1,200 poles; thence S. 60 E. so far that a line of N. 30 E. to the Ohio and thence down the same to the beginning will include the quantity." It is evident from the foregoing detail that all this chain of entries depends essentially on William Kennedy's 400 acre entry, and that before any enquiry into their validity in other respects, it will be necessary to ascertain whether Kennedy's claim can be supported. It, in its turn, rests upon Charles Curd's 800 acres. Without the call for Curd it cannot be supported: The Ohio is an object notorious in the history of the country ever since its first discovery. It is not necessary to determine whether the little Miami is entitled to be considered as a good call on the grade of historical evidence, for it is proved in this cause to have been notoriously known by this name previous to and at the date of the eldest of the afore recited entries. The place claimed in this suit for the location of Curd and Kennedy is in the second bottom south of Ohio, above the mouth of the little Miami, on the opposite shore. This bottom is proved to be six or seven miles in length, and the beginning of Curd is claimedabout one mile above the lower end of this bottom. precisely at the lower end of the bottom, or where the hill approaches the river, there is a small run discharging itself into the river. Above this run, at the distance of fifty-eight poles is a second small run, at which place the bottom is ten poles wide. At the distance of forty-eight poles further is a third small run. The bottom there is twelve poles wide. Still progressing up the river is a fourth branch, where the bottom is a little wider than at the third; and above this last named run, about one hundred and twenty poles, is a small run claimed as the beginning corner of Curd. Above the branch claimed as Curd's beginning is a hoop ash and sugar tree, claimed by the appellants as their beginning. Just above the mouth of the next lowest branch, being the fourth in the above series, stands also a hoop ash and sugar tree. Also at, or within a few yards above the mouth of the next lowest branch, being the third as before counted, is a standing sugar tree and remains of a fallen hoop ash. At the branch still further down, being that one nearest the termination of the bottom, and the second one as before numbered, no such trees are found immediately above the mouth of the run, but they are found within fifty or sixty yards above it and hoop ashes and sugar trees are shown to be numerous in the bottom below the beginning claimed. It is remarkable that the entry of Curd is particular in describing the trees "on the bank of Ohio;" but how near they are to the mouth of the run we are not told: The locator has contended himself with saying they are "above," without saying how far. No aid then can be derived from the trees called for in searching for this entry. They are not described as marked or in any manner distinguished from other trees of the same kind. If this call is essential to this entry, it is evidently too uncertain to sustain the claim. If, on the contrary, this call is held to be immaterial, and not such an one as will vitiate it, as was held by this court in a case somewhat similar, of  Greenup vs. Lyne's heirs, 2 Bibb, 369, (which is the mose favorable construction that can be given to it) it seems to result that Curd's beginning cannot remain at the branch where he is surveyed. His calls, without the trees, fixes him near the lower end of the bottom. This literally means not at the lower end, but so near it that there were no intervening objects of description. *3 The Ohio is notorious from its connection with the history of this country. An entry calling to begin at the mouth of a run near the lower end of a given bottom, must begin at the mouth of the run nearest to the lower end of the bottom. If he intended to go beyond the first run, which appeared after the bottom had commenced, he would more probably have called for the first, second or third, from the lower end of the bottom. Each enquirer, it is conceived, passing up the bottom, would have stopped at the first run, which was near the end of it, and readily have concluded that was the place intended. According to this construction then Curd ought to commence on the margin of the river, at the mouth of the run before denominated the second, at the distance of two hundred and sixty-two poles from where he is surveyed. If Kennedy is placed at his beginning, he will then include none of the land which he now includes. But if Kennedy is fixed to Curd at the lowest branch as we have supposed there are other calls in Kennedy's entry which cannot be rejected. It must include a "spring at the bottom of a hill." If the article "the" had been used, it might be supposed that the river hill was intended. But any hill equally answers the description of the entry, which might be found within the distance of eight hundred poles. A spring is shown at the hill ascending from the river just below the branch claimed by the appellants, and two others are shown situated nearly in a similar position as to two other branches. No aid then can be derived from the springs shown in favor of the entry, and it is not shown what spring or whether any can be included by surveying at the lowest branch. The spring as described in this entry, was intended as an object not to be omitted, and its position might vary the course which Kennedy ought to run from the river. Calls have been rejected in entries as mistaken when their true position was shown; but it is now settled by numerous decisions that a party cannot exhibit what calls he pleases, and omit others which might affect the figure of his survey if shown, and yet sustain his entry. Calls may be rejected as mistaken, but the position of the objects must be shewn. It is not competent for a party to shew what objects he pleases, and omit others. We therefore conceive that the circuit court did right in dismissing the bill, and the decision must be affirmed, but without costs, as the appellees have made default in this court. Ky.App. 1821. Morgan v. Mullins 3 A.K.Marsh. 580, 10 Ky. 580, 1821 WL 1179 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
