(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 162,  10 Ky. 162 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1181 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Michael Jones v. George T. Wood. Dec. 12, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE BARREN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 38 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(B) Form and Contents of Promissory Notes and Duebills 56k38 k. Designation of Place for Payment. Most Cited  Cases Under the provision in the charter of the Bank of Kentucky that a note, when discounted at the bank, shall be considered a bill of exchange, a note merely payable, but not discounted, at the bank, cannot be so considered. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an action of debt. The plaintiff declared that a certain John Philips made his promissory note, negotiable and payable at the Glasgow branch bank to the defendant, who endorsed or assigned it payable to the order of said John Philips; and that said John Philips then endorsed or ordered its contents to be paid to the plaintiff, whereby the plaintiff alleges action accrued to him, and therefore he sues. This statement shews that the plaintiff, endorsee or assignee, has sued the defendant, a remote assignor and payee of the note. The court rendered judgment in favor of the plaintiff for his debt and interest, as upon a specialty, without the intervention of a jury; and the errors assigned in this court, not only question the sufficiency of the declaration and propriety of the judgment, but also the plaintiff's right to recover at all. The idea, that the note declared on, was placed on the footing of a foreign bill of exchange, and raised to the grade of mercantile paper, must have dictated this action. This idea is, however, based on a total mistake. The charter of the bank declares, that such notes, "when discounted," shall be placed on the footing of foreign bills of exchange. Of course, those, and those only, which are discounted, can claim that grade; and those not discounted, altho' they are made payable and negotiable at the bank, remain on the footing of other bonds or notes made assignable by act of assembly; and the question is too well settled, by repeated decisions, that such are not subject to the law merchant. If this note had been discounted by the bank, and then passed by the bank to the plaintiff, or taken up by him as an endorser, on its being dishonored, it was necessary for the plaintiff, as the bank is not concerned in this suit, to have averred the fact that the note had been discounted; and also to shew the proper application for payment, and protest of the note, which he has not done; and his declaration, on that ground, is wholly defective. If, however, this note never was discounted, the plaintiff's declaration is not only defective in not shewing that he had prosecuted the maker to insolvency by due diligence, or in not offering some reasonable excuse for not doing so; but a state of case is presented, wherein the plaintiff below is attempting to recover against a remote assignor, which can not be done at all, as was decided by this court in the case of Drake v. Johnson, Har. 218. *2 Note made payable at bank is not thereby exalted to the grade of a bill of exchange; to give it that dignity, it must have been discounted at bank; until discounted, such note occupies the ordinary situation of a common promissory note. A remote assignor of an ordinary note is not liable to the action of the holder. The judgment of the court below is therefore erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded to that court, with directions, that unless the plaintiff in that court shall so amend his declaration as to shew that the paper has been raised to the footing of a foreign bill of exchange, and then, by proper averments, shew his right to recover thereon, his suit be there dismissed with costs. Crittenden for plaintiff, Bibb for defendant. IN ERROR. Same v. Same. This case is precisely similar in all respects to the case between the same parties just decided. For the reasons given in that opinion, it must also be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with the same directions, as are given in that case. Ky.App. 1820. Jones v. Wood 3 A.K.Marsh. 162, 10 Ky. 162, 1820 WL 1181 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
