(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 20,  19 Ky. 20 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1180 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Watkins v. Logan, Davis & Finley. Nov. 11, 1825. *1 Equity Jurisdiction. Executions. Trustees. ERROR TO THE LINCOLN CIRCUIT; JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 171(3) 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k169 Injunction 161k171 Grounds 161k171(3) k. Attack on Judgment or Execution. Most  Cited Cases A sale of complainant's property under an execution against a third person will not be enjoined. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement. This is a bill in chancery, with an injunction enjoining the sale of property seized by execution, the complainants claiming a complete legal title thereto, and insisting that the execution, which is against a third person, can not operate on the estate. The court below perpetuated the injunction; to reverse which decree this writ of error is prosecuted. Decree of the circuit court. By a train of decisions, this court has settled the question of the jurisdiction of the chancellor, over such cases; and it is established as a general rule, that where the remedy at law is complete, law must be resorted to; and, for this reason, the chancellor ought not to interfere. If exceptions exist to this principle, they must be based upon some strong impediments to the remedy at law. The bare suggestions or allegations that the chattels or slaves seized and sold, may be dispersed in different hands, whereby numerous suits may be produced, or that the articles sold may be removed or carried off, are not sufficient to give jurisdiction to the chancellor. These suggestions are here relied on, and can not, therefore, prevail. Equity has not jurisdiction to enjoin the sale of slaves or other chattels, seized by fieri facias, on the application of a third person claiming the property. But it is insisted, that the complainants in this case are trustees, holding the legal estate, for the use and benefit of the wife and children of the defendant in the execution, and that their character as trustees forms an exception to the general rule. It is hard to sustain the exception by the character or office of the party. Trustees, as to all strangers, are armed with legal powers, rights and remedies, equally with other plaintiffs, and therefore they, as well as others, ought to be compelled to use those remedies. It would be extending to them exclusive privileges, to permit them to have an unconditional election of courts, while others are confined to one. It is true that trusts are said to be one of the departments in the jurisdiction of the chancellor, and all controversies between the trustee and cestuy que trust, or those claiming under the latter, may be brought generally in a court of chancery. The cestuy que trust, for the want of a legal right, must sue in equity, and on the contrary the trustee may do it, when he has a controversy with his cestuy que trust, in many cases. But these principles do not apply between the trustee and strangers. Hence it will be found, that most of the authorities cited in this case, and earnestly pressed, apply to cases between the trustee and cestuy que trust, or those claiming under them, and not between trustees and strangers to, or opposers of, the trust. *2 That a claimant in such case is a trustee does not alter the case. In contests with strangers, trustees have no more right to go into equity than absolute owners. Among these cases the case of  McGinty's administrators v. Haggin, &c. 2 Bibb, 265, has been cited, as it frequently is, to support the jurisdiction of the chancellor. To this case is opposed the subsequent train of decisions to which we have alluded. That stands as a solitary case long since overruled. Besides, the supposed authority of that case is shaken by a circumstance not mentioned by the reporter. It was re-heard, and afterwards went off on another point; so that the rights of even the parties to that suit were not settled by the doctrines there advanced; and still the first decision, which was afterwards set aside, found its way into the book of reports, and stands there as the final determination, and the last opinion was never published. The doctrines there advanced were immediately thereafter departed from, and never had any effect, even in the suits in which they were delivered. The opinion in McGinty v. Haggin, 2 Bibb, 256, was not the final decision, and on this point is not law. We can not, therefore, extend to these complainants, in this controversy between them and creditors by judgment and execution, the privilege of protecting their claims by resorting to a court of equity, merely because they are trustees, while other parties in their situation are turned round to a court of law. The decree must, therefore, be reversed, with costs; and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below, to dissolve the injunction, and dismiss the bill with costs. Robertson, for plaintiff; Montgomery, for defendants. Ky.App. 1825. Watkins v. Logan 3 T.B.Mon. 20, 19 Ky. 20, 1825 WL 1180 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
