(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 541,  20 Ky. 541 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1482 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Green's Heirs v. Breckinridge Heirs. May 4, 1827. *1 Bills of Review. Limitation. Absent Defendants. Parties. Proclamation. Decrees. Entries. APPEAL FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Affidavits 21 k 5 21 Affidavits 21k5 k. Authority to Take. Most Cited Cases A justice of the peace has no authority to administer oaths to affidavits of publication. Equity 150 k 123 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k120 Subpoena 150k123 k. Service. Most Cited Cases An affidavit of the publication of an order against an absent defendant cannot be made before a justice of the peace. Equity 150 k 431 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k431 k. Construction and Operation. Most Cited Cases A recital of facts in a decree, where the evidence thereof must be filed, and the evidence does not appear in the record, cannot be taken as true. Equity 150 k 441 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k441 k. Bill to Enforce Decree. Most Cited Cases A bill cannot be maintained to revive and execute a decree obtained against absent defendants, where it appears that all the requisites of the law as to the orders of the court, and their publication, were not complied with. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a bill brought to revive and enforce a decree in favor of the present appellees, rendered in 1803, against the ancestor of the appellants, directing him to convey a tract of land because it was covered by a supposed prior entry; set up in the original bill. The decree was rendered against the then defendant as a non-resident, after publication against him, without appearance or answer. The time for a writ of error had elapsed before this bill was brought, as well as the seven years allowed for the non-residents to contest it, and indeed, about sixteen years had passed away. Bill by the heirs of Breckinridge to revive a proclamation decree rendered for their ancestor against Green in his life time. The appellants contend in their answers, that the proceedings by publication were irregular, and the decree in pursuance thereof, absolutely void; or at least, so voidable that they ought to be allowed to question the original equity. Answer of the heirs of Green. The court below held the decree valid and incontestible, and carried it into effect, without any variation. From this decree, the appeal is prayed. Decree of the circuit court. It is evident that the main quesetion must be, whether this decree is void. For if it be voidable and erroneous merely, it might be difficult to sustain the right of the appellants, now to impeach it, after the hour for a writ of error is passed by; and perhaps by analogy, the right to a bill of review for errors apparent on the face of the decree, is gone also. *2 Perhaps a bill of review, for errors apparent in the decree, is limited to the time allowed for a writ of error. An order of publication was regularly made against John Green, through whom the appellants claim, fixing a day for his appearance at a future term. Orders of publication, and evidence of the insertion in the newspaper, and of its being posted at the court house and church door. The editor of the Kentucky Gazette, a then authorized newspaper, made oath before a justice of the peace, that the order had been regularly inserted for two months successively, in his paper, being the time required by law, and his affidavit is filed. The interlocutory decree recites the publication thus. "It appearing that the order to advertise against the absent defendants herein, has been duly advertised in the Kentucky Gazette, but has not been published at the door of the court house and meeting house; it is ordered that a copy of said order be posted at the door of the court house, and another at the door of the Presbyterian meeting house in Lexington, according to law; and that the proof thereof be made before entering the final decree." The order of publication itself, directed it to be "posted at the door of the court house for Fayette county; and that the order be published some Sunday, immediately after divine service, at the door of the Presbyterian meeting house, in the town of Lexington. At the final decree an affidavit was filed, made before a justice of the peace, by a person who was not a party, stating "that on the 23rd of the preceding July, he posted at the court house door in Lexington, one copy of the two orders to advertise; and on the 24th of the same month he posted another copy of the two orders, at the Presbyterian meeting house, in the said town of Lexington, according to law." The final decree makes its recital thus: "The report of the surveyor being returned pursuant to the interlocutory decree and order of this court, made herein at the last term, and it appearing that the order to advertise agreeably to said order being regularly advertised, it is decreed and ordained," &c. proceeding with the final decree. Recital of the proof of the publication of the orders in the decree. This history of the proceedings will show the following variances from the law, as it then stood. The act then in force permitting advertisement or publication against non-resident defendants, directed that "the court should, by order, point out some day in the succeeding term, for the absent defendant or defendants to enter his, her or their appearance to the suit;" and that "a copy of which order should be forthwith published in the Kentucky Gazette or Herald, and continued for two months successively, and also be published, on some Sunday, immediately after divine service, in such church or meeting house, as the court should direct; and another copy should be posted at the front door of the court house." *3 Act of '96, authorizing the advertisements and proclamations in suits against absent defendants. The affidavit of the editor does prove the publication in the Gazette. But that affidavit was not admissible evidence of the fact; a justice of the peace had no authority to administer the oath, and that power could only be exercised by the court, or some officer authorized by the court to administer it, as held by this court with regard to the proof of the service of a subpoena, in  Trabue's heirs v. Holt, &c. 2 Bibb, 393. An affidavit of the service of a subpoena or publication of an order in a suit against an absent defendant could not be made before a justice of the peace. But if this could be gotten over, the affidavit proves the publication in the paper only, and the want of further proof appearing, and the recital in the interlocutory decree, furnish conclusive evidence, that a copy of the order had not been posted at the court house door, or published in church; and to supply the defect, the party is directed to have that done after the interlocutory and before the final decree. The act is not precise in directing the time when the order should be posted at the court house door, or how long it should remain; but it certainly must be done some time between the date of the order and day of appearance. The same may be said of the publication of the order in church; and it is worthy of remark, that posting a copy at the door of the church, as directed by the court, did not comply with this requisition, but only a reading or proclaiming the order in the assembled church would do. It was necessary for the orders of proclamation, &c., against absent defendants, to be proclaimed in the church, and posted at the court house door before the appearance day, and for the proof to appear in the cause-- --By the act of '96, 1 Litt. L. K., 593. That this part of the order of court was complied with, is again attempted to be proved by affidavit before a justice of the peace; and the recital in the final decree evidently is based on this evidence. But if the evidence could be admitted, both it and the order of court, at the interlocutory decree directing it, presents an insuperable objection. The party was directed to post up at the door of the court house and church, an order of publication long expired in its terms. The witness swears that he posted a copy of two orders at each place, and the latest of these orders warned the absentee to appear on a day elapsed not less than two years before the copy was posted. This seemed like a mockery of the express requisitions of the statute. Publication of an order requiring the defendant to appear years before the publication, is nought. The recitals of the decrees are relied upon as showing that the court below had the proper proof before them and acted right. This presumption is a general and necessary one. But a recital of facts in a decree in chancery, where the evidence thereof must be filed, and the evidence does not appear in the record, can not be taken as true; and this holds good with regard to the service of process in the case of decrees by default, as held by this court in the case of  Peers v. Carter's heirs, 4 Litt. Rep. 268. *4 Recital in a decree, of the publication of the orders against an absent defendant, does not prove it, but the evidence must be filed. These iregularities would, undoubtedly, render this decree voidable; but the inquiry remains, is it void? This question we consider as substantially settled by former adjudications of the court. It is a principle too well known to need support, that no person can be affected by a record or decree, to which he is not a party, (except by proceedings in rem,) nor are his rights concluded by them; and it is already settled in Bond v. Hendricks, 1 Marsh, 592, and in Estill's heirs v. Clay, 2 Marsh, 500, that naming a party defendant, does not make him a party; and is only one of those previous acts necessary and preparatory, to make him so; and it is the service of process alone either actual or constructive, that actually makes him a party. Persons who do not appear to the bill, can be made parties to the decree only by service of process, actual or constructive. In the case of Moore v. Farrow &c. 1 Marsh. 41, it is held that a sale of lands by execution or decree in chancery, where there had been neither actual nor constructive service of process passed nothing, and the proceedings were void. The same doctrine was approved and recognized in the case of  Delano v. Jopling, 1 Litt. Rep. 417; and this court has been guided by these decisions ever since. Sales of land by execution, on a decree obtained without an appearance of service of process, passes nothing. Now, actual service here is not pretended, but the application is to amend and uphold, and heal defects in a service, which if perfect, could, at best, be constructive; and to conclude the rights of the appellants by force of law, while that law was not complied with. Such ex parte proceedings must be substantially complied with, and can not be held to less strictness before they can have any force. We perceive no sensible point at which we can stop, short of dispensing with publication altogether, if we once commence a dispensation, first with one and then with another requisite of law, and the best rule is to require a compliance with every requisite, or let all other acts and substitutes stand for nothing, in a case where the rights of parties are liable to be taken away without any actual notice of the proceeding. Such proceedings in the case of lands are, at best, of doubtful policy, and may be attended with monstrous consequences; and if carried too far, by construction upon construction, and one dispensation of law after another, might start constitutional scruples, how far the legislature could authorize any court to revoke a defendant's grant by ex parte proceedings, especially as it has been held, by high authority that the legislature can not do so by direct legislation. We, therefore, can not dispense with any requisite of the law in making publication, and until it is shown that all the requisites are complied with, we must treat this, as well as every other decree as void and inoperative on the rights of the parties concerned. This conclusion places the appellees back on their original equity, and they must succeed by that if at all. *5 Decrees obtained against absentees by the constructive notice--by proclamation and publication in the newspapers, are nought, unless it appears all the requisites of the law as to the orders and the advertisements of them are complied with____ --Bill will not be maintained to revive and execute such a decree. The complainants claim by virtue of an entry or pre-emption warrant, which has one simple call--and that is, "adjoining the settlement on the east side." The settlement certificate and entry calls to lie "on the north side of the north fork of Elkhorn creek, joining the lands of William Russell and Vaughn." Entry set up by complainant. Russell and Vaughn had two military surveys, which are admitted to be notorious at the date of the complainant's claim, joining each other in one common line the whole length thereof, and as north Elkhorn passes through each survey, on the north side of the stream, each presents a line, united at one common corner. As the complainant's settlement must join both, their claim must lie at this point, and be surveyed in a square, extending equal distances on the lines of Vaughn and Russell respectively, placing their common corner in the centre. This is the mode which the court below first directed the claim to be surveyed. Survey of the entries directed. The pre-emption, which is the claim in dispute, must be surveyed in a square, and placed in the angle formed by the settlement and Vaughn's line. Thus it will bind on the most eastwardly side of the settlement, and not interfere with Vaughn, whose claim is used as a call, on which its own existence depends. This is according to well settled principles, the mode of surveying this entry, and as it differs from that adopted by the court below in its first decree, it must give the complainants less land than they covered by the decree of the court below. The entry of the appellees need not be noticed, as it is posterior in date to that of the complainants below. Question reserved, left open till the necessary surveys are made. We observe that in the facts agreed by the parties, there is a reservation of some questions t??ching the effect of the possession of the parties respectively, which may arise in the event of the complainant's claim interfering with one in the name of Grant. As the rights of the parties on this point can not be understood until ascertained by survey, this point must, therefore, be kept open till the survey is made according to this opinion. The decree is reversed with costs, and the cause is remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Wickliffe, for plaintiffs; Haggin and Chinn, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Green's Heirs v. Breckinridge's Heirs 4 T.B.Mon. 541, 20 Ky. 541, 1827 WL 1482 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
