(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 242,  19 Ky. 242 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1282 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Miller v. Hall & Hanks. May 30, 1826. *1 Absent Defendants. Order of Publication. Editors' Certificate. Evidence. Practice. Parties. Mandate. APPEAL FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Process 313 k 104 313 Process 313II Service 313II(C) Publication or Other Notice 313k102 Mode and Sufficiency of Publication 313k104 k. Notice and Other Matters to Be Published.  Most Cited Cases In the publication of an order against an absent defendant, the omission of the term when the order was made is a fatal defect. Process 313 k 138 313 Process 313II Service 313II(E) Return and Proof of Service 313k138 k. Proof of Service by Publication. Most Cited  Cases A certificate of publication against absent defendants, signed by T., but without averring that he is the editor of the paper in which it was published, is insufficient. Process 313 k 138 313 Process 313II Service 313II(E) Return and Proof of Service 313k138 k. Proof of Service by Publication. Most Cited  Cases A certificate of an order of publication against absent defendants must be signed by the editor of the paper in which it was published. Process 313 k 138 313 Process 313II Service 313II(E) Return and Proof of Service 313k138 k. Proof of Service by Publication. Most Cited  Cases The editor of a paper which publishes service must make the affidavit thereto, and it cannot be made by proxy. Process 313 k 138 313 Process 313II Service 313II(E) Return and Proof of Service 313k138 k. Proof of Service by Publication. Most Cited  Cases A certificate of publication of service must show in what successive months the order was published. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Miller, the appellant, purchased a tract of land from the appellee, Richmond Hall, and executed his bonds for the purchase money, and received from Hall the assignment of a bond on a certain Wilson, stipulating to convey the land. Hall assigned one of the bonds for the purchase money to the appellee, Hanks, who brought suit thereon and recovered judgment; the rest of the bonds still remaining unpaid in the hands of Hall. Contract, assignment and judgment at law. To be relieved against this judgment, and vacate the contract entirely, Miller filed this bill, relying upon the grounds, that Hall, when he sold the land, did not possess it as owner, but as a tenant to an adverse claimant from whom he had first taken a lease, and after entering under the lease had bought of Wilson, another claimant, and had taken his bond to convey the land, and had concealed that circumstance, when he sold to Miller. That the lease was not expired at the sale, and that he, Miller, was bound to surrender the land to the lessor, and had done so. *2 Miller's bill for injunction and rescission of the contract against Hanks and Hall. Hanks, the assignee, answered the bill. Against Hall, as a non-resident, publication was directed. Order of publication The court below dismissed the bill on the merits--to reverse which decree this appeal is prosecuted. Decree. We differ from the court below on the merits of the case, and do not conceive that the claim can be sustained. But, as there are other points on a reversal of the decree, affecting the regularity of the proceedings, which must send the cause back for new proceedings, we forbear to render an opinion in detail upon the merits, as they may be much altered before another hearing. Remarks as to the merits. Hall was a necessary party, especially as the whole contract can not be vacated without him. Parties. An order of publication was regularly made against him in court. But the copy which is certified with the proof of its publication, has not with it, or on it, the date or term at which it was made. It requires the defendant to appear at the next April term, but at what April term, as a term of the same name revolves every year, can not be told for the want of the date or term, at which the order made. Of course the defendant could not be bound to appear, or know certainly when to appear. In the publication of the order of advertisement, against an absent defendant the omission of the term when the order was made is a fatal defect. All such publications are taken as constructive notice instead of the service of process, and they ought to be held to a strict compliance with the law. The certificate proving the insertion of the order, is also defective in not stating for what two successive months the order was inserted. There is no date to the certificate, and it was not filed for nearly two years after the order was made, during which, many periods of two months each, had passed by, and an insertion of the order during either of them, would have been a literal compliance with the letter of the certificate. The certificate of the publication of the order must shew in what successive months the order was published. Add to this, that it does not appear that the certificate was given by the editor of the paper in which it was inserted. Such certificates are made evidence of insertion by act of assembly, and the statement of an editor without oath, is to be taken as a sheriff's return, and the editor, pro hac vice, as a sheriff. It, however, does not follow that the court is bound judicially to know who is editor. It is, therefore, requisite that the editor should state himself to be the editor of the paper in which the insertion is made. Nor do we conceive that he can perform this act by proxy, as is attempted here. For the order is signed "Robert Spencer for John Spencer," and there is nothing telling whether either of them is editor. The editor of the paper, not his proxy, must certify the publication, and that he is editor must be stated on the certificate. *3 For these reasons the proof of the publication of the order is held to be utterly defective, and the court ought not to have dismissed the bill absolutely, because the cause was unprepared as to a necessary party. Decree reversed for new proceedings where there was a want of parties. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for appellant; Monroe, for appellees. Ky.App. 1826. Miller v. Hall 3 T.B.Mon. 242, 19 Ky. 242, 1826 WL 1282 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
