(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 48,  17 Ky. 48 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1478 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Steele v. Lewis, &c. Oct. 8, 1824. *1 Parties, Femes Covert, Attorney, Conveyances, Evidence. ERROR TO THE HENRY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Acknowledgment 12 k 25 12 Acknowledgment 12II Taking and Certificate 12k23 Mode of Taking Acknowledgment 12k25 k. Of Married Woman. Most Cited  Cases The deed of a feme covert, proved in one of the courts of a sister state without privy examination, is insufficient. Equity 150 k 91 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k89 Parties in General 150k91 k. Nature and Extent of Interest. Most Cited  Cases All concerned in the fee-simple estate ought to be before the court as parties in a suit in chancery brought to try the validity of entries and to procure a release of the elder grant. Equity 150 k 365 150 Equity 150VII Dismissal Before Hearing 150k360 Involuntary Dismissal 150k365 k. Dismissal Without Prejudice. Most Cited  Cases Where a bill is defective for want of proper parties, or otherwise, so that a decree cannot be entered for the plaintiff, a decree dismissing it ought to be without prejudice, where it appears probable that on a proper bill the plaintiff may recover something. Husband and Wife 205 k 58 205 Husband and Wife 205IV Disabilities and Privileges of Coverture 205IV(A) In General 205k58 k. Capacity to Appoint Agent, Attorney, or Trustee.  Most Cited Cases Before the act of February 1, 1812, a feme covert could not convey by letter of attorney;  and, where such conveyance was made before said date of the feme's interest in real estate, it was held that she was a necessary party to a bill to try the validity of the title to such estate. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. This is a bill filed enjoining a judgment in ejectment, and setting up an adverse entry, in the name of John Tyler, against an elder grant, issued in the name of Jacob Meyers. The court below investigated the merits of the entry, and directed the mode in which it should be surveyed; and upon its being discovered, that when thus surveyed, it would not cover the land in contest, the bill was dismissed. We have not thought it necessary to recite the entry, or enquire into its validity; because we are of opinion, that the court erred in giving a decree upon the merits, and that the bill, when dismissed, ought to have been dismissed without prejudice, for the want of proper parties to the controversy. The complainant below, showed a conveyance to himself and Willis Morgan, jointly, in pursuance of a sale for the non-payment of taxes, made by the register of the land-office, as the property of John Tyler, the patentee. Morgan is not a party, and the complainant shows no conveyance from him. *2 (1.) It has been repeatedly held by this court, that all concerned in the fee simple estate, ought to be before the court as parties, in a suit in chancery, brought to try the validity of entries and procure a release of the elder grant. So far as the complainant has attempted to derive title under this deed, he has shown another equally interested with him, not a party. (1) The parties to a bill for a release of the elder grant, on the ground of the superior entry, must include all concerned in the fee. (2.) The next attempt at showing title, is a conveyance of an undivided portion of the tract, by Charles Tyler, John Linton and Sally, his wife, late Sally Tyler, and Mary Linton, late Mary Tyler, as heirs of the patentee, John Tyler, executed by John M. Tyler, as attorney in fact for the grantors. The letter of attorney under which he acted, appears to have been acknowledged before two justices of the peace of Prince William county and State of Virginia, by John Linton and wife, and all the parties, as if the wife was not a feme covert, and is dated the 28th of October, 1810. Until the passage of an act of assembly on that subject, on the 1st of February, 1812, 2 Dig. L. K. 1048, there was no provision existing in this Commonwealth, permitting a feme covert to convey by letter of attorney, and hence the conveyance passed no title from the wife of John Linton, in whom the title was vested, and she became a necessary party, as was held by this court in the case of Stansbury's heirs v. Pope, 2 Marsh. 436. (2) Femes covert could not make attorneys to convey land in this state, prior to the act of 1812. They, when concerned in the fee, are necessary parties in a bill on an entry for a release of an adversary grant. (3.) The next deed, is a deed of confirmation, executed by John Linton and wife, in the State of Virginia. This deed only appears to have been signed by her, and not acknowledged on privy examination before the proper authority, and was proved in one of the courts of Virginia by three witnesses, and sent here and recorded. This left the title where it found it, and she was still a necessary party. (3) The deed of a feme covert, proved by witnesses in a court in Virginia, without privy examination, is insufficient to convey land in this State. As these deeds purported to pass an undivided interest in the tract, he next produced a deed of severance to him, from the same grantors, with others, assigning his part. This was attested and proved by witnesses in Virginia, precisely as the deed last named, and was still insufficient to pass the title of Sally Linton; and, of course, the proper parties were not there, to authorize a decree on the merits. (4.) The court below, it is true, might have dismissed the bill absolutely, for the want of proper parties; but all such dismissions ought to be without prejudice to a future suit, for the same ground of complaint, with the proper parties before the court. *3 (4) A bill may be dismissed absolutely, for want of proper parties; but always without prejudice to a future suit for the same cause, with proper parties. We will now attend to another ground of claim set up for the land by an amended bill. The defendant below had recovered a judgment in ejectment by virtue of a deed from his patentee, Jacob Myers. This deed was not recorded in due time; and pending this controversy, an execution was issued from the Fleming circuit court, on a decree in chancery in favor of George Johnson, against certain persons therein named, styled devisees and heirs of Jacob Myers, and was levied on this tract of land, and it was sold and purchased by Lowry Jones, to whom the sheriff conveyed, and he sold and conveyed to the complainant in this suit, who, by his amended bill, set up this title, insisting, that as the deed of the defendant was not recorded so as to render it valid against creditors, he, the complainant, had become possessed of the defendant's title, and thereby was entitled to a perpetual injunction. This claim was contested throughout, and particularly on the ground that the purchasers under the sale, had full notice of the deed and purchase of the defendant from Jacob Myers. The court below dismissed this amended bill, on the ground, that the claim was purely legal, and such as the chancellor would not aid in any shape. (5.) We need not enquire whether the reasons assigned by the court below for this dismission, were correct; for one other reason existed, which was conclusive. The record of the chancery suit was produced, containing the decree and execution under which the sale was made; and though these proceedings appear to have been had against divers persons, known and unknown, stated to be heirs or devisees of Jacob Myers. deceased, yet there is not a particle of proof that they were either heirs or devisees. If these persons had themselves conveyed the land, it would have been incumbent on the claimant under them to show their relation to Jacob Myers; and it can not be less so, when their title is asserted under an execution against them. The court, therefore, did not err in rejecting this claim. (5) To support a title derived by purchase under a decree purporting to be against the heirs and devisees of the former owner, it is necessary to prove that such persons were in fact the heirs and devisees. But because the dismission of the bill is final, when it ought to have been without prejudice, the decree must be reversed, and directions given to the court below to dismiss the bill without prejudice to any future suit for the same cause. Each party must bear his own costs in this court. Sharp, attorney-general, for plaintiff; Haggin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Steele v. Lewis 1 T.B.Mon. 48, 17 Ky. 48, 1824 WL 1478 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
