(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 246,  19 Ky. 246 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1284 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Alexander v. Reed & Myers. Jnn. 1, 1826. *1 Non-joinder. Mis-joinder. Abatement. Feme Covert. ERROR TO THE BATH CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 18 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k18 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases . It is no ground for a nonsuit that a feme covert, or one not guilty, is sued in this action. The plaintiff may recover against such as he proves guilty. Parties 287 k 90 287 Parties 287VI Defects, Objections, and Amendment 287k89 Misjoinder of Parties Defendant 287k90 k. Operation and Effect. Most Cited  Cases It is no ground for nonsuit that one not guilty is sued in forcible entry and detainer. Abatement and Revival 2 k 84 2 Abatement and Revival 2VI Waiver of Grounds of Abatement and Time and Manner of Pleading in General 2k84 k. Pleading to Merits and Further Proceedings. Most Cited Cases After issue has been joined, the coverture of defendant cannot be set up in abatement of the action. Husband and Wife 205 k 230 205 Husband and Wife 205VI Actions 205k228 Pleading 205k230 k. Defense of Coverture. Most Cited  Cases After issue has been joined the coverture cannot be set up in abatement of the action. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the facts. John Alexander, the appellant, issued his warrant of forcible entry and detainer against Peter Reed and Susanna Myers, which came by a traverse into the circuit court. On the trial it was proved that Susanna Myers was married, but that her husband had forsaken her some twelve or fifteen years since, and now resided in the state of Indiana, and that Peter Reed lived with her in a supposed state of adultery, and in the language of the neighborhood, was said rather to live with her, than she with him, and that she lived near the premises in contest, and Peter Reed and two of her sons, who were minors, and acted under her direction, committed the forcible entry complained of in the warrant. The court below, on the motion of the appellees, instructed the jury as in case of a non-suit, because the husband of the said Susanna was not joined in the warrant, and this presents the question for our revision. Instructions for non-suit because non-joinder of absent husband. The decision of the circuit court can not be sustained; for if it be admitted that Susanna Myers could not be convicted of the force unless her husband was joined, or that he ought to have been sued alone for the force, which she had committed, it does not follow that in this case, which is evidently founded in tort, the plaintiff must be turned entirely out of court, and that Peter Reed could not have been convicted. For in all civil cases in tort merely, if the plaintiff joins defendants not guilty, or brings his action against those of whom he can not recover, he may recover against others who are rightfully sued. *2 That a feme covert or one not guilty is sued in forcible entry and detainer is no ground for non suit; plaintiff may recover against such as he proves guilty. But it can not be admitted that the motion ought to have prevailed as to Susanna Myers. For if it be conceded that she could not be removed from the land, until her husband who resided in another state could be reached, (which seems absurd), the matter on which she relied was matter of abatement only. Query--May not a feme covert whose husband had long before abandoned her and the state be sued alone in forcible entry and detainer. Taking this proceeding as a civil action for a tort, it must be set out at the proper hour by plea in abatement, 1 Chitt. 437, and according to the decision of this court, in the case of  Jones v. Overton, 4 Bibb, 334, after issue is made by a traverse of the inquisition, an enquiry into matters which operate in abatement only are excluded. In this action as in others, coverture of defendant and other matters in abatement must be so pleaded, and after issue joined on, the traverse can not be enquired into. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside and the cause be remanded, for further proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiff; Mayes, for defendants. Ky.App. 1826. Alexander v. Reed 3 T.B.Mon. 246, 19 Ky. 246, 1826 WL 1284 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
