(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 272,  21 Ky. 272 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1550 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Minor v. Kelly. Jun. 28, 1827. *1 Pleading. Consideration. Vendor and Vendee. Immaterial Issues. Rescission of Contracts. Replication. ERROR TO THE GARRARD CIRCUIT; JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGE. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 434 302 Pleading 302XIX Aider by Verdict or Judgment 302k434 k. Defects in or Want of Plea or Answer. Most Cited  Cases Where defendant's pleas can be admitted as true, and yet plaintiff be entitled to judgment, a verdict for defendant cannot avail him. Pleading 302 k 436 302 Pleading 302XIX Aider by Verdict or Judgment 302k436 k. Defects in or Want of Replication or Reply. Most Cited  Cases A verdict for defendant, where he fails to rejoin to an affirmative replication, is of no avail. Sales 343 k 124 343 Sales 343III Modification or Rescission of Contract 343III(C) Rescission or Revocation of Acceptance by Buyer 343k122 Conditions Precedent 343k124 k. Restoration of Goods. Most Cited  Cases One imposed on in the purchase of unsound goods must immediately restore them, or show why he did not, in order to rescind the contract. Slaves 356 k 7 356 Slaves 356k7 k. Transfers of Slaves. Most Cited Cases An allegation that slaves at the time of a sale were affected with consumption, from which they subsequently died, is not sufficient to show an entire failure of consideration for the execution of a note. Bonds 58 k 120 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k120 k. Defenses. Most Cited Cases Total failure of consideration, but not partial, is a defense under the statute. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. To a petition and summons, on a note stipulating the payment of a sum of money, the defendant pleaded that the note was executed in consideration of a negro woman slave and her child, sold to the defendant by the plaintiff, which were represented to be the proper slaves of the plaintiff, and that the slaves were not, at the time the proper slaves of the plaintiff, but the legal title thereto was in a certain James Fisher and John Reuben. Plea to consideration. To this the plaintiff replied, that at the time of the sale, the slaves were in his possession, and that in pursuance of the sale, he delivered the possession of them to the defendant, and that he still held and peaceably detained them, whereby the consideration of the note had not wholly failed. To this replication there was no rejoinder. Replication. Pending the suit, and after a trial and new trial, the defendant added another plea to this effect: "That the slaves, at the time of the sale were unsound, and affected with a consumption, with which, since the last continuance of the cause, they had died, which unsoundness the plaintiff had fraudulently concealed at the sale, so that the consideration had utterly failed." *2 Second plea to the consideration of the note sued on. To this the plaintiff replied, that there had not been an entire failure of consideration, and that he had not concealed the unsoundness of said slaves from the defendant, at the time of the sale aforesaid. Replication. On the issue standing thus, a jury was sworn who found a verdict for the defendant; to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted. Verdict and judgment for defendant. It is clear that no judgment rendered for the defendant in such case, can stand, if his pleas can be admitted as true, and yet the plaintiff be entitled in law to recover. That, we apprehend, is the case here, and the issues attempted to be made up are immaterial. Where defendant's pleas can be admitted as true, and yet the plaintiff be entitled to judgment, verdict for defendant can not avail him. As to the first plea, it is clear that the plaintiff might not have been possessed of the legal title of the slaves at the sale, but yet might be entitled to the use and possession thereof, and such an interest might even be the subject of sale. That use and possession might have been delivered to the defendant, which would form at least a partial consideration of the note; and it is well settled, that a plea which attempts to impeach and go into the consideration of a written instrument, must show an entire, and not a partial failure of consideration. An ill plea to the consideration because it did not shew an entire failure of the consideration. Add to this, the plaintiff replied, such delivery of possession and subsequent continued use thereof since the sale, which was sufficient to avoid the plea if good. In answer to this the defendant was silent, and therefore there was on this first plea, no issue, by the omission of the defendant himself. Verdict for defendant, where he failed to rejoin to an affirmative replication, avails not. The second plea was equally bad. If the slaves were unsound at the sale, and that unsoundness was not disclosed, it was necessary to aver that the plaintiff knew of it. Besides it was indispensable that the defendant on discovering that unsoundness, if he was defrauded by the concealment thereof, should have disaffirmed the contract and tendered back the slaves, and to have shown that matter in his plea; or have set out some good excuse for not having done so, by showing that they were too ill to be thus restored or the like. One imposed on in the purchase of a diseased slave, ought to immediately offer to restore the property, or shew why he did not. And at all events, if he did not disaffirm the contract, he must show that they have rendered him no service, or that he has derived no benefit from them since the sale. For if he did derive even a partial benefit, he of course received a partial consideration, and for his loss as to the residue, the law gives him an adequate remedy for the fraud, by an action, and he can not set it up by way of defense. *3 If there be any value received out of the property, the plea to the consideration fails. Because, therefore, the issues are wholly immaterial, the judgment must be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below, to set aside all the pleadings subsequent to the declaration, and to award a repleader, and for such further proceedings as may not be inconsistent with this opinion. Judgment reversed because the issue, found for defendant, who committed first fault, were immaterial, and repleaders awarded. Turner, for plaintiff; Robertson, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Minor v. Kelly 5 T.B.Mon. 272, 21 Ky. 272, 1827 WL 1550 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
