(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 603,  10 Ky. 603 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1184 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Smith et al. v. William Crow. Jun. 13, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE WASHINGTON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A call for "the head of a creek" is not a good locative call, unless some point has acquired that reputation, or its certainty is made evident by nature. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The appellee in this case has set up three entries in their bill to recover the same piece of land from elder patents. Two of these entries have not been contended for as valid, in argument, and on examination of the case, we conceive there is no pretext from the proof for contending for their validity. They will not, therefore, be further noticed. The third, which has been relied upon in argument, and which has been sustained by the court be low, and on which relief was given, is in the following words: "John Davidson enters 1,000 acres (of land) upon a treasury warrant, No. 4,702; beginning one and a half miles below the head of the left hand fork of Indian Lick creek and running northwardly and westwardly for quantity, including the heads of Cedar Lick creek. December 14, 1782." Indian Lick and Cedar Lick creeks are two parallel branches of the rolling fork of Salt river, at some distance asunder, with at least one intervening and parallel branch of considerable size They are both shown to have been notoriously known by their respective names previous and subsequent to the date of this entry. Some observations have been made in the argument relative to the uncertainty in the expression, "left hand fork," whether it is to be intended to apply to a person passing up or down the stream. Whatever might be the construction or meaning of such expression, in relation to large streams and under different circumstances, we do not conceive there is any doubt in the present case. Indian Lick creek has at least one left hand fork as the traveller passes up the stream; and this appears to have been the true one in the understanding of all the witnesses who speak on the subject, and who were conversant with the stream in early times, They well knew what was designated by the left hand fork. Thus far we conceive the calls of this entry could be distinctly traced. The difficulty occurs in what follows. This difficulty is somewhat increased by the singularity of the record. We can pay no compliment to the preparation of the parties in the cause and less to the surveyor, who, as being directed to amend, has still crowded the record with a new plat and report somewhat unintelligible--and still less to the clerk, who, in making out his copy, has crowded it with more than one copy of the same depositions, with notices, affidavits, surveyors' fees, &c., which composed legally no part of the record. We, however, discover that the surveyor has reported one point, as the one placed at the distance of one and a half mile from the head of the left hand fork. *2 In small streams "the left hand fork" is to be ascertained by ascending the stream. Here uncertainty commences in the locative calls of this entry. It is a general rule, settled by former decisions of this court that a call for the head of a stream, as a locative object, is an uncertain call. This rule is founded on good reasons. Every person who knows the face of the county, also knows that streams generally are much ramified near the head, so as to make many rival sources, each claiming to be the head, and it is often difficult, if not impossible, to determine which has the fairest claim by nature to the appellation of "the head." Besides, the termination of each of these branches are frequently not at any sensible point, such as a spring fixed at the head of the stream and ending it, but a gradual lesing of the channel till it is insensibly lost in the dividing ridge. To this general rule, however, there have been, and ought to be some well founded exceptions. One is where reputation has affixed to a certain spot the appellation of the head in exclusion of others. Such a call has been sustained, even where another rival spot seemed better entitled, by nature, to the name "head." This case, however, is not embraced by this exception. For reputation of any place as "the head of the left hand fork," is not shown in this cause. Another exception to this rule may be, where the stream is singular in its existence, and not ramified but terminates in its ascent, in a sensible and single fountain easily distinguished as the head of the stream by nature. This, however, is not shown to be the case with the present stream. No such source is shown which the subsequent adventurer could distinguish from other ramifications as the head of the left hand fork. This left hand fork divides, according to some plats, into two other streams or forks, and on, at least, one plat into three forks and for anything that appears in the cause there may be more. Neither of these are shown to have a certain determinate head either by nature or reputation. Besides, it does not appear that either or all of these branches were meandered. They appear by marks, or drawing on the plats, but whether that showing is the conjectured delineations of the pen or pencil, or the position of the stream fixed by actual survey we are not told. These remarks, with regard to the head of Indian Lick creek, or its left hand fork, at the beginning of this entry, leaves great uncertainty in the beginning, and apply with greater force to its termination, or the points the entry must include. These are not the head, but the heads of Cedar Lick creek. They are confessed to be more than one by the face of the entry itself. Of course the certainty of each of these heads as such either by reputation or by nature, must be shown, and the difficulty and uncertainty are in creased in proportion to the number. How many of these heads there are, we not are told or shown either by the testimony of witnesses or the reports of survey. Exclusive of the plat which was presented in the court below, after the interlocutory decree, some show but two heads, and others show more; and there is a probability of more still. For these heads are as conjectural as to their position as the heads of the left hand fork of Indian Lick. Whether the heads and all the heads of Cedar Lick, are or can be shown with certainty by actual survey on the ground, we are not told. It certainly lay upon the party relying on this entry, to identify all its calls. First, the head of the left hand fork of Indian Lick, with such certainty that it could be found, known and discriminated from other places, having pretensions to the same name; and, also, to designate and point out the existence and true situation of all the heads of Cedar Lick, so that no uncertainty should be left what heads and how many were to be included.--This we conceive he has failed to do, and for this reason his entry must be deemed invalid, without going into the much disputed fact, litigated in the cause as to the true place, where the appellees original survey was made, and the decree of the court below is therefore deemed erroneous. *3 The call for "the head of a creek" is bad, as locative, unless some point has acquired that reputation, or nature has pointed out some particular spring as the head. The decree must be reversed with costs, and a mandate given to dismiss the bill with costs. Daviess for appellant, Wickliffe for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Smith v. Crow 3 A.K.Marsh. 603, 10 Ky. 603, 1821 WL 1184 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
