(Cite as: 2 A.K.Marsh. 369,  9 Ky. 369 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1060 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Leonard K. Bradley v. Charles Morgan et al. Jun. 12, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 423 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k422 Errors and Irregularities 228k423 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A court of equity will not interfere with a judgment at law on the ground that it is erroneous. Judgment 228 k 439 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k439 k. Compelling Set-Off or Reduction of Damages. Most  Cited Cases A judgment at law for breach of a covenant to convey land cannot be enjoined on the ground that defendant is entitled to recover damages for breach by plaintiff of his bond to convey other land to defendant equal in value to the amount of plaintiff's judgment. Set-Off and Counterclaim 352 k 35(1) 352 Set-Off and Counterclaim 352II Subject-Matter 352k35 Demands Not Liquidated 352k35(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases A court of equity cannot set off an unliquidated demand on contract against a judgment at law. Specific Performance 358 k 38 358 Specific Performance 358II Contracts Enforceable 358k38 k. Oral Contracts in General. Most Cited Cases Specific performance of a verbal contract which is executory, and depends on a future event which may never happen, will not be decreed. Specific Performance 358 k 39 358 Specific Performance 358II Contracts Enforceable 358k39 k. Oral Contracts Within Statute of Frauds. Most Cited Cases Specific performance of a parol executory contract for conveyance of land cannot be enforced. Specific Performance 358 k 59 358 Specific Performance 358II Contracts Enforceable 358k59 k. Contracts Subject to Conditions. Most Cited Cases Specific performance of a contract dependent on a contingency cannot be enforced before the happening of the contingency. Specific Performance 358 k 106(1) 358 Specific Performance 358IV Proceedings and Relief 358k106 Parties 358k106(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Assignors of a contract for conveyance of land are necessary parties to a suit in equity by the assignee against the obligors for specific performance of the contract. Assignments 38 k 129 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k129 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases Where a suit is brought by an equitable assignee, the assignor should be made a party. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases An unliquidated contract for land will not be set off against a judgment, when the remedy at law is complete. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 Willis Morgan, for his use, in the name of With, obtained a judgment in the court below, for the breach of the covenant of a bond, binding Bradley to convey a tract of land. This bond was executed by Bradley to With, who assigned it to Charles Morgan, who assigned it to Willis Morgan. To be relieved against this judgment, Bradley filed his bill, setting up, as grounds of relief, 1st. That he had received a letter of attorney from Charles Morgan to sell the same land, which was to be conveyed by Bradley's bond to With, and out of the proceeds of the sale to pay and satisfy himself for the excess in a land contract which Morgan had made with Samuel Boone and that Boone had assigned this contract to Samuel Boone, jr., and Rogers Jones, but had given one-third of it previously to him, Bradley, and that the assignment thereof to Boone the younger, and Jones, was for his benefit as to that third. That in the contract Boone the elder had sold Wood's pre-emption to Charles Morgan, and as the consideration thereof, C. Morgan paid said Boone 247 acres where he, Boone, resided; but if more than 247 acres was held by Wood's pre-emption, so sold to Morgan, he, Morgan, was to pay for the excess in other lands. That he had sold the land pursuant to the power; but that it was not yet ascertained what would be secure by Wood's pre-emption, and therefore the price of the land sold could not yet be ascertained for what excess Morgan was to account. 2dly. He alleges that he, Bradley, had purchased of James Grimes, and obtained the assignment of a bond executed by C. Morgan to Richard Wade in 1784, and assigned in 1785 to said Grimes, and by Grimes to Bradley, conditioned for the conveyance of 200 acres of land on Slate creek, which bond he alleged was broken by a failure to convey on the part of Morgan, and this claim he prays to be discounted likewise. 3dly. He alleges that the court and jury, on the trial at law in the suit of With for the use of Morgan, made a mistake in the quantum of damages, and charged him with the value of the land to be conveyed at the time of the trial, and not at the date of the contract, which was very small, indeed; and he prays that this mistake may be corrected. He obtained an injunction, which, on a final hearing, the court below dissolved, and decreed that unless Bradley, on or before a day named in the decree, should, by an amendment to his bill, make Samuel Boone, sen., Samuel Boone, jr., Roger Jones, Richard Wade, and James Grimes, parties, his bill should be dismissed without prejudice. This amendment was refused by Bradley, and the bill dismissed accordingly. From which decree Bradley has appealed. A chancellor should not decree a verbal contract by which an obligee agrees to a discount of his contingent future liability, if land sold is lost, in discharge of a present duty of the obligor--because it is verbal, and because it is executory, and depends on a future event which may never happen. A chancellor can not set off an unliquidated land contract against a judgment at law. *3 A chancellor can not revise the errors in law of courts of law--another tribunal is provided for that purpose. An assignee resorting to equity for a specific execution against an obligor, should bring his assignors before the court. On reviewing this case, we discover no error in the proceedings of the court below. On the first ground of equity, the jurisdiction of the chancellor can not be supported. It set up a verbal contract between the parties, in which C. Morgan is alleged to have agreed to accept, in discharge of the bond on which judgment is founded, compensation for the breach, by a discount in another contract for lands, in which the event of Morgan's liability, at all, was future and contingent, and therefore not yet executed. If this award and satisfaction had been complete by an acceptance of the satisfaction after the breach, on the part of Morgan, before the trial at law, it might have then been pleaded. But as it was verbal, and an accord only, and tending to retard the operation of the obligation on Bradley, the chancellor ought not to decree it specifically, and delay the recovery at law till the event happened, when Morgan then would have the right to reject the satisfaction stipulated. The second ground of equity is equally untenable. The chancellor ought not to attempt to liquidate and set off an unliquidated landed contract against a judgment, when the parties' remedy at law was complete. The allegation of Morgan's insolvency can not be availing; for it is denied, and not supported by proof. On the third ground of equity, the chancellor will not, and ought not, to act the part of a revising court over the mistakes of law made by a court of common law. To correct these, another tribunal is provided competent for the task. On this point his bill was properly dismissed. Although Bradley was not entitled to relief by injunction, yet as on the landed contracts which he held on C. Morgan, he might have been entitled to a specific execution, and to compensation in case the former could not be obtained, he was properly directed to bring the parties concerned in interest before the court; and as the assignments of these contracts could only give him an equity in, and not a legal title to, these contracts, on account of the date at which they were made, and on one of them he had no assignment at all when his bill was filed, his assignors ought to have been before the court; and on his refusal to bring them there, his bill was properly dismissed. The decree must therefore be affirmed with costs and damages, upon the damages given below. Wickliffe, for appellant; Humphries, for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Bradley v. Morgan 2 A.K.Marsh. 369, 9 Ky. 369, 1820 WL 1060 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
