(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 456,  10 Ky. 456 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1130 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Commonwealth v. Mason et al. Jun. 5, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE CASEY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Recognizances 325 k 2 325 Recognizances 325k2 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited Cases A recognizance need not be signed by the recognizors. Bail 49 k 55 49 Bail 49II In Criminal Prosecutions 49k54 Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k55 k. Requisites and Validity in General. Most Cited  Cases A recognizance to answer a charge of felony need not be signed by either the principal or surety.  A certificate by the justices that the recognizance was acknowledged before them on the day of its date is sufficient. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a scire facias upon a recognizance taken from the appellee and another, conditioned that one of them should appear, on a given day, in the court below to answer a charge of felony. The appellee appeared, and after craving oyer of the recognizance demurred, and his demurrer being joined by the attorney for the commonwealth, the court sustained the demurrer and gave judgment for the appellee, whereupon the com'lth. appealed. In a recognizance to answer a charge of felony, it is not necessary that the principal or hail should sign it. It is contended by the appellee that the certificate of one justice of the peace, annexed to the recognizance, is insufficient, and that it ought to have been certified by the two enquiring magistrates. The recognizance is in the form prescribed by the act of assembly, and both the parties, principal and bail, signed it. This was probably done out of abundant caution; but we deem such signing unnecessary, and that the recognizance was good without. For the two justices of the peace annex to it their certificates in the following words: "Acknowledged before us the day and date above written." To which they both subscribe their names. One of the justices afterwards annexed a certificate to the following effect. "To the Hon. William L. Kelly, circuit judge for the Casey circuit court: I do hereby certify to your honor, that the above and foregoing recognizance was duly acknowledged, before us, James Allen and John Rife, two of the justices of the peace in and for Casey county, by James Mason and John Feland, on the day it purports to have been executed." To this certificate he subscribed his name. We view this certificate unnecessary--the recognizance was complete without it. The statement of the justices, at the first, signed by them, that it was acknowledged before them, was all the certificate required by law. The justices are directed to deliver such recognizance to the clerk, without further attestation. As the certificate of the one justice shews no fact contradicting the former certificate or recognizance, it certainly cannot vitiate it.--This objection is therefore deemed wholly untenable. *2 The examining justices need give no other certificate than that the recognizance was acknowledged before them on the day of its date. As to the scire facias, it appears in legal form, and to contain every allegation necessary to shew the defendants below bound by their recognizance. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs and the cause remanded, with directions for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1821. Com. v. Mason 3 A.K.Marsh. 456, 10 Ky. 456, 1821 WL 1130 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
