(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 263,  19 Ky. 263 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1288 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Berry v. Berry's Heirs. Oct. 3, 1826. *1 Parties. Injunction. Practice. Mandate. APPEAL FROM THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT; WM. L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Injunction 212 k 1524 212 Injunction 212V Actions and Proceedings 212V(B) Parties 212k1524 k. Necessary and indispensible parties. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 212k114(1)) Where the grantee of certain heirs recovered in ejectment against a party claiming an equity under their ancestor, and it appears that one of the heirs did not join in the conveyance, he must be made a party to the grantee's bill for injunction and relief. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The heirs of Arthur Fox took by descent from their father, the legal title to a tract of land, they being four in number. One or them afterwards died, leaving children, to whom descended one undivided fourth of the title. The present appellant, Benjamin Berry, obtained from the surviving three, a conveyance of the land, which made him a tenant in common with the children of the remaining heir, who united with him in an ejectment, and obtained a judgment in the court below. Judgment in ejectment on the demise of the children of one of the heirs of A. Fox and Benj. Berry, the alienee of the others. To be relieved against this judgment the appellees filed this bill, setting up an entry derived mediately from Arthur Fox in his lifetime. In the bill, the appellant is made defendant by name; and the legal representatives of Fox by the style of the heirs of A. Fox, without naming them, or stating that they were unknown. An injunction was obtained to the judgment at law. The appellant answered, and no proceedings were had to bring the heirs of Arthur Fox before the court. Bill by the defendants in the ejectment against Berry by name, and the heirs of A. Fox, by that stile for injunction, &c., on an equity from Fox in his lifetime. On a final hearing, the court rendered an interlocutory decree, that the appellant ought to convey; and the appellees discontinued as to the heirs of Fox. A final decree was afterwards rendered, perpetuating the injunction, and directing the appellant to convey the whole land claimed by the appellee. Decree against Berry. From this decree, Benjamin Berry has appealed and assigns, among other things, the want of proper parties. Assignment of errors. In the former opinion rendered in this cause, it escaped the attention of the court, that the whole title was not conveyed to the appellant, by the heirs of Fox, and that the judgment perpetually enjoined was rendered in favor of part of the whole of the heirs of Fox, as well as the appellant. It is there assumed that the heirs of Arthur Fox had conveyed the complete title, and that, as their ancestor had parted with the equity in his lifetime, and the heirs had conveyed the legal title since his death, they could have no interest to protect, and were, therefore, unnecessary parties, and that conclusion from the premises assumed, we still believe correct. *2 Where the alienee of the heirs recovers in ejectment of one claiming an equity under their ancestor, he need not make the heirs defendants to his bill for injunction and relief. But upon a more critical examination of the record, on a rehearing, we discover that part of the heirs of Fox, to-wit, the children of one of his children, have not conveyed, and hold one-fourth of the judgment enjoined. They were, therefore, necessary parties, and it was erroneous to hear the cause till they were before the court, and to render a final decree after the suit, as to them, was dismissed. But if in such case part only of the heirs had conveyed and the judgment is for their alienee and the other heirs, these must be made party. It is not compatible with former decisions of this court, or the rules which govern a court of chancery, to permit a complainant to maintain a bill, and procure relief by conveyance of the legal estate, against one or more of joint tenants, tenants in common, or parceners, omitting others; nor can aninjunction be granted to a judgment for the realty, unless all the holders of that judgment are before the court. To permit such a procedure would multiply suits, instead of lessening the number, and would, in the event of separate suits, against each of the holders of an undivided interest separately, present the spectacle of relief against some, and a refusal of relief as to others, and of a judgment enjoined in part, and let loose in part, so that it could with difficulty be executed, or could not be executed at all. In a bill for a conveyance of the legal estate held by parceners, joint tenants or tenants in common, all must be made defendants. In the bill for injunction to a judgment for the realty, all the holders of the judgment must be parties. The equity claimed against Fox, by the allegations of the parties and proof in this cause, is clear against the heirs of Fox in favor of the appellees, to some land, and the controversy rests upon the extent of that equity and the place where it is to lie. We would, therefore, not be understood as deciding that it is necessary, even now, to bring those of Fox's heirs before the court who have conveyed to the appellant, and who are not parties to the judgment at law; but only those who have not conveyed and have a judgment, and have not had the opportunity of contesting herein the equity set up by the appellees against the title descended to them from their ancestor, and the judgment obtained by them, in conjunction with the appellant. The above principles applied to the case. It will, also, result that not only are they necessary parties, but, also, the heirs of John Craig, from whom the complainants below derive their equity, and who derived his from Arthur Fox; and no decree ought to be rendered on the merits till all are before the court. One from whom complainant derived his equity a necessary party. This conclusion renders it unnecessary to say any thing on the merits which were considered in the former opinion. *3 Mandate on reversal for want of parties, for time to be given for parties to be made; otherwise, &c. The decree of the court below, as well as the former decree of this court must, therefore, be reversed, with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below to dismiss the bill with costs, and without prejudice to any future suit for the same cause, unless the complainants below shall, in a reasonable time given for that purpose, bring the necessary parties before the court. Wickliffe, for appellants; Talbot and Crittenden, for appellees. Ky.App. 1826. Berry v. Berry's Heirs 3 T.B.Mon. 263, 19 Ky. 263, 1826 WL 1288 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
