(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 359,  10 Ky. 359 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1095 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Gowan & Stockton v. Jacob Cassidy. Apr. 17, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE BATH CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 169 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k160 Actions 353k169 k. Evidence. Most Cited Cases In an action against a constable and his sureties for failure to return an execution and for the nonpayment of money collected, evidence of a settlement between such constable and his predecessor, and the payment over by the acting constable of the money collected, is not admissible. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an action against a constable and his securities, on his bond of office, with a breach assigned, for not returning an execution, also for the non-payment of the money collected. On the trial, the justice of the peace was introduced who issued the execution. He deposed that he placed the execution in the hands of the defendant below, and that it never had been returned to him; but that the constable had told him, said justice, that he had collected the money, but claimed it as his own. The justice further deposed, that a person, who had been a predecessor in office of the present constable, and who stated that he had given a receipt for the demand to the present relators, directed him, said justice, when the money was collected, to pay it to the relators, if his receipt was produced. That since then, the present and former constable had an entire settlement in the presence of him, said justice, including all executions and other demands, and the present constable discharged all balances due to the former one. The counsel for the plaintiff moved the court to direct the jury to disregard so much of that testimony as proved any settlement between the present and former constable, or any payment of the money in contest to the former. The court overruled the motion, and the jury found for the defendants. We can not see any propriety in admitting the evidence objected to. There was nothing proved conducing to shew that the former constable had any authority to control the demand, much less to settle for and receive the money. Any acts or savings of his were improper as evidence to discharge the present constable and his securities. He was bound to account to the plaintiffs in execution, or those authorized by them, and to no others. A settlement between an acting constable and his predecessor, and the payment over by the acting constable of money collected in the name of another, does not discharge him, though the former constable had receipted for the note. The judgment must therefore be reversed and verdict set aside with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings accordant with this opinion. Bibb, for appellant. Ky.App. 1820. McGowan v. Cassidy 3 A.K.Marsh. 359, 10 Ky. 359, 1821 WL 1095 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
