(Cite as: 4 Litt. 268,  14 Ky. 268 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1276 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Peers v. Carter's Heirs and Devisees. Nov. 26, 1823. *1 FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JOHN P. OLDHAM SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 130 228 Judgment 228IV By Default 228IV(A) Requisites and Validity 228k130 k. Recitals. Most Cited Cases A recital in a decree that process was duly served on defendant is insufficient to support a judgment by default, where the record does not contain the return of the officer, or his affidavit, showing that the process was duly served. Affidavits 21 k 9 21 Affidavits 21k9 k. Form and Contents. Most Cited Cases An affidavit should be so clear and positive that an indictment for perjury may be maintained on it. CRITTENDEN for plaintiff; SHARP and BIBB for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Two of the heirs and devisees of Hebe Carter, as of mature age, and three others as infants, by their guardian filed their bill, alleging that their mother, "being a feme sole, by her last will and testament, devised her estate to them, and shortly afterwards died; that Valentine Peers, one of the executors constituted by the will, had obtained probat thereof, received the effects of the decedent, entered upon her interest in the Little Sandy Salt-works, made leases thereof and received the rents thereon; but had rendered no account of them, though applied to therefor, nor paid the amount thereof. They then pray an account to be taken and a decree in their favor. A subpoena issued, which has no return thereon; but it is endorsed as follows: The recital in a decree, that service of the subpoena in chancery was proved, is insufficient, unless the record shows an officer's return or affidavit to support it. The affidavit ought to be so clear and positive, that an indictment for perjury could be maintained on it, if false, and ought to be made in court and reduced to writing and made part of the record. "I acknowledge legal service of the within, November 20th, 1820. VAL. PEERS." After the bill had remained some time in this situation, an amendment was filed, the whole substance of which is as follows: "That the said Peers, as executor, had received moneys due the estate of the decedent, and on account thereof, to the amount of twenty thousand dollars, and that he was in arrear, and that there was due from him to the complainants, after allowing all disbursements and all just credits, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars." They again prayed an account. This amendment remained in the cause during two subsequent terms, and no answer was filed. At the third term the cause was heard, and the bill taken as confessed, and a decree rendered for the sum of fifteen thousand dollars, to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted. It seems, that where an original bill is so defective or vague, that no decree could be pronounced on it, if taken pro confesso, no decree ought to be pronounced on an amendment taken pro confesso, unless process had issued on the amendment and been executed. *2 Various errors are assigned, some of which will be noticed. It is contended, that the infants could not sue by guardian, but were bound to sue by their next friend. It is true, that such bills are usually prosecuted by prochein ami; yet it is clear that infants may sue by guardian, and no doubt the statutory or testamentary guardian of this country, may thus be made use of to sustain the suit of wards. See 2 Maddock Chan. 140, Harrison Pract. Chan. title Infants. It is insisted that no sufficient service of process is made appear, to warrant the taking the bill as confessed by the court below. The whole evidence on this point, is the acknowledgment of service above recited, and the decree itself recites that "service in the subpoena herein being proved to the court, to have been made on the defendant on the 21st November, 1820, and the defendant having failed to answer the bill and amended bill filed herein, and the same being taken for confessed," &c. It is clear that the endorsement of an acknowledgment on the subpoena, cannot alone be a sufficient proof of the service; for whether that endorsement of the acknowledgment be or be not genuine, is a fact open to inquiry and needs proof as much as the service would, if no such acknowledgment had been made. We attach no importance to the date of acknowledgment being different from the date of service recited in the decree; for the date of the acknowledgment is one day before the date of the subpoena itself, which conduces strongly to prove that the date of acknowledgment was a mistake. The most serious question must be, is the recital in the decree sufficient proof that the subpoena was served? On the one hand, it is contended that the declaration of the chancellor, that such proof was made, ought to be taken as true, and that it ought to be presumed that every thing was rightly done, till the contrary appears. On the other, it is insisted that the recital is not sufficient, without the appearance of the proof itself, and that such a recital, that the process was executed by the proper officer, would not be sufficient, unless the return appeared on the process. It is readily admitted as a general rule, that revising courts ought to presume all things correctly done by inferior tribunals, until the contrary appears; but this rule must be subject to some restrictions and limitations. In suits at common law, and cases where it is not necessary that the proof should appear, but it is the duty of the inferior tribunal to decide and record what is proved, and not set down the evidence in detail, this rule must apply. But in suits in chancery, where the evidence itself must appear in detail, the rule is otherwise, as to the merits of the decree. There, no recital that such a matter was established, ought to satisfy the revising court, unless the proof shown is adequate; and we cannot conceive that the recital of the execution of process by the proper officer, ought to be sufficient, if no return appears. It must be remembered, that no fact in a chancery cause, could be more important to the party than this fact of service was in this case; for on it rested the serious consequence that the whole bill is true. The reason then must be equally strong, that the proof of service, where it is not done by a sworn officer, as in this case, ought to appear in the record. A few considerations resulting from the practice in chancery, in this country, established by act of assembly, will strengthen this conclusion. It is true, cases have been cited in the argument, from the English chancery, to show, that testimony that a party had been heard to confess that the process had been served upon him, was held sufficient. But it ought to be recollected that such proof was never held sufficient to decree the truth of the bill, but to authorize process of contempt only, by which the party would generally be certainly apprised that such a suit existed; for in that country an attachment was necessary, and a standing out in contempt, before the bill would be taken as true. Our chancery practice, as it commenced in this country under our statutes, had in it the same requisition of process of contempt. But even then, to avoid advantages which might be taken of the unwary, the legislature abolished this doctrine of the English courts, by enacting that "no process of contempt shall be issued before the subpoena be returned executed by a sworn officer, or affidavit be made of the service thereof." See 1 Dig. L. K. 218. It is true, subsequent acts have permitted bills to be taken as confessed without process of contempt. But surely greater strictness ought not to be required to authorize process of contempt, which might not subject the party to a decree, than is necessary to authorize the court to take the bill as confessed, and decree the matter at once. There ought then to be an affidavit, and that affidavit ought to be so certain, that the affiant would be liable to the penalties of perjury, if it is untrue. The oath ought to be administered by the court, as was held by this court in the case of  Trabue's heirs v. Holt and M'Millan, 2 Bibb 393; and its contents ought to appear in the record here, to sustain the decree, as well as the return of a sworn officer, in the case of decrees by default. *3 This case has circumstances in it which are a good comment on the propriety of the rule. It will be easily seen that upon the original bill as above recited, no decree could be taken against the plaintiff in error, unless an answer was filed. No sum is charged to be due, nor a document exhibited which could evince there was any. Not even the will is shown on which the respective rights of the claimants depend. The opposite party might well rest secure under such a bill, until visited with process of contempt. But instead of this, an amendment is filed in round numbers, not known, nor suggested how they are ascertained, as if intended to give base for a decree, and under the act of assembly which dispenses with subpoenas on amended bills, the amendment is also taken as confessed, and a decree rendered for fifteen thousand dollars. Indeed it may well be doubted whether, as the original bill could warrant no decree without an answer, an amendment ought to be taken as true without new process. But without giving any positive opinion on this point, we conceive that the strictness which we have required in the proof of the service of process is correct, and it not more rigid than is necessary to save the feet of the incautious from snares, which may be laid in their path by ingenious managers of the process of law. The decree must be reversed with costs, and all proceedings set aside, subsequent to filing the amended bill, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings to commence at that point. Ky.App. 1823. Peers v. Carter's Heirs & Devisees 4 Litt. 268, 14 Ky. 268, 1823 WL 1276 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
