(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 363,  21 Ky. 363 (Ky.),  1827 WL 2028 (Ky.)) Yel Flg Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Evans and Wife v. Smith. Jul. 5, 1827. *1 Endorsements of Slander. Evidence. Compromise. Concessions. Character and Credibility. Witnesses. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Libel and Slander 237 k 28 237 Libel and Slander 237I Words and Acts Actionable, and Liability Therefor 237k26 Repetition 237k28 k. By Others in General. Most Cited  Cases One who repeats a slander as coming from others is responsible. Libel and Slander 237 k 60 237 Libel and Slander 237III Justification and Mitigation 237k58 Grounds of Mitigation 237k60 k. Matter in Justification. Most Cited  Cases In mitigation of damages, defendant in a libel or slander suit may show that he did not originate the calumnious charge. Libel and Slander 237 k 111 237 Libel and Slander 237IV Actions 237IV(C) Evidence 237k102 Admissibility 237k111 k. Mitigation. Most Cited  Cases Declarations of the husband, pending an action for the slander of his wife, that he believed the defendant had not originated the slander, but had only repeated it, is admissible in mitigation of damages. Evidence 157 k 213(1) 157 Evidence 157VII Admissions 157VII(A) Nature, Form, and Incidents in General 157k212 Offers of Compromise or Settlement 157k213 In  General 157k213(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The admission by a party of a fact, because it is a fact, made in conversation having in view a compromise and settlement of a controversy, is competent evidence. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement. Evans and wife, brought an action against Smith, for slanderous words spoken of, and concerning the wife, which was tried on the general issue, and a verdict and judgment rendered for the plaintiff, to reverse which, this writ of error is prosecuted. On the trial, the defendant offered to prove, that the male plaintiff had said after the action brought, that he did not believe the defendant originated the report against his wife, and that he had merely related what he had heard; but that it was necessary to sue somebody to stop the report. To this evidence, the plaintiff objected, and it was rejected by the court, on the grounds that this statement was made by the male plaintiff during an attempt to compromise the suit. Testimony offered and rejected. That one who details slander, which he has heard from others endorses it, so as to make himself liable to an action thereby, can not be denied. Endorser of slander is responsible. But it is equally true, that barely stating what is told by others, has not the stamp of malice so strongly imprinted thereon, as original slander, and the circumstances may, therefore, be used in mitigation of damages. This action, it is true, was brought for the slander against the wife; but her husband is united in the action, and is entitled to the damages recovered, and the expressions offered in evidence, as used by him, although they did not tend to shew that the defendant was not guilty, yet they did conduce to shew, that he did not view the slander to be of such aggravated character, as original slander would have been, and therefore, the evidence was proper to have such weight, as the jury might think it entitled to, in lessening the damages to be assessed by them. *2 Declarations of the husband, made pending an action for the slander of his wife, that he believed defendant had not originated the slander, but had only repeated the reports, is admissible in mitigation of damages. The question remains, ought these admissions to have been rejected because they were used pending a compromise? We think not. Offers of sums, prices or payments, made during an attempt to compromise, if not accepted, are not obligatory upon the party making them, and can not be given in evidence against him, as proving his liability, or fixing its amount, because he may make what offers he pleases, for the purposes of buying his peace, without being prejudiced thereby; but if a party pending a negotiation for settling the suit, shall acknowledge or admit facts to exist touching the controversy, we are aware of no rule which excludes such admissions as not good evidence against him. This distinction between the offers of terms pending such a treaty, and the admission and acknowledgement of the existence of facts, seems not to have been sufficiently attended to by the court below in deciding this question. For the admission offered, was certainly an acknowledgment of the existence of facts proper to be proved on the trial. Statements of facts made in a negotiation for compromise, are evidence; offers of certain terms of settlement are not. As the cause is to be opened for this error, we will notice another, committed against the defendant, which may again occur, on a future trial of the cause. The counsel for plaintiff asked a witness, the following question: Is not the reputation of a female witness, (naming her), introduced for the defendant, that of an unchaste woman? Has she not lived with a certain man as his wife, four or five years, without having been married to him? This question was objected to by defendant's counsel, but the court permitted it to be asked and answered. It may be proved against the credit of a witness, that she has the reputation of an unchaste woman, but not that she does in fact live in a state of concubinage. It is decided, that the general moral character of a witness, may be proved either to corroborate or discredit him; but it is as clearly settled that to discredit a witness, a party can not prove particular instances of moral turpitude, and the latter part of this question was evidently an attempt to do so, and therefore, ought to have been excluded by the court. The judgment, must therefore, be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Breck, for plaintiff; Turner, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Evans v. Smith 5 T.B.Mon. 363, 21 Ky. 363, 1827 WL 2028 (Ky.), 17 Am.Dec. 74 END OF DOCUMENT
