(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 184,  10 Ky. 184 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1193 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bank of Kentucky v. Sanders & Wier. Dec. 15, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 17 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(A) Form and Contents of Bills of Exchange, Drafts, Checks, and Orders 56k17 k. Orders Payable on Contingency or Out of Particular  Fund. Most Cited Cases If the fund described in a bill is certain, and is mentioned only as a means by which the drawee is to be indemnified, the bill is good. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Owsley. James Taylor, district pay-master of the United States during the late war, drew sundry drafts on army bills on the pay-master of the United States' army, of which the following is a correct specimen, to-wit: "Newport, Kentucky, Sept. 2, 1814. Exchange for $4,709. Sir--After ten days sight of this my third of exchange, (first and second of the same tenor and date unpaid) please to pay to lieutenant William D. Haydon, pay-master of the 28th regiment United States' infantry, or order, four thousand seven hundred and nine dollars, on account of the subsistence of the army of the United States for the year 1814. For this sum I am to be charged and held account able, as per advice of equal date with this. I am, respectfully, sir, most obt. JAMES TAYLOR, D. P. Master. Robert Brent, Esq. Pay master U. S. Army, Washington City." These bills were sold by Sanders, one of the appellees, to the Bank of Kentucky, and endorsed by him. They were dishonored and returned. A controversy then arose between Sanders and the bank, which gave rise to this suit, whether these were bills on which the endorsers was bound to pay ten per cent. damages, on the event of their being dishonored, according to the act of assembly then in force? On this question depends the judgment of the court below. If this be a bill of exchange, subjecting the endorser to the per cent. on its being protested, then the judgment of the court below must be reversed. On the contrary, if it is not such bill, the judgment must be affirmed. It is contended, on the part of the appellee, that it is evident, from the face of this bill, that it is drawn by one agent of government on another in favor of a third, that it evidences a contract for government, and that the individuals concerned were not bound, and for this cause the bill is not within the statute. It is a general principle, that when an individual signs a contract, and adds a title or some addition to his name, he is nevertheless individually bound. To this rule, the case of an officer of government is an exception. As the government can speak only by her officers, their contracts, officially signed by the officer, is considered as obligatory on government alone. Such is the principle of the cases of  Hodgson v. Dexter, 1 Cranch, 345, and Syner v. Aylett, 1 Call, 105,  Tutt v. Lewis, 3 Call, 233. But we apprehend these cases turn upon the intention of the parties contracting, and the official signature of the parties is used as evidence of that intention. On the contrary, if an intention is manifest of another nature, the individual may bind himself notwithstanding. Had the drawer in this instance, by a paper not negotiable, given an authority to a subordinate agent of government to draw its funds from a third, no doubt the rule would apply, and each party to the paper must be presumed to have trusted the government. But when he drew the instrument in a negotiable form, and attached to it all the requisites of a bill of exchange, as well as the name, it is evident that he intended to authorize the payee to negotiate it, and thereby place it in the channels of commerce among individuals. Having done so, although the bill is drawn on the funds of government, yet it is evident that the bill was to go on the individual credit of the drawer, and its negotiable character is conclusive of that intention, as well as the fact, that it was actually negotiated. But it may be said that this is not a bill because it is payable out of a particular fund, to-wit, "on account of the subsistence of the army." To this it may be answered, that if a bill is made payable out of a particular fund, yet if that fund is mentioned as barely directory to the drawee, out of what funds he is to reimburse himself, and the fund itself is certain, and not so doubtful as to render it morally uncertain, when the bill is to be paid, if ever, it is still a good bill within the custom of merchants. Chitty on bills, 33, 34; 2 Strange, 762; Ld. Raym, 1545. The mention of the fund in this instance is a mere direction to the drawee out of what fund it is to be taken, and the appropriations for the subsistence of the army is a fund sufficiently certain to warrant the belief of its payment. We are therefore of opinion that the bill aforesaid is a bill embraced by the act, and that the drawee and endorsers would be liable to ten per cent. damages on its being protested. *2 In individual contracts, the subscriber is bound personally though he may annex some addition or title to his signature; but this rule does not hold with regard to the officers of the government. But if the officer of government evidences an intention to subject himself, and by making bills of exchange on the funds of the government, he and the endorsers are liable. A bill of exchange must not be made payable out of a particular fund, but if the fund is certain, and is described only as a means by which the drawee is to be indemnified, the bill is good. The judgment of the court below must therefore be reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter judgment in the court below for the appellants in pursuance to the agreed case. Hardin, for plaintiff; Haggin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1820. Bank of Kentucky v. Sanders 3 A.K.Marsh. 184, 10 Ky. 184, 1820 WL 1193 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 149 END OF DOCUMENT
