(Cite as: 5 Litt. 349,  15 Ky. 349 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1453 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Scott, Trotter & Tilford v. Coleman. Jun. 14, 1824. *1 FROM THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. WILLIAM L. KELLY SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 13 2 Abatement and Revival 2II Another Action Pending 2k10 Action in Different Jurisdiction 2k13 k. Court of Different State or Country. Most Cited  Cases Attachment pending in a foreign state furnishes good grounds for a plea in abatement. Assignments 38 k 73 38 Assignments 38IV Operation and Effect 38k73 k. Property or Interest Transferred. Most Cited Cases A general assignment of all estate, etc., as at large, and fully explained by a schedule thereof annexed, is restricted, and conveys nothing more than is contained in the schedule. Assignments 38 k 135 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k133 Evidence 38k135 k. Admissibility in General. Most Cited  Cases Acknowledgment of an assignor in relation to a claim, before he transfers it, may be given in evidence in a controversy between the assignee and the party against whom the claim existed. Debtor and Creditor 117T k 3 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk1 Assignments for Benefit of Creditors 117Tk3 k. Construction and Operation. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 39k181  Assignments for Benefit of Creditors) A general assignment of all real and personal property, in which reference is made to the schedule annexed thereto, conveys nothing except what is contained in the schedule. Evidence 157 k 234 157 Evidence 157VII Admissions 157VII(C) By Grantors, Former Owners, or Privies 157k234 k. Assignors of Rights in Action in General. Most  Cited Cases Where, in a controversy between an assignee and parties against whom a claim sued on existed, defendants show by a judgment of another state that the demand had been recovered of them in an attachment, acknowledgments by the assignor, before he transferred such claim, that it had been rightfully paid by defendants in such attachment suit, are admissible in evidence. Garnishment 189 k 231 189 Garnishment 189IX Operation and Effect of Garnishment, Judgment, or Payment 189k229 Effect of Garnishment as Between Defendant and Garnishee 189k231 k. Other Actions and Proceedings Against Garnishee.  Most Cited Cases A trustee process pending in a foreign state may be pleaded in abatement of an action for the same cause. Garnishment 189 k 237 189 Garnishment 189IX Operation and Effect of Garnishment, Judgment, or Payment 189k234 Effect of Judgment Against Garnishee and Payment or Other Satisfaction Thereof 189k237 k. Foreign Judgment. Most Cited Cases Defendants in assumpsit should be discharged, on showing by the records of a sister state that the debt sued for had been recovered of them by a foreign attachment. Garnishment 189 k 237 189 Garnishment 189IX Operation and Effect of Garnishment, Judgment, or Payment 189k234 Effect of Judgment Against Garnishee and Payment or Other Satisfaction Thereof 189k237 k. Foreign Judgment. Most Cited Cases A garnishee, who pays a judgment against him without execution, will be protected, in the absence of any showing that the judgment was not conclusive under the laws of the state where rendered, until execution was issued. HAGGIN and BARRY for appellant; CRITTENDEN and WICKLIFFE for appellee. (The CHIEF JUSTICE did not sit in this case.) OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 To an action of assumpsit brought in the name of James Coleman, the surviving partner of Robert Megowan & Co. the appellants pleaded non-assumpsit, with leave to give special matter in evidence. On the trial, the appellants gave in evidence, three records from the courts in the state of Pennsylvania, in which the demand due from them to Robert Megowan & Co. had been attached by foreign attachments in that state. The firm of the appellants had two houses, one in this state, where two of the partners resided, and one in the state of Pennsylvania, where the remaining part ner resided, at which latter house, the demands set up by the appellee were contracted. On the failure of the house of Robert Megowan & Co. in this state, these attachments had issued against the house of the appellants there, two of them by creditors resident there, and one of them by George Trotter, one of the firm of the appellants, against the house of himself and partners in Philadelphia. In one of these records, there is a final judgment, to wit, that in which Trotter himself is plaintiff; in another there is a judgment nisi; and in the third, there is no judgment. It was admitted on this trial, that the appellants, at their house in Philadelphia, had paid these judgments to the several plaintiffs therein, and the question arose, whether the appellants were entitled to a credit for the amount so paid in this action. The court below decided, that as there were no executions issued on said attachments, and the appellants had paid them without such executions, the payment could not avail them as a bar in this action; while the appellants insisted that the judgments alone were a sufficient authority for such payment, and that as the laws of the state of Pennsylvania were not produced, in their absence, the judgments must be taken as prima facie good authority, and as valid until impeached; and these are the questions presented for our consideration. In assumpsit, the defendants discharged, upon showing by the records of another state, that the demand had been recovered of them by a foreign attachment in that state. That the demands were paid upon judgments without execution, is no objection to the justice of the claim, unless the party objecting shows that the judgments were not conclusive, or that they could not bind, until execution was completed. It is a general rule of common law, that process must be executed, or the judgment rendered will be invalid. This rule is subject to exceptions, by statutory or local regulations, in every country. It must be granted to be a general principle of common law, that process must be executed or the judgment rendered must be invalid, and that naming a person and styling him a party in the writ or pleadings, alone, without giving notice of the proceeding, cannot bind or affect his interest. This rule, is however, made subject to many exceptions by statutory or local regulations, in almost every country, and perhaps it is necessary for the ends of justice and the advancement of commerce, that such particular exceptions should exist. They generally authorize proceedings in rem, or by constructive service of process. Such appears to be the foreign attachment in England by the custom of London; such the laws of several of the American states; and such is our proceeding by a domestic attachment in case of absconding debtors, and of our proceeding in chancery against absent defendants. As the different governments of America may and do institute such proceedings, it is competent for them to make judgments rendered therein, conditionally binding only, or binding at a certain state of the proceedings or at a certain time, or conclusively final, or incontestable. *3 By the constitution of the United States, judgments of any of the states are entitled to full faith and credit in every state; but not greater credit or more conclusive effect, when tendered as evidence in another state, than they are entitled to in the state where they are rendered. The constitution of the United States makes all judgments of any state evidence, and entitled to full faith and credit in every state; but it is settled by this court, in the case of  Rogers v. Coleman and ux, Hard. 413, that this clause does not require greater faith and credit, or a more conclusive effect to be given to judgments or decrees, when tendered as evidence in another state, than they are entitled to in the state where they are rendered. To what credit they are entitled at home, may then, be often a subject of inquiry, when they are offered abroad; and, of course, the inquiry arises, must he who offers them, prove that they are binding where they are rendered, or he who opposes them, show that they have but a partial effect? If the former is adopted, it would render the constitutional rule of but little effect; for the judgment or decree produced, could prove nothing until its force at home was proved, as a matter of fact and law. We therefore, conceive the general rule to be, that when the judgment or decree of a sister state is produced, rendered by one of its tribunals, we must presume that tribunal had jurisdiction and authority, and that the act done in pursuance of that authority, does conclude and bind the parties named therein; and as to impeaching its full credit, the onus probandi lies on him who resists it. That it was competent for the appellee to show in this case, that these judgments were not conclusive, or that they could not bind, until execution was completed, we have no doubt; but we are also satisfied, that it lay on him to do so, by proceeding or proving the law by which these proceedings were created. When a judgment of a sister state is produced, it will be presumed that that tribunal had jurisdiction of the cause, and that the act concludes the parties; if it is impeached, the onus probandilies on him who resists it. What the laws of othe?? states are, must?? be proved as other facts. The general rule is, that all payments in satisfaction of a judgment, are good without execution. Attachments pending, furnish good grounds for a plea in abatement. We admit the authorities cited at bar, and that they conclusively show that payment in obedience to a foreign attachment in England, could not be pleaded in bar to an action for the demand attached, unless such payment was made in obedience to execution also, and the reason seems to be, that after the emanation of execution, the plaintiff, before he completed it, was bound to give pledges to his original debtor to pay him the money, if he should appear in a certain time, and disprove the debt. As this engagement was for the benfit of the original debtor, it is but reasonable to compel his debtor to stand out until such security is given, or to deprive him of the bar. Such appears to have been the decision of the supreme court of New York, with regard to an attachment in the state of Maryland.  5 John. Rep. 101. Such also is the doctrine of chancellor Kent, 4 John. Chan. Rep. 460. The supreme court of Pennsylvania, in Myers v. Urich, 1 Binney 25, has decided the same way with regard to one of her own attachments. But we can not see that the decision applies to the law under which these proceedings were had and from the reports and elementary writers of that state, it seems they have more laws than one on the subject of attachments. If the appellee shall produce a law which suits these proceedings, and which shows that they are not conclusive without execution, we may then be able to fix a construction thereon, which shall give these judgments no more weight than that for which he contends, or to adopt the decision of the courts of that state in his favor. This, however, was not done, and all such laws are and must be introduced into our courts of original jurisdiction, as facts. Until this is done, that court ought to have taken these judgments as binding, and to have followed the general rule, that a payment in satisfaction of such judgment, is good, without execution, and that it is never necessary for a person against whom a judgment is rendered, to wait for an execution; but that it is his duty to act to the contrary. We, therefore, conceive that the judgments produced were evidence of an authority to the courts to Pennsylvania so to proceed, and that in the absence of the laws of Pennsylvania, or any evidence impeaching their validity, without execution, the court below erred in attaching to these judgments no greater credence than what it did. *4 A right reserved to give special matter in evidence, can not be construed as including anything more than what might have been specially pleaded in bar. A general transfer of all estate, real, personal and mixed, as at large and fully explained by a schedule thereof annexed, is restricted, and conveys nothing except what is contained in the transfer. Acknowledgements of an assignor, in relation to a claim, before he transfers it, may be given in evidence in a controversy between the assignee and the party against whom the claim existed. We would, however, not be understood as applying this to the exemplication of a record in which there is no judgment. There the court has yet done no act, or exercised no authority, deciding upon or concluding the rights of parties, or showing that the attaching creditors, acquired any lien upon the debt, on the service of the attachment; and, of course, this reasoning can not apply. It is true, that attachments pending, have uniformly been held to furnish a good plea in abatement; but the appellants did not plead, until the hour of pleading in abatement was over, and then offered a plea to the merits; therefore, they can not be permitted to abate the action pro tanto. It is true that a right is reserved to give special matter in evidence; but that can not be construed as including any thing more than what might have been specially pleaded in bar. There is another point of considerable importance made in the progress of the cause. Evidence was given conducing to show that the appellee, or his trustee, had notice of the pendency of these attachments, and attempted to employ counsel to defend them, and some time afterwards, acknowledged that this money, for which this suit was now brought, was paid in Philadelphia rightfully, or language to that effect, and reflected upon his trustee or assignees, hereinafter named, for proceeding to recover this demand. To ward off the effects of these acknowledgements, the appellee's counsel showed a deed of trust in which the appellant had conveyed his estate to William S. Dallam, and an assignment of this debt by Dallam, as trustee, to Thomas H. Pindell, who afterwards assigned it to Richard Pindell, for whose use this suit was prosecuted. Afterwards, the appellee himself assigned the same debt to Pindell, and confirmed the assignment of Dallam, his trustee; but this was after his acknowledgements aforesaid. The counsel for the appellants moved the court to instruct the jury: First, that the deed of trust from Coleman and Megowan to Dallam, was fraudulent and void as relates to the creditors of the former; and secondly that if the jury believed that the appellants paid the amount of the demand in suit, to the creditors of the appellee, and that he, as surviving partner, after the death of his partner, acknowledged and approved the payment, and enjoyed the benefit thereof, the law was for the appellants. As to the first of these instructions, the court decided that the appellants were not in a situation to ask it. The second the court seemed to admit to be correct, if the appellee had not transferred the demand, leaving the inference that the transfers aforesaid destroyed the effect of said acknowledgments. *5 We shall consider this last instruction first; for there is no evidence of a transfer of the debt, except those produced by the appellant, and that made by Coleman was after his acknowledgments. If, then, the deed of trust did not pass the debt in question to Dallam, it is clear, that Dallam could transfer no right to Pindell; and it is equally clear, that if the deed does not transfer the debt, then the appellants had no concern with the deed, and could not ask an instruction about its fraudulent qualities and the court decided the first point right. Whether the deed does or does not transfer this debt depends upon its terms. They are very comprehensive, and purport to pass "all the estate, real, personal and mixed, to which they, (the granters) were entitled, either in law or equity, within this state, the state of Ohio, at New Orleans or elsewhere, whether held jointly, severally, or in common; but these expressions immediately follow and limit its operation--"the situation, quantity, quality, amount and species of which said estate is more at large and fully explained, by a schedule thereof, annexed to this indenture, and intended to be recorded therewith." To the schedule, then, we must look for what is or is not embraced in the deed, and we do not conceive that anything more is included than what the schedule contains. In the schedule, this debt is not embraced, and of course, it was not conveyed by the deed, and Dallam had no authority to transfer the demand; nor could he confer any title from the deed, and the first valid transfer is that by Coleman, after the acknowledgements proved. It then follows that the court ought to have given the last instruction positively, and could not have erred in declining to give the first, although the deed may be in law fraudulent. It is true there is an authority in the deed to collect debts, and a power to act as attorney for the grantors; but these debts are the debts in the schedule, if any, and the power granted was over the estate enumerated in the same instrument, and no other. We will return and notice an exception to one of the attachment records, which appears to have been relied on. It was insisted that Trotter could not be plaintiff in the attachment, and also defendant. He was not so properly a defendant as garnishee. This may furnish grounds for an inference that the attachment was collusive; but we cannot say that the laws of Pennsylvania forbid it, or look into the regularity of the judgments of that state. Of course, it is not necessary to inquire, whether such proceedings, by parties in such an attitude, can be tolerated here. The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be reversed, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1824. Scott v. Coleman 5 Litt. 349, 15 Ky. 349, 1824 WL 1453 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 71 END OF DOCUMENT
