(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 100,  19 Ky. 100 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1205 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bush's Representatives v. White and Wife. Nov. 22, 1825. *1 Guardian and Ward. Slaves. Heirs. Executors. Ordinance of Congress. N. W. Territory. Practice. Pleading in Chancery. Exceptions. Commissioners' Reports. ERROR TO THE CLARKE CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Slaves 356 k 20 356 Slaves 356k20 k. Right to Freedom. Most Cited Cases Where the owner of a slave removed with him into the territory northwest of the Ohio river, it was held that he lost all title to the slave, as slavery there was forbidden by act of congress. Detinue 126 k 8 126 Detinue 126k8 k. Defenses. Most Cited Cases The fact that alleged slaves, for the recovery of which detinue is brought, are freedmen, is a good defense to the action. Detinue 126 k 19 126 Detinue 126k19 k. Damages. Most Cited Cases In detinue, where a defendant had possession at any time, he is liable for damages for detention up to the time of trial, though the property had passed out of his possession before suit was brought. Equity 150 k 427(1) 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k427 Conformity to Pleadings, Proofs, and Findings 150k427(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases In a suit for slaves, where it appears that the persons claimed as slaves are free, the bill must be dismissed, though the fact is not alleged in the pleadings, and defendants claim them as slaves. Guardian and Ward 196 k 43 196 Guardian and Ward 196III Custody and Care of Ward's Person and Estate 196k40 Sale 196k43 k. Personal Property. Most Cited Cases Where a person has assumed to act as guardian and administrator without legal authority, he is chargeable with the hire of a slave belonging to his ward's estate, which he improperly sold. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Joel White and wife filed their bill against the administrator and heirs of William Bush, charging, that in the year 1793, Richard Stites married Polly Bush, one of said William Bush's daughters, and lived with her about a year, and abandoned her, and afterwards died, and that said Polly afterwards married Benjamin Hieronymous, and that Mrs. White is the only issue of the first marriage; that shortly after the marriage of Stites, said William Bush gave his said daughter Polly a negro boy named Spencer, and a negro girl called Betty, and her husband accordingly held them in possession till the separation, then he sold Spencer, and said Polly returned to her father's house with Betty, where the said William Bush assumed to be guardian of Mrs. White till her marriage, and kept the said Betty and her children since born, now two in number, and that the slaves were given by him to some of his other children, or divided among them, in the distribution of his estate, which had taken place, and that no administrator was ever appointed on the estate of said Richard Stites, except so far as said William Bush acted as such in his own wrong. The bill prays an account to be taken, both of the personal estate of said Stites, and of the hire of the slaves, and that the slaves may be delivered over with their hire. *2 Allegations of the bill. The repesentatives of William Bush admit the relationship between the parties; deny that said slaves were distributed with the rest of Bush's estate, or brought into hotchpot at the time; but were given long before the death of said Bush to Thomas T. Bush, one of his sons-in-law, who had sold one of them to another son-in-law, and another to a son, and still held the third himself; and they flatly deny the gift of Betty to Stites or his wife, and on this point the controversy chiefly rests, as to matter of fact. Answer of Bush's repr's. The court below decreed in favor of the complainants, both as to the slaves and their hire, it turning out in proof, that Stites had no personal estate ever in the hands of William Bush, except one horse of little value, which was left at said William Bush's, at the time Stites abandoned his wife, where the said horse staid till he died. From this decree, the administrator and heirs of said William Bush have appealed to this court. Decree of the circuit court. Without reciting the details of the testimony which satisfies our minds upon the subject, suffice it to say that we concur with the court below, that the evidence is sufficient to establish the gift to, and possession of, the slave in Stites, during his marriage with the daughter of said Bush, and the court below did not err in deciding in favor of the complainants in this particular. It appeared that Mrs. White lived with her grandfather, where the slave was, for about eleven years and afterwards she went to live with Thomas T. Bush, who had married her aunt, to whom, also, the slaves were given at the same time. Where the personal services of an infant, in the family of her assumed guardian, are equal to her maintenance, she shall not be charged. In the account for hire, the court directed a deduction to be made for the maintenance of Mrs. White, and the raising of the young slaves. The commissioners accordingly decided, that the hire of the slaves was not more than adequate to defray the expense of raising Mrs. White, during her stay with her grandfather, and, therefore, for that period, reported no hire against his estate. But after Mrs. White came to the house of Thomas T. Bush, she being older and more capable of defraying the price of her maintenance by her labor, and it being proved to them, that on her marriage, said T. T. Bush acknowledged that she had been so good a girl that he felt himself bound to do something for her, they allowed nothing for her maintenance, but charged him with the hire, as well as the other holders of the slaves, and this is strongly objected to. We see no impropriety in this allowance. She ought, at that age, to have been able, by her services, to render compensation for her maintenance, and by the acknowledgments of Thomas T. Bush, it is presumable she did so. Of course, according to the principles recognized by this court in the case of  Henning v. Conner, 2 Bibb 188, no allowance for her maintenance ought to have been made. *3 The court, however, decreed the hire allowed for the slaves after they left the possession of William Bush, against his estate generally, and indeed against all the defendants, notwithstanding the slaves were then held, and the hire found due for the time they were held, by Thomas T. Bush and his vendees, it is supposed, relying on the principle that the hire must ultimately come out of the estate of William Bush, because he had given away the slaves, when he ought to have kept them for Mrs. White, his granddaughter. This part of the decree is objected to as erroneous. Representatives of an assumed guardian, here the grandfather, who disposed of the slaves of the ward, shall account for their hire up to the day of their recovery. Whether, under the gift made of the slaves to Thomas T. Bush, he, the said Thomas, could have recourse on William Bush's estate for the value of the slave, when recovered by another claimant, and also for the hire, which might be recovered of him by the adverse claimant, may be somewhat problematical, and might essentially rest upon the nature and purpose of that gift; and whether the said Thomas received the slaves innocently, not supposing that, by the reception of them, he would be deluded into a suit, a recovery of the slave, and an account for the hire; or whether he accepted her, knowing of the claim and running the risque. This would be better tried in an issue made up between the said Thomas, and the personal representative of the said William Bush's estate; and although he, as well as the personal representatives of William Bush, are parties to this suit, yet as they are co-defendants only, uniting in a contest against the adverse claimants, and their attention is not called to the extent of the liability of William Bush's estate, to said Thomas, for the hire or the value, if this question rested exclusively upon the liability of the estate of William Bush to account to the said Thomas, for the hire or value, we should hesitate to sanction this part of the decree. But the question does not rest on this point. The estate of William Bush might not be bound to make good the hire to Thomas T. Bush, and yet the complainants may have a clear right to make the estate responsible for that hire. It is clear that detinue may be supported against one who has held the slave of another, but does not hold the slave when the suit is commenced; for possession in the defendant at the commencement of the suit, is not necessary in such case, and if the defendant has parted with the slave which does not belong to him, especially knowingly, as William Bush did in this case, he is, unquestionably, liable to the true owner for all the hire to the time of the judgment, in an action at law. That the grandfather in such case, made a gift of the slaves to his son, and he had their use, and might not be accountable to his father's representatives, is not material to their liability.____ These are rules of law followed by equity.______ --In detinue, where defendant had possession at any time, he is liable for the thing, and hire up to the time of trial. *4 Equity, then, which follows the law, can not refuse to charge the estate of William Bush with the hire. This court has decided that an administrator, who had sold a slave improperly, was not only liable for the value, but also the hire, till the time of recovery. See Henning v. Conner, before cited. It can not then be wrong in this instance, to charge the estate of William Bush with the hire, when he assumed, without legal authority, the office of an administrator, guardian and trustee of the estate of Stites, and yet with his eyes open, disposed of the estate improperly. This part of the decree is, therefore, not thought to be erroneous, especially as this sum for hire is directed to be levied on the administrator and heirs, in their representative character. There is one other point in the cause which cuts a considerable figure, and wears a more serious aspect, and it was made after the interlocutory decree, and in a petition to file an amended answer, and for a re-hearing. It is clearly proved, and not contradicted, that when Stites got the slave, he moved to, and remained in the then territory northwest of the river Ohio, now the state of Ohio, where the slave Betty, since the mother of the other slaves, remained with him until the time he abandoned his wife. Whether the slave was first taken there by Stites, or in his care, or was taken by his father first, under the hiring of William Bush, and then, after the time of hiring was out, delivered over to Richard Stites, the testimony is not agreed. And it is not material which was the fact; for in either case the slave went to reside there with the consent of both Richard Stites and William Bush, one of whom must, at that time, have been her owner. This residence in the now State of Ohio, being before it was a State, and while it was under the ordinance of Congress which forbade slavery there, certainly destroyed all title to Betty, let her belong to whom she would, according to the principles settled by this court, in the case of Rankin v. Lydia, 2 Marsh, 467. Ordinance of Congress for the government of the N. W. Territory, liberated all slaves removed and seteled there by their owners. That ordinance was paramount to the territorial laws, and restrained the legislative power there, as effectually as a constitution does, in an organized State. It was a public act of the Legislature of the Union, and a part of the supreme law of the land, and, as such, this court is as much bound to take notice of it, as it can be of any other law. This court takes judicial notice of that ordinance, as the supreme law, and that acts of the territorial government contrary to it, were void. We attach not much importance to the petition for a re-hearing on this point. It came late, praying leave to suggest this fact in an amended answer, when the same matter had been long known in the cause, and it had but one supplemental fact in it, as an apology for presenting the petition at that late hour, and that was, that one of the slaves had commenced an action to assert and establish his freedom. It is not necessary to determine whether this fact was sufficient to have justified the granting of the petition, until we ascertain whether there was not enough in the cause before that, to require a notice of the matter by this court. The report for hire was excepted to, on the ground, that no hire ought to be allowed while the negroes were free, and this was sufficient to bring the point to the notice of the court, if the pleadings, as they stood, required no such notice to be taken. *5 In a suit by the ward, against the representatives of the guardian for slaves and their hire, an exception to an allowance for hire in the commissioner's report on the ground the persons claimed as slaves were free, is insufficient to put the fact in issue. It is now insisted for the appellees, that the pleadings do not allege this matter, and, therefore, the court can not notice it, and that if the pleadings had put it in issue, and the attention of the parties had been called to it, the testimony might have borne a different aspect. This argument, though specious, is not satisfactory. The complainants were bound to make out their title in proof, and if while attempting to do this, and in destroying the title of their adversaries, they showed that they themselves had no title, was not the court bound to notice it, although the pleadings did not allege it? Here the difficulty arises in giving the complainant a decree for property, when the proof shows right in another and not in himself. In a suit for slaves, if it be proved, whether alleged or not, that the persons in contest are free, the claimant fails. But the pleadings in this case are not silent. It is true, the answer does not contend that the slaves belong to neither of the parties, but to themselves; but some of the answers do suggest the residence in Ohio. But to put the matter beyond doubt, the bill, after stating the title and possession of Richard Stites, during his cohabitation with his wife, declares, that at the time of his death, he resided in the northwestern territory, and out of the limits of this State, and that "no part of his estate was in this State at the time of his death." It then must follow, that the slaves were in the territory also. These facts appearing in the pleadings, being supported by proof, show title out of the complainants in the property for which they sue, and are conclusive against their right to recover. If a fact be stated in a bill, which shows that the persons claimed as slaves are free, it will be fatal, tho' defendants also claim them as their property. It is insisted that the complainants ought to recover the hire, ad interim, although the slaves may not be theirs at this time, if they have shown that Stites once had title; because the slaves themselves can recover only nominal damages for their detention in slavery. If the premises be admitted, the conclusion does not follow; for if it be conceded that these slaves can not recover their hire, it does not result that any other person may, and if the defendants can not in conscience retain it, everybody has a right to it. If the persons sued for, as slaves are proved to be free, and the suit fails, as to them, there can be no hire recovered. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill with costs. Crittenden for appellants; Hanson and Taul for appellees. Ky.App. 1825. Bush's Representatives v. White 3 T.B.Mon. 100, 19 Ky. 100, 1825 WL 1205 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
