(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 557,  10 Ky. 557 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1170 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Philemon Waters v. William Brown. Jun. 13, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE WASHINGTON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Assault and Battery 37 k 12 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(A) Acts Constituting Assault or Battery and Liability Therefor 37k8 Defenses 37k12 k. Provocation. Most Cited  Cases Former threats or insults will not justify a later assault and battery. Assault and Battery 37 k 34 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(B) Actions 37k25 Evidence 37k34 k. Mitigation of damages. Most Cited  Cases Evidence of defendant's state of mind at the time of the assault, caused by recent provocation, is admissible to defeat the recovery of exemplary damages, but such evidence cannot be considered to reduce compensatory damages. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 66 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak66 k. Proceedings and order. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k39  Depositions) Though a dedimus for taking the deposition of a nonresident be issued in blank, it is yet good if it appears that the deposition was really taken before justices of the peace. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 68 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak68 k. Notice of taking. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k56(6)  Depositions) Oral evidence is admissible to show that depositions were taken according to notice. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 74 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak74 k. Making and requisites of deposition, return  or certificate. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 122k75  Depositions) Since a dedimus for taking the deposition of a nonresident, though issued in blank, is yet admissible to be read if it appear that it was properly taken before magistrates authorized to take the same, oral evidence is admissible to show that it was taken according to notice. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of trespass, assault, battery and wounding, brought by the appellee against the appellant. The declaration contains a count for presenting and firing a gun, and wounding the appellee in the right hand. On the trial the appellant objected to the appellee's reading in evidence, a deposition taken in Illinois, because the dedimus potestatem annexed to the deposition was blank, as to the names of the justices before whom the deposition was taken, and because the justices had not certified that the deposition was taken at the place designated by the notice. The appellee proved, by a witness present at taking the deposition, that it was taken at the proper place. The court below admitted the deposition, and the appellant excepted. Some of the acts of assembly, regulating the mode of taking depositions where the attendance of witnesses can not be procured, direct a dedimus potestatem to issue, on motion, to certain persons by name. If such a dedimus should fail to state the names, as the commissioners are individually empowered, there might be some plausibility in contending against the depositions, on account of the blank. But other acts allow such commission to issue to certain officers as such, among which are justices of the peace. The blank in such a dedimus, must be wholly immaterial if it is executed by such officers. The justices have certified, in this instance, that they are justices of the peace, and by express provision such certificate is evidence of their being such. The individual could not then be necessary. Mobley v. Hamit, 1 Marsh. 590. *2 Though a dedimus for taking the deposition of a nonresident be issued in blank, it is yet good if it appears the deposition was really taken before justices of the peace. As to the admissibility of the proof, to shew where the deposition was taken, we see no objections to it. If the justices had certified the place, it would have been evidence that the notice was complied with. But this is not the only evidence to which the party resort. Any competent proof ought in such case to be allowed. Oral evidence is admissible to shew the deposition was taken according to notice. It appeared on the trial that the appellant had obtained against the appellee, a warrant of arrest, usually styled a peace warrant, and had placed it in the hands of the sheriff, who called upon the appellant and stated that he could not find the appellee, and requested the appellant to go along, and shew the appellee, in order that the warrant might be executed. The appellant did so, and took his gun along with him, stating to the sheriff that the appellant would resist being taken, and that he carried a pistol and would be very apt to fire upon them. They found the appellee engaged at labor, with an axe, and when he discovered the sheriff he approached near to him holding the axe in a menacing attitude, and ordered the sheriff to proceed no further. The appellant then spoke to the sheriff and required him to execute his office. The appellee then discovering, by the voice of the appellant, that the appellant was near in a direction different from that in which the sheriff stood, drew out a pistol and each presented their arms. Here is some contrariety in the proof; some of the witnesses conceiving that the appellant, and others that the appellee presented first--and great stress seems to have been laid on this inquiry during the trial, as the most important fact involved in the issues. After the parties had stood some moments in this attitude, endeavoring to get their respective pieces to bear on each other, the appellant fired and wounded the right hand of the appellee, who immediate changed his pistol to the other hand and advanced up to the appellant, but his pistol missed fire. The appellant then introduced witnesses to prove that the appellee, both before and after the emanation of the peace warrant, had threatened his, the appellant's life, and particularly after the warrant had issued, he had stated that he never would be taken by the officer, but that he would first kill the officer, and that he would, at all events, kill the appellant, if he went to hell for it. The court excluded this evidence as incompetent to shew the intention, with which either the appellant or appellee had acted on the occasion, or in any manner permissible in mitigation of damages. Of the intention of the appellee thus to resist the process, the appellant seems to have been in some measure apprised. It has been decided by this court, in the case of  Rochester v. Anderson, 1 Bibb, 428, as well as in a subsequent case, that the defendant, in an action of assault and battery, could not mitigate the damages by shewing a previous insult or offence given him by the sheriff on a former occasion. To this opinion we still adhere. But the reason of that rule is this; a defendant shall not shew that his ruder passions were excited by a previous offence, and then rely on these passions as one of the infirmities of his nature to alleviate his case, after sufficient time had elapsed to allow these passions to cool and subside, in a prudent, orderly citizen, of sound reflection. In this case, however, the evidence offered, was not intended for such purpose. *3 Though former threats or insults will not palliate a latter assault and battery, yet if the injury is inflicted in the attempt to prevent the execution of those threats, defendant may produce those former threats in mitigation of damages, as conducing to shew the motives which influenced the plaintiff's conduct. The sayings and threats of the appellee related to the very acts which he attempted when he received his would, and conduces strongly to explain the acts of each party and the motives with which each acted in the rencounter. It tends to shew that the appellant was in danger and was apprised of it, and intended to avoid it by anticipating the injury. There is a difference then between the evidence now offered and that which relies on previous offences as provocation only. This affray was carried on with unusual weapons, and the appellee was deliberately resisting the law, out of ill will to his adversary. If the appellee could have shewn that the appellant had walked deliberate from his house, in seach of the appellee, with his gun, and had expressed an intention of shooting him, and had done so, the evidence would have tended to aggravate the damages, and would have been admissible for that purpose. On the contrary, it was competent for the appellant to shew, that he had gone at the request of the sheriff, instead of being stimulated by revenge, and the circumstance of the appellant's carrying a pistol, and avowing his intention of using it, for the purposes of death, conduced to mitigate and explain the act of the appellee, in taking his gun with him, and also to shew that self defence was the object, and not the wanton purpose of personal injury. In like manner, if the appellee, by drawing his pistol, intended to injure, instead of self defence purely, it would extenuate the act of the appellant in avoiding the injury by anticipating the blow, and the appellant ought to be permitted to shew that intention. It is true, that the appellee in this instance acted under circumstances not favorable to his case. He was resisting the authority of the law out of spleen against the party, who had questioned his conduct at law. He could not at the time be under any apprehensions of personal safety, except the arrest of the officer. Although it was his duty to submit to this, yet he presented the axe to the officer, and the pistol to his accuser, as soon as he discovered him. If he did this with a fixed design of killing, his conduct was thereby much aggravated, and the conduct of the appellant in firing too soon to avoid death, was much mitigated; and we know of no evidence better calculated to shew such fixed design, than his solemn declarations with regard to the arrest, which was then about to take place. If the thief, about to steal, or the incendiary, about to apply the torch, should receive personal injury, whereby he was prevented from perpetrating his design, we conceive his declarations that he intended to do the act, which he was about to do, would be admissible to palliate the act of the party inflicting the injury. Thus we conceive that the previous declarations of the appellee, which explained his object in carrying, drawing and presenting his pistol, were admissible, not to be used as mitigating the appellant's case as a previous offence; but as conducing to shew the appellee's illegal design, and also as measurably excusing the appellant in taking his gun, and then using it, when he saw the weapon by which his own death had been predicted. The decision of the court below in rejecting this evidence, is therefore deemed erroneous. *4 The judgment must be reversed with costs, the verdict set aside, and new proceedings had consistent with this opinion. Wickliffe, for appellant; Pope & Daviess, contra. Ky.App. 1821. Waters v. Brown 3 A.K.Marsh. 557, 10 Ky. 557, 1821 WL 1170 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
