(Cite as: 7 T.B.Mon. 663,  23 Ky. 663 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1335 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wood, &c. v. Sayre, &c. Dec. 2, 1828. *1 Sheriffs. Regimental Paymasters. Militia Fines. Damages. Interest. Statutes. Parties to Motions. Construction. ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF FAYETTE. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 125(1) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k125 Amercement and Other Summary Remedies Against Officers 353k125(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Under the act of assembly providing that, if the sheriff fail or refuse to settle with the paymaster of the regiment on account of militia fines, he may proceed to recover the moneys due from the sheriff by motion in the county court, a sheriff is not liable by motion for damages or interest for failure to account for such fines, as the sum due only is recoverable. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 159 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k159 k. Summary Remedies. Most Cited Cases Motions against the sheriff and his sureties for failing to account for the county levy and militia fines cannot be maintained against them jointly, but severally. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 159 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k159 k. Summary Remedies. Most Cited Cases Under the act of assembly providing that, if the sheriff fail to settle with the paymaster of the regiment on account of militia fines, the latter may proceed to recover the moneys due from him by motion in the county court in the same manner that moneys are recoverable by counties against their public electors, and Act 1795, providing that the justices of the county courts shall have power to call on the sheriffs for a settlement of their accounts, and if they are in arrears the court shall give judgment for the sum that may appear due from the sheriffs or against their securities or legal representatives, provided such sheriffs or their securities have notice previous to the motion, the motion against the sheriff and his sureties for failing to account for militia fines cannot be maintained against them jointly, but severally against the sheriff or his sureties. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a judgment rendered by the county court, in favor of the paymaster of a regiment, against the sheriff and his sureties, for failing to account for the fines put into his hands for collection, by the colonel of the regiment. Motion by the regimental paymaster v. the sheriff and his sureties. The court rendered judgment for the amount of the fines, with fifteen per cent. damages, and five per cent. interest thereon. This interest and damages it is insisted, is erroneous; and other errors are assigned. Judgment for the principal, damages, and interest. The act of Assembly, or that section thereof, which regulates the motion, reads thus: *2 Statute authorizing the recovery against the sheriff and his deputies for failing to account for militia fines. "But in case the said sheriff shall fail, or refuse to pay, and settle with the paymaster, as aforesaid, the paymaster shall immediately proceed to recover the monies due from the said sheriff, and his deputies, or either of them, by motion in the county court, in the same manner, that moneys are recovered by the counties, against their public collectors of levy." It will be needless to refer to the acts regulating the recovery of levies from the sheriff, or public collectors, to ascertain whether the fifteen per cent. damages, and five per cent. interest, are recoverable, because this act fixes the amount to be recovered, by the words the "moneys due" without saying anything of damages or interest, and not leaving grounds for inference, that interest and damages were to be added. It can not be inferred from the expressions "the same manner that moneys are recovered by counties." For it will be seen that in these latter recoveries, damages and interest are not annexed. Sheriffs are not liable by motion for damages or interest for ??ailing to account for militia fines: the sum due only is recoverable. But as the judgment is to be disturbed on this account, another question is to be considered, not named in argument; and that is, the propriety of bringing the joint notice against the sheriff and his sureties. The act recited does not tell us against whom the recovery is to be had, but in case of the sheriff's failure, directs the moneys due to be recovered, not saying against whom, but "in the same manner" that counties recover their levies. Of course it would seem to follow, that the recovery must be had against the same description of persons of whom counties recover their levies. It is worthy of remark, that we are not referred to the mode in which county creditors recover their demands against the collectors of levies, but to the mode in which counties recover their balances in the hands of their collectors, unaccounted for. Are the sureties of the sheriff liable to be joined in the motion against the sheriff in such case? The first statute on this subject which we shall notice, as one to which we are referred, is in 2d Dig. L. K., 856, and reads thus: Statute of 1797, giving to the county court the motion against the sheriff for failing to account for the county levy: 2 Dig., 856. "And it shall and may be lawful, where such sheriff or collector fails to account with the county aforesaid, for the court of that county before whom he ought to account, to enter judgment against such delinquent sheriff or collector, for whatever shall appear to be due from such sheriff or collector, and award execution thereon, giving such sheriff or collector ten days previous notice of such proceeding." Here we find that not only the damages are omitted, as before suggested, but the sheriff or collector alone is named, against whom the motion is to be brought, and nothing is said of the sureties; and it evidently follows, that the remedy by motion does not lie by this act. *3 But there is another act on this subject, omitted in the digest of the statutes, probably, because it was supposed to be entirely superseded by the act last recited. But as this act, from which this provision is cited, contains no repealing clause, and there being some little variance between them, especially with regards to sureties, we must take the latter into consideration. It will be found in the 1st vol. Litt. L. K. 202, and is to this effect: Act of '95, (1 Litt. L. K., 202, omitted in the Digest), giving to the county court the motion against the sheriff or his sureties for failing to account for the levy. "They, (to-wit: the justices of the county courts) shall have power to call on the present and former sheriffs or collectors, for a settlement of their accounts, and may appoint two of their own body to settle with such sheriff or collector, and make a report of such settlement to the court; and if, on such settlement with any sheriff or collector, they may be in arrears to the county, the court shall give judgment and award execution for the sum that may appear due from such sheriff or collector, or against their securities, executors, administrators or legal representatives. Provided such sheriff or collector, his or their securities, executors, administrators or legal representative, have ten days previous notice of such motion." Both these acts must be taken as acts in pari materia, as relating to the same subject, and operating on the same legal proceedings. The first in the order of time, is the last which we have recited. The subsequent act omitted saying any thing about the sureties of the sheriff or collector; but it did not expressly repeal the former act, nor is there any provision in it incompatible with the first act; the first must consequently be considered in construing the latter act, and the effect will be, to insert in the latter act the provisions of the former touching sureties. The act of '95 was not repealed by the act of '97, but must be taken together, and the motion lies against the sheriff's sureties.-- But after this addition is made to the latter act, we are still unable to sustain this notice. For it is against the sheriff and his sureties both, and the act which subjects the sureties as well as the sheriff, authorizes a several proceeding, either against the sheriff or his sureties, but not against both. The authority is to move against the "sheriff or collector, or against their securities," not "and their securities." We would readily conclude that the legislature intended both to be included in one proceeding, as more safe to the rights of the parties, if there was any thing in the act which would tolerate the construction. The disjunctive "or," is used in other parts of the same sentence in its usual sense, implying severalty; that is, one or the other, but not both at once, and we can not place any other sense thereon. But motions against the sheriff and his sureties for failing to account for the county levy and militia fines, can not be maintained against them jointly, but severally, against the sheriff or his sureties. *4 It therefore follows, that without this act, this proceeding against the sureties at all, is wrong, and with this act, a joint proceeding can not be indulged. The judgment must consequently be reversed, with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to quash the notice, with costs. Mandate. Chinn for plaintiffs; Combs for defendants. Ky.App. 1828. Wood v. Sayre 7 T.B.Mon. 663, 23 Ky. 663, 1828 WL 1335 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
