(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 70,  10 Ky. 70 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1161 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rhody Ely, alias Holly v. Matthew Thompson et al. Dec. 1, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE CLARK CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 25 231 Justices of the Peace 231II Rights, Duties, and Liabilities 231k23 Liabilities for Official Acts 231k25 k. Judicial acts. Most Cited Cases A justice of the peace is liable to an action for exercising authority where he has none, though such act is a judicial act. Slaves 356 k 10 356 Slaves 356k10 k. Regulation of slaves, freedmen, and free negroes. Most Cited Cases The statute subjecting free persons of color to corporal punishment for raising the hand in opposition to a white person is repealed by the statute "to suppress riots," etc. Statutes 361 k 1502 361 Statutes 361VII Repeal 361k1502 k. Invalidity of repealing statute. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 361k168) A repealing clause in a statute may be valid, although every other clause of the statute is unconstitutional. Assault and Battery 37 k 48 37 Assault and Battery 37II Criminal Responsibility 37II(A) Offenses 37k47 Nature and Elements of Criminal Assault 37k48 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Statute providing for punishing negro for opposing person not negro, mulatto or Indian on proof by oath of party before justice of peace was unconstitutional. 2 Litt.Comp.Laws, p. 116. Constitutional Law 92 k 3250 92 Constitutional Law 92XXVI Equal Protection 92XXVI(B) Particular Classes 92XXVI(B)8 Race, National Origin, or Ethnicity 92k3250 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 92k215) The constitution extends to negroes as parties to the social compact in so far that it will protect them against acts of the legislature which, by the constitution, it has no power to enact. Constitutional Law 92 k 4679 92 Constitutional Law 92XXVII Due Process 92XXVII(H) Criminal Law 92XXVII(H)5 Evidence and Witnesses 92k4679 k. Cross-examination. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 92k266) 2 Litt.Comp.Laws, p. 116, providing that if any negro shall lift his hand in opposition to a person not a negro, mulatto, or Indian, the offending negro shall be punished for such offense, to be proved by the oath of the party before a justice of the peace of the county where the offense is committed, is repugnant to Const. art. 10, s 10, providing that no person shall be deprived of life or liberty unless by the judgment of his peers or the law of the land, since the act permits a conviction on oath of one party, without affording an opportunity of contradicting it or making his defense. Sentencing and Punishment 350H k 1525 350H Sentencing and Punishment 350HVII Cruel and Unusual Punishment in General 350HVII(F) Methods of Punishment 350Hk1523 Corporal Punishment 350Hk1525 k. Particular punishments. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 110k1213) 2 Litt. Laws, p. 116, providing that any negro who shall at any time lift his hand in opposition to any person not being a negro, mulatto, or Indian, shall receive 30 lashes on his bare back, is repugnant to Const. art. 10 s 15, providing that cruel punishment shall not be inflicted. Judges 227 k 36 227 Judges 227III Rights, Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 227k36 k. Liabilities for official acts. Most Cited Cases No person is liable in a civil action for what he has done as a judge while acting within the limits of his jurisdiction. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 This is an action of trespass, assault, battery and imprisonment, brought by a free person of color, against a justice of the peace and constable, in their individual characters. The justice pleaded his office, and the fact, that the plaintiff had lifted his hand in opposition to a white man, who had proved the fact before him, and that he had issued his warrant to apprehend the plaintiff, who was accordingly brought before him, and that he gave sentence that for the offence the plaintiff should receive thirty lashes on his bare back, according to an act of assembly in such cases provided, and avers this to be the same trespass in the declaration mentioned. The constable likewise justifies by alleging his office, and the execution of the warrant, and the infliction of the stripes, pursuant to the sentence of the justice. To these pleas of the defendants, the plaintiff replied in avoidance, that he was a free person of color. To this replication the defendants demurred. The court below sustained the demurrer,and gave judgment for the defendants. To reverse this judgment, this writ of error is prosecuted. The section of the statute relied on in these pleas, will be found in 2d Littell, 116, and reads as follows: "If any negro or mulatto, or Indian, bond or free, shall, at any time, lift his or her hand in opposition to any person not being a negro, mulatto or Indian, he or she, so offending, shall, for every such offence, proved by the oath of the party, before a justice of the peace of the county where such offence shall be committed, receive thirty lashes on his or her bare back, well laid on by order of such justice." It is contended for the plaintiff in error, that this section of this statute is repealed by the act to suppress riots, routs, unlawful assemblies of the people, and breaches of the peace, which repeals all laws within its perview. And if it is not repealed, that it is contrary to the constitution of this state, and therefore void; and that in either case the justice or constable could not justify under it. The law subjecting free persons of color to corporal punishment for raising his hand in opposition to a white person, is repealed by the law "to suppress riots, routs, and unlawful assemblies of the people, and breaches of the peace." On the contrary it is contended, that this section is not repealed; and if it is not, that it is consistent with, and does not contravene any of, the provisions of the constitution, and that the legislature might adopt this punishment, notwithstanding its cruelty, with regard to white persons. But it is further contended, that although this section may contravene the provisions of the constitution, yet free persons of color are no parties to our political compact, and of course are not entitled to its privileges or shielded by its provisions, and that they are subject to any regulation which the legislature may adopt, although such regulations are contrary to the constitution in their terms. And, finally, it is insisted, that if all these points are against the defendants in error, yet the one being a judicial officer, can not be responsible for this error in judgment; and the other, being a ministerial officer, and not entitled to judge of the matter, but bound to execute process without enquiring into its validity, neither can be responsible. *3 The act to suppress riots, routs and unlawful assemblies of the people, which is passed as a substitute for another of the same nature, previously adopted, does repeal all acts coming within its perview. The fair construction of this repealing clause is, that it repeals all statutes which provide punishments for the same offences; the punishment of which is fixed by that act. The inquiry then is, does this law provide a punishment for the same offence which is directed to be punished by the act first recited? The latter act provides the punishment for riots, routs, unlawful assemblies of the people, and breaches of the peace. Riots, routs and unlawful assemblies of the people, being well defined in criminal law, to be the combination of at least three or more, in perpetrating, attempting to perpetrate, or conspiring to effect some mischievous design, to the disturbance of the peace of society, can not, it is evident, include within them, or either of them, the crime in question. The words, breach of the peace, then, must include it, if it be included at all. There is a breach of the peace in every criminal offence; but some of them includes far more. The question then is, is there any single crime, or offence, or class of offences, which are included under the denomination breach of the peace, as a technical term, so that by that appellation they may be distinguished from others? In 1 Hawkins, 282, we are told "that inferior offences more immediately against the subject not capital, either amount to an actual disturbance of the peace, or do not." The same author proceeds, page 263, to point out and class those offences, which amount to a breach of actual disturbance of the peace, and he divides them into two kinds, to-wit, such as may be committed by one or two persons, and such as require a greater number. Those which require a greater number, he defines to be riots, routs, and unlawful assemblies, which are expressly provided for by the repealing statute, which we are considering, and can not, as we have said, include the crime in question. Those which may be committed by one or two persons, is defined to be assaults and batteries, affrays and forcible detainers. As to forcible detainers, they have no resemblance to the crime in question. But affrays and assaults and batteries have, and are included within the crime provided against by the statute pleaded by the defendants, and as the term, breach of the peace, is used in the repealing statute, and the same statute provides specially for riots, routs, and unlawful assemblies, which are part of the offences included within the generic term, breach of the peace, the term itself can have no force or meaning in the statute, unless it does actually include affrays and assaults and batteries. This we conceive is the true meaning of the words as used in the repealing act, and of course it does provide a punishment for affrays and assaults and batteries, and all former acts, providing a punishment for these offences; and with them, the statute, relied on by the defendants in error, so far as that act provides a punishment for assaults, batteries or affrays, by free persons of color, is repealed. We are aware that it has been contended by many, that this statute, now relied on as repealing the former, is unconstitutional, because it provides for the punishment of offences said to be indictable, without the intervention of a grand jury, and an indictment first found. Be this as it may, we are under no necessity of now deciding the question. It was competent for the legislature in the same act to repeal any former one, within its perview, although every provision in the repaling act was unconstitutional. We are then of opinion, that the statute relied on by the defendants, was repealed as to all affrays, assaults and batteries, committed by free persons of color, and that their case comes under the latter act. *4 It is competent for the legislature to repeal any act, though every other clause in the repealing statute may be unconstitutional. We have before said, that the act relied on by the defendants, included within it affrays, assaults and batteries by free persons of color. But it in fact includes far more, and affrays, assaults and batteries are not the only offences which come within its letter, and therefore as to these other offences it is not repealed. Its expressions, "lift his or her hand in opposition to any person," includes many acts which will not be either an affray or assault or battery. It is not necessary, according to the letter of the act, that this lifting of "hand in opposition," should be so directly against the person as to commit either. It is not necessary that it should be done in an angry or threatening manner. It may be done in self defence, or in warding off injury, or in repelling attempts on the virtue of the female of color, by an intended ravisher. Another remarkable feature exists in the act. The proof is pointed out. The oath of the party complaining is conclusive, and the justice must inflict the punishment, although the proof may be untrue, and he disbelieves it. This extensive nature of the act imposes upon us the disagreeable necessity of deciding upon its constitutionality, so far as it operates on free persons of color. The act first referred to is unconstitutional in so far as it subjects the free person of color to corporal punishment for raising his hand in opposition to a white person, if it be done in self defense; and in so far as it infringes the privileges secured by the 10th section of the 10th art. In deciding this question, we shall not long descant upon the severity of the act, and its want of those mild features which characterize the rest of our code; nor can they have much influence in deciding this question. For however severe, cruel and rigorous its features may be, if it does not contravene the constitution, it must be executed, till the legislative power of the government shall see cause to change it. It would, however, be difficult to exempt this section from the imputation of cruelty, within the meaning of the 15th section of the 10th article of the constitution, so far as the act subjects a free person of color to thirty lashes for lifting his hand in oppression to a white person who was attempting wantonly to violate his or her person, contrary to the peace and good order of society. That section provides, "That excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel punishments inflicted." If a justice of the peace, or any other tribunal, should, under this act, inflict the stripes against a free person of color, who lifted his hand to save him or herself from death or severe bodily harm, all men must pronounce the punishment cruel indeed. Several clauses of the constitution have been quoted, as repugnant to this statute. We shall, however, content ourselves with one more, and that is the 10th section of the 10th article, which provides, "That in all criminal prosecutions, the accused hath a right to be heard by himself and counsel; to demand the nature and cause of the accusation against him--to meet the witnesses face to face--to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor; and in prosecutions by indictment or information, a speedy public trial by an impartial jury of the vicinage; that he can not be compelled to give evidence against himself, nor can he be deprived of his life, liberty, or property, unless by the judgment of his peers, or the law of the land." It is evident that this section contemplates more kinds of public or criminal prosecutions, than those which are carried on by indictment or information. In all, it secures the right of being heard--of obtaining the nature and cause of the accusation--of confronting the witnesses, and disproving their evidence: In those by indictment or information, a trial by jury is secured. Determining what is the meaning of, and included in, the words "criminal prosecution," in this section, measurably controls he whole section. They evidently mean, any prosecution carried on in the name of the commonwealth, for any offence or crime against society. The word "criminal" is used as opposed to civil suits or actions. The one includes all suits of the government, the end and design of which is the punment of the accused; the other embraces all actions for individual redress. If this be not the meaning of the words, and they are designed to embrace the quality of those offences only of deeper dye and greater magnitude, usually denominated crimes, the section then absurdly makes a distinction between the whole class and those prosecuted by indictment or information. For all those greater crimes are so prosecuted, and the convention must be convicted of the absurdity of first providing for all, and then for a particular class, which included all. The act then in question, as it subjects the free persons of color to punishment, on the oath of the party, without trial, and without the possibility of contradicting and disproving his statements, is against both the letter and spirit of the constitution, and, of course, so far as it is not repealed, it has no force, and could furnish no defence or justication to the defendants in error. *5 But we are still met by the argument, that free persons of color are not parties to the political compact. This we can not admit, to the extent contended for. They are certainly, in some measure, parties. Although they have not every benefit or privilege which the constitution secures, yet they have many secured by it. We need not take the trouble of inquiring how far they are, or are not, parties. For, suppose the premises are admitted, the conclusion would not follow, that the legislature had a right to do with them as it chose, and that their acts on that subject could never be brought to a constitutional test. Although they are not parties to the compact, yet they are entitled to repose under its shadow,and thus secure themselves from the heated vengeance of the organs of government. Aliens, who sojourn here, and belong to another, and claim nothing of our government, but the right of passage, could not be taken up and hung by a justice of the peace, without a hearing, without an opportunity of proving themselves innocent, and without a jury, even if the legislature, by a solemn act, should direct it to be done. The tenth section of the constitution, which we have quoted, restricts the powers of the legislature and every department of government. The powers which they are therein forbidden to exercise, they do not possess, and can not exercise over any man or class of men, be they aliens, free persons of color, or citizens. This is demonstrable from the last section of that article, which declares, "that every thing, in this article, is excepted out of the general powers of government, and shall forever remain inviolate; and that all laws contrary thereto, on contrary to this constitution, shall be void." But it is still insisted, that notwithstanding all this, the judicial act of one of the defendants, and executive character of the other, ought to secure them from this action. Although free persons of color are not parties to our social compact, yet they have many privileges secured thereby, and have a right to its protection. It is very true, that a judicial officer can not be punished for errors in judgment, on subjects within the scope of his authority, and over which he has jurisdiction. But this does not hold good when he attempts to exercise authority when he has none, and assumes jurisdiction without any power. Hence it was decided in the case of  Kennedy v. Terrill and Duley, Hard. 490, that a justice of the peace was liable for issuing a warrant unknown to the provisions of the law. If this doctrine be correct, in the case of an illegal warrant, how much more so ought it to be in a case where the constitution is violated? It is an instrument that every officer of government is bound to know and preserve, at his peril, whether his office be judicial or ministerial; and he can not justify an act against its provisions, even with the authority of the legislature to aid him, however much that may mitigate his case. *6 A judicial officer is not liable for errors in judgment in cases within his jurisdiction--but this rule does not hold if he exercises authority where he has none, or assumes jurisdiction without any power. The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to overrule the demurrer, and for new proceedings to be had consistent with this opinion. Hanson and Pope, for plaintiff; Clay, for defendants in error. Ky.App. 1820. Ely v. Thompson 3 A.K.Marsh. 70, 10 Ky. 70, 1820 WL 1161 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
