(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 72,  19 Ky. 72 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1198 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bard & Co. v. Stewart. Nov. 16, 1825. *1 Factor. Principal. Purchaser. Assignee. Lien. APPEAL FROM THE NELSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Factors 167 k 47(5) 167 Factors 167k47 Lien 167k47(5) k. Waiver, Loss, or Discharge. Most Cited Cases The conveyance by a principal cannot destroy or impair any lien which the factor had previously acquired. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of facts. William Bard was the owner of a store, in which the appellee Stewart acted as his factor. Bard himself resided at a small distance therefrom, corresponded frequently with the store, and made consignments of merchandise from time to time. He conveyed to the appellants the store, and debts and accounts due thereon, to indemnify them, against sundry obligations and endorsements, which they had made for him as his sureties, and afterwards failed, On his failure they invoiced the goods and took possession thereof, and discharged the appellee from further employment therein. But he, being possessed of a number of notes and accounts due to the store, retained them in his hands as security for a debt due to him from the store for his services, and money advanced by him in conducting the business. The appellants filed this bill for a disclosure of the sums and amount which he retained, and prayed that they all might be delivered over to them. Bill by Bard & Co. The appellee set up his demand, and claimed a lien upon the debts and articles which he had retained until his demand was satisfied. Stewart's answer. The court below decided his lien good, and allowed his demand out of his debts due to the store when collected, and this forms the only question for our revision. Decree of the circuit court. We concur with the court below that he had such lien, and that he had a right to retain what was in his hands till his demand was satisfied. Factor has a lien on the goods in his possession and also on the debts owing for their sales, under his management, for his advances and services in the business. The general principle that a factor has a lien upon the goods or estate in his possession is recognized in nearly every book which treats of the subject, and the cases which have come under our observation in which the lien was disallowed, are based on the fact that the factor had parted with the possession of the articles which he held, thereby evidencing that he had no lien by contract, or if he had, that he did not rely on it, but had abandoned it, and trusted to his remedy at law. This is one of the cases where both courts of law and equity have indulged a party in redressing his wrongs. Here the circumstances of the parties shew that the factor trusted in some measure the fund in which he dealt. He had the possession and advanced his money and services, and blended the former with the funds of the store, and his principal some times visited the place, inspected the books, and gave directions, either verbally or by letter, for the government of the conduct of the factor, and however notorious the claims of the appellants may be, yet as they claim under the principal, his conveyance to them can not destroy or impair any lien which the appellee had previously acquired. *2 Lien of factor is in both law and equity, and is lost only by contract or parting with possession. Purchaser of principal always takes subject to factor's lien. The decree of the court below is therefore correct, and must be affirmed with costs. Hardin, for appellant. Ky.App. 1825. Bard v. Stewart 3 T.B.Mon. 72, 19 Ky. 72, 1825 WL 1198 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
