(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 483,  10 Ky. 483 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1139 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. D. & J. M'Alexander v. Ambrose Lee. Jun. 6, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE LINCOLN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Principal and Agent 308 k 197 308 Principal and Agent 308III Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 308III(F) Actions 308k197 k. Judgment and Enforcement Thereof. Most Cited  Cases Where an agent binds himself individually, a decree may be made against both agent and principal. Interest 219 k 1 219 Interest 219I Rights and Liabilities in General 219k1 k. Nature and Grounds in General. Most Cited Cases Equity should follow the law in decreeing interest. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The present defendant in error filed his bill in the court below, alleging that he had purchased of David M'Alexander four hundred acres of land on Licking, for which he then paid the full consideration, except one hundred dollars which he was to pay when he received a title, and which he was always, and is still ready to pay, if the title can be obtained. That said David M'Alexander, at the time represented that the land was his father, James M'Alexander's, and that he acted for his father and had an agency for him and made sale for his benefit. But the said David entered into an article, exhibited as part of the bill, in which he bound himself personally for the title. he further alleges a total failure to make the title, both by father and son, on repeated applications, and prays a disclosure of title and a decree for the land, if it can be had; if not, then a decree for the value. The son in his answer admits the sale and reception of payment, as stated in the bill and execution of the article; but exhibits a letter of attorney from his father--declares he made the sale as agent for his father and for his father's benefit alone, and insists that if the writing binds him personally, it was not so intended, but was so drawn by mistake of the parties and that for this cause he ought not to be made liable. He does not pretend that he is able to convey, and shows no title to fulfill his contract; but contends that the responsibility for the failure of the contract ought to be laid solely on the shoulders of his father. The father in like manner admits the sale and the payment as alleged in the bill--declares that the sale was for his benefit, by his son, and that the land was his. He also declares the land to be lost by a sale for taxes, and that he has no title and is wholly unable to convey, and submits to any liability which he may be under. The proof shows that the son received a stud horse in payment of the land-- kept him in service for a year and then sold him and received the price himself. The circuit court decree that the contract should be set aside, and having ascertained the price of the horse paid, by the verdict of a jury, decreed that sum, with interest to the complainant below, from the time of payment, against both of the defendants. To reverse this decree this writ of error is prosecuted. *2 The first question presented for our decision is, can this joint decree against both defendants be sustained? An agent selling lands and binding himself, individually, is liable in a joint decree against himself and the principal. There can be no doubt that the son is completely liable to the complainant to refund the payment received. He has wholly failed to establish any mistake in drawing the writing or article, and by its terms he is expressly and legally bound, as individual and not as agent. Every expression of that instrument shows that it was his indiviual deed, and not that of his father. The father, altho' not bound by the writing, has admitted enough in his answer to bind him, and has decidedly and clearly assented to and acknowledged his liability.--He therefore cannot complain. Volenti non fit injuria. In a bill like this, where a specific performance is required, and if that could not be had, then compensation, as the father had the title, and it was his land which was intended to be sold, and from him the conveyance was to come; and the son had made the contract, and bound himself, it was, unquestionably, proper to make them both parties to the suit to obtain relief. As it has turned out, in the event of the cause, that both are liable, and both bound, the one by confession and the other in law and equity, could it be proper in the chancellor to dismiss the bill as to one, and bar the relief of the complaint against him, when the right of that relief was unquestionable? We conceive not and that neither ought to be discharged from his responsibility till the demand was paid. The only remaining mode to avoid a joint decree, was to enter a separate decree against each, for the amount and allow the complainant below to pursue either or both till the demand was satisfied. If this had been done, we perceive no advantage resulting from it to the defendants themselves. The question of contribution, between them, would have remained the same as under the present decree, and each would have been in as great danger as he now is. Besides, to reverse a decree because it was not so entered, would be for want of form merely, when the present decree is equally as safe for the defendants below, and equally as conscientious as several decrees, and indeed less expensive. We cannot therefore disturb the decree on this account. The decree, however, has given the current interest from the date of the decree till the money was paid?? when, if the proceedings had been had in a court of common law, for the same demand, such interest could not have been recovered. Indeed the chancellor could only decree compensation, to avoid multiplicity of suits, and for the purpose of finishing the whole controversy, instead of turning round the parties to a court of common law.-- According to the principle adopted in the case of Samuel v. Minter, just decided, the decree must be reversed, as to current interest only, and the court below is directed to correct the decree, so far as to give the interest up to the date of the decree in that court, and as to the residue the decree is affirmed, each party bearing his own costs. *3 A chancellor, in decreeing interest, should pursue the course a law judge would adopt if he entertained the suit. Hardin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1821. McAlexander v. Lee 3 A.K.Marsh. 483, 10 Ky. 483, 1821 WL 1139 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
