(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 158,  17 Ky. 158 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1518 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Huff v. Thomas' Heirs. Oct. 20, 1824. *1 Allegation and Proof, Deeds, Trusts, Conditions, Covenants. ERROR TO THE NELSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Trusts 390 k 25(3) 390 Trusts 390I Creation, Existence, and Validity 390I(A) Express Trusts 390k24 Sufficiency of Language Used 390k25 In  General 390k25(3) k. Reservations, Conditions, and  Other Limitations in Conveyances. Most Cited Cases A stipulation in a deed that the grantee shall not alien the land without the consent of his wife is a stipulation merely to retain the estate, for a breach of which the grantee is liable to the grantor, and cannot be construed to be a trust held by the grantee for his wife. Evidence 157 k 433(4) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(B) Invalidating Written Instrument 157k433 Mistake 157k433(4) k. Deeds. Most Cited  Cases In an action to show that a conveyance of real estate was in trust, where the bill was based on a memorandum attached to the deed, evidence is inadmissible to show that the deed in its present form was made through mistake, and the design of the parties was to create a trust. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. On the 10th of March, 1789, William Coomes and wife conveyed two hundred acres of land, now the subject of controversy, to Edward M'Farland, who, a short time before, had married their daughter, now Anne Huff, the complainant below. This deed expressed the consideration of one hundred pounds, and contained the usual clause in the habendum, "to the use of said M'Farland and his heirs forever," and a clause of general warranty. At the foot of the deed, after the signature of the grantors, was written a receipt for L100, the consideration expressed, and a memorandum to this effect, not signed by any person, but recorded with the receipt, on the record book, immediately succeeding the deed, and preceding the clerk's certificate, to-wit: First deed conveying the land from Coomes to M'Farland. "Memorandum.--The said M'Farland shall not dispose of the within mentioned land and premises, without the consent and approbation of his wife, Anne, daughter to William Coomes, wife of the said M'Farland; and it is further concluded upon, that if the land aforesaid is not old, it shall be to the heirs of their body, lawfully begotten." Memorandum appendant to the deed; whether a part thereof or not, is undetermined in the case. The clerk's certificate of the acknowledgement in court, is in the usual form, stating that the grantors acknowledged the deed. Some short time afterwards, it was discovered, by a survey, that the boundaries did not contain quite two hundred acres, and they were accordingly extended to take in the quantity; and on the 16th of November in the same year, a new deed was executed and acknowledged, according to the extended boundaries, by the same grantors, expressing the mistake in the first, and its discovery, and the intention that two hundred acres should be included. It then proceeds to recite the same consideration of L100, and contains the usual clauses of covenant and warranty, without any such memorandum annexed, as belonged to the first deed. *2 Second deed from Coomes to M'Farland. Shortly after this, M'Farland abandoned his wife, and sold and conveyed the land, by an agent, to Walter Beall, who conveyed it as a gift or advancement to one of his daughters, whose children now hold the land by inheritance from their mother. M'Farland conveyed the land to Beall, he conveyed to his daughter, she died, it descended to the defendants. After M'Farland had been absent without any account of him for eight years or more, and supposed to be, the rumor said he was, dead, the complainant, Anne, intermarried with Aaron Huff, who has since died. M'Farland abandoned the country, his wife married Huff, he afterwards died. On the 15th of December, 1817, the said Anne filed this bill against the present holders of the land, aver??ing that the deed was ta secure the land to her, or that her husband was to hold it in trust for her; and to prove this, relies on the memorandum written upon the deed. The bill by Mrs. Huff, relying only on the memorandum. The defendants resist the claim, on the ground that the memorandum does not prove the trust, and that if it does, it is no part of the deed, and rely upon the second deed, without such memorandum, as extinguishing the claim; and also plead that the complainant and her second husband sold out her interest, and accepted compensation therefor; and insist that the lapse of time ??s a sufficient bar. Defendant's answer. The court below refused to decree the whole land to the complainant, and assigned her dower; and to reverse that decree she has prosecuted this writ of error. Decree of the circuit court. The father of the complainant, whose testimony is uncontradicted, deposes, that the design of the deed was to secure the land to the complainant, and that if it does not do so, in its present form, it was through his ignorance of what was necessary, and was so written by mistake. (1.) If the bill had been so framed as to correct a mistake or error in making the deed in its present shape, by appropriate charges and allegations, it might have presented a very different question, from that which we have now to decide. But no mistake in drafting or executing the deed is suggested, and the bill relies on the memorandum as proving the trust. So far, then, as the testimony of the grantor goes to impeach the deed, and prove a mistake therein, it must be disregarded. Nor do we view the bill as an attempt to establish a trust by parol only, in the complainant; so that we are relieved from the question, how far such evidence would be admissible. (1) Where the bill to establish that the conveyance was in trust for the complainant, relies exclusively on a memorandum appendant to the deed, parol evidence that the deed was drawn by mistake, or that it was intended as a trust, is inadmissible. (2.) Considering, then, the bill as relying upon the memorandum to establish the trust, and as designed to enforce it, we shall confine ourselves to its terms. We do not view its language as adequate to prove the trust, and all that can be inferred from it like a trust for the wife, is, that she might receive, by refusing to consent to a sale, the joint enjoyment thereof with her husband, and that the husband was bound to transmit the inheritance to their joint children, of whom none are living, and not a word is said with regard to the inheritance ever passing to the wife. *3 (2) A stipulation by the grantor of land, that the grantee shall not alien without the consent of his wife, (grantor's daughter), and that if not sold, it shall descend to the heirs of their bodies, does not make it a trust for her use. We do not deem it necessary to decide whether or not this memorandum is to be considered a part of the deed for if it is not, then it has no force against the deed. If it is a part thereof, it is either a condition annexed to the estate, for a violation of which the grantor alone can take advantage, or it is a stipulation merely to retain the estate, for a breach of which, by the sale to Beall, the representatives of M'Farland are responsible to the grantor, and the complainant can not, therefore, have any interest therein, in any event. It is either a condition annexed to the estate, for a breach of which the grantor alone can take advantage; or it is a covenant, for the breach of which, by the sale without the wife's consent, the grantee is responsible to the grantor. The court below, therefore, did right in refusing to decree the land to her; and as to the residue of the decree, as it is in her favor, she has no right to complain. The decree must be affirmed with costs. C. A. Wickliffe and Haggin, for plaintiff; Barry, for defendants. To obtain a modification of the decision, a motion ??vas made on the following OCTOBER 21. PETITION BY C. A. WICKLIFFE, ESQ. The undersigned respectfully solicits the attention of ??he court to the error assigned by the plaintiff, that ??he court below refused to give costs, when by law the ??omplainant in that court was entitled to costs. This ??oint is not noticed by the court in the opinion pro??ounced; consequently, the undersigned is induced to ??elieve that the question was not, by the court, consid??red. He, therefore, asks the court to re-consider that ??art of the cause, and so to modify their decree, as ?? give to the plaintiff in error and complainant below, ??er costs. C. A. WICKLIFFE. OCTOBER 23. But the court, on consideration, overruled the motion ??nd the opinion stands unaltered. Ky.App. 1824. Huff v. Thomas' Heirs 1 T.B.Mon. 158, 17 Ky. 158, 1824 WL 1518 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
