(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 173,  22 Ky. 173 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1662 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Samuel and his Sureties v. The Commonwealth, for Long. Nov. 30, 1827. *1 Executors. Sheriff and his Deputies. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 85 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k85 k. Disqualification to Act. Most Cited Cases An officer cannot lawfully levy an execution in which he is interested. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 100 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k100 k. Liabilities for Acts or Omissions of Deputies or Assistants. Most Cited Cases A sheriff is not liable for the acts of his deputy, who exceeds or departs from his delegated powers by the direction of the plaintiff in the suit, since in thus acting the deputy is the agent of the plaintiff, and not of the sheriff. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of debt against the principal sheriff and sureties, on his official bond. The breaches assigned are, that the relator had issued an execution and placed it in the hands of the deputy of the sheriff, who had made the money thereon, and had failed to return the execution or pay over the money, and that he, the relator had issued a new execution, which was enjoined, on the ground that the defendant in the execution had paid the money to the deputy on the first execution, and that injunction was made perpetual by the decree of a court of equity, to the great cost and damage of the relator. The parties agreed that the court should try the law and facts of the case, as the facts were not disputed or the proof contradictory, and the liability of the sheriff and sureties rested principally on a question of law. It appeared that when the first execution was issued and placed in the hands of the deputy, he held sundry executions of others against the relator, and he, the relator, assigned his execution to the deputy, on the deputy agreeing to give him credit for the amount thereof, on these executions of others which he held in his hands; which credits the deputy failed to give, and of course this action was brought against the principal. Agreed case stated. The court below gave judgment against the sheriff and sureties, to reverse which they have prosecuted this writ of error. Judgment of the circuit court. In rendering judgment against the sheriff, we conceive the court below erred. There can be no doubt that the principal is liable for the acts of his deputy, but they must be for failing to perform official acts, or those duties prescribed by law, or for doing such duties wrongfully, whereby injury ensues. But if the plaintiff in an execution directs the management thereof, different from the directions given by the law, or gives, the deputy a power over it, which the law does not give him, he may lose his recourse on the principal altogether. In this case the plaintiff made a special agreement with the deputy concerning his execution, and for the non-performance of it the deputy is bound as an individual, and not the principal and sureties. *2 Where the plaintiff in an execution gives to the deputy sheriff power over it, not given by the law, or gives directions for the management of it, otherwise than as required by law, the principal sheriff is not responsible. The execution was assigned to the deputy which rendered it improper that he should execute it, and therefore the principal and sureties can not be responsible because he did not execute it. To permit the relator to recover would be allowing him to discharge the deputy from acting, and then making the principal liable because the deputy did or did not act. The deputy can not be permitted to deal in executions and make special contracts with plaintiffs, and then subject his principal to damages for breach of their contract. In dealing with the deputy the relator, in this instance, must have trusted him individually, and being disappointed he can not, for that cause, go back to the original ground on which the law placed him before this contract was made. Deputy sheriff shall not execute a writ of execution assigned to himself. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below to give judgment for the defendants with costs. Crittenden, for plaintiff; Triplett, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Samuel v. Commonwealth 6 T.B.Mon. 173, 22 Ky. 173, 1827 WL 1662 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
