(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 151,  22 Ky. 151 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1655 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Doughertv and Wife, Legatees of Littlepage v. Morgan's Ex'rs. Oct. 30, 1827. *1 Bills of Review. Parties in Chancery. APPEAL FROM THE MUHLENBURG CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 460 150 Equity 150XI Bill of Review 150k460 k. Form and Sufficiency. Most Cited Cases A bill of review must bring the former decree before the court or it will be wholly defective. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Dougherty and wife filed their bill of review, in the court below, against John Morgan, executor of Charles Morgan, stating that the wife before the marriage, had brought a suit in chancery against Charles Morgan, executor of Eppes Littlepage, and the said Charles departed this life, and the suit was revived against his executor John Morgan, and came on to be heard, and the bill was dismissed upon the exhibits filed, and since then the intermarriage of the complainants took place. Bill of review. They charge that from the errors apparent on the face of the decree, and upon the decree of the chancellor, upon the bill, answer and other exhibits filed, they must pray the court to review the former decree, and correct the same; which they conceive must be done, as the defendants answer was unsupported by testimony, upon which the chancellor could legally render a decree in favor of the statements therein contained. Grounds for the review prayed for. This is substantially, and indeed almost literally, every charge in this bill of review. The former decree and record of the suit is not made part thereof, or otherwise brought before the court. Former decree not made part of the bill of review. To this bill the defendant demurred. Demurrer to the bill. Upon the hearing of this demurrer, the court below not only sustained the bill, but without permitting an answer, or any further proceedings, decreed at once, a considerable sum to be paid by the defendant; and, what is more remarkable, an equal sum was decreed to two other persons who are not made parties to the bill of review, either as complainants or defendants. The court states in this decree, that on the first hearing, the court had held that a settlement of an estate made with the county court, pending a bill in chancery for the same purpose, was prima facie correct; but on the hearing of this demurrer, had discovered that this court had decided otherwise; and therefore rendered such decree then as ought to have been rendered in the first instance. Decree of the court below, and the reasons of that court for the same. From this decree the defendant below appealed. Without noticing the errors in the details of this decree, which are numerous, or resting on the impropriety of rendering a decree finally, on overruling a demurrer, we conceive that the bill of review can not be sustained, and ought to have been dismissed on demurrer. It is improper to render a final decree on overruling a demurrer. We can not ascertain certainly by this bill, whether the error complained of is one of law or of fact; but the best inference we can draw, is, that it was an error of fact, because the chancellor had not evidence to support the answer, and it would be difficult to find a precedent to support such a bill. *2 A bill of review can not be maintained upon the ground that the former decree was not supported by evidence. But whether the bill be one for a review of the error, either in law or fact, it can not be sustained, because it does not bring the first decree before the court, or in any manner make it a part of the proceedings; nor is there any history given us of the first record, nor can the first record be taken into view in considering this. And for this reason this bill as a bill of review, is wholly defective. A bill of review must bring the former decree before the court, or it will be wholly defective. But if in this we should be mistaken, and should be allowed to look into the first record, which is copied with this, and which is identified by the decree, and not by the bill, we discover that there was no error in dismissing the first bill, as the court below seems to suppose. For although the court, as said in the last decree, may have dismissed the first for wrong reasons, yet the dismission is right. It is without prejudice to a future suit. There were several other defendants, entitled, as distributees or legatees, to an undivided share of the estate. Process was never served upon them, nor had they appeared. They were, as has been often held, necessary parties. It is not error, or ground for a review, to dismiss a bill without prejudice, where there is a defect of parties. The court might have directed the bill to be dismissed, unless they were brought before the court in a reasonable time, and thus have given time to bring them in. But that court was not bound to do so, and might at once have dismissed the bill without prejudice, which is no more than was actually done. Where there is a defect of parties, the court may al-allow?? time for the proper parties to be made, or dismiss the bill at once, according to its discretion. The decree of the court below is, therefore, reversed with costs, and the cause is remanded, with directions to sustain the demurrer, and dismiss the bill of review with costs. Triplett, for appellants; Crittenden, for appellees. Ky.App. 1827. Dougherty v. Morgan's Ex'rs 6 T.B.Mon. 151, 22 Ky. 151, 1827 WL 1655 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
