(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 8,  17 Ky. 8 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1463 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cradock and Sureties v. Patterson, &c. Oct. 5, 1824. *1 Appeals to the Circuit Courts. ERROR TO THE HART CIRCUIT; CHRISTOPHER TOMPKINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 141(1) 231 Justices of the Peace 231V Review of Proceedings 231V(A) Appeal and Error 231k141 Appellate Jurisdiction 231k141(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases From a judgment of a justice, on a motion against a constable for failing to return an execution, where the amount exceeds L5, an appeal lies only to the circuit court, unless the case has arisen since the act of 1835. Justices of the Peace 231 k 145(3) 231 Justices of the Peace 231V Review of Proceedings 231V(A) Appeal and Error 231k142 Decisions Reviewable 231k145 Amount or Value in  Controversy 231k145(3) k. Requisite Amount or Value,  and Determination Thereof. Most Cited Cases An appeal lies from a judgment of a justice against a constable for money collected and not paid over, if the amount exceeds five pounds. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The only question made in this cause, is, does any appeal lie from the judgment of a justice of the peace, rendered pursuant to the 15th section of an act passed 4th of February, 1820, 1 Dig. S. L. 299, against a constable and his sureties for money collected and not accounted for, above the sum of five pounds, on notice and motion? The court below decided this question against the appeal and dismissed it without hearing, and to reverse that decision this writ of error is prosecuted. (1.) Previous to the act increasing the jurisdiction of justices of the peace from five pounds to fifty dollars, an appeal from a justice only lay to the county court, and for all sums below five pounds, judgment might be rendered against a constable for money collected by a justice on notice and motion. But when the legislature was about to grant jurisdiction of larger sums, they provided for an appeal to the circuit court in the following words: "In all cases tried and determined before a single justice, where the matter in controversy shall be above five pounds, either party shall have a right to appeal from the judgment of such justice to the circuit court of the county in which the judgment shall have been given." 2 Dig. L. K. 701. The provisions of this section are extensive enough in their letter to embrace the present appeal, and the only way to avoid their force, is, by construing them to mean such cases only as the act itself gives up to the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, and which did not belong to them before, and excluding such cases as may be confided to their jurisdiction by subsequent statutes. It is readily admitted?? that the increase of jurisdiction given by the act, was the cause of this provision; but it is not limited to cases provided for by the act, and is couched in general terms as intended to embrace every case which had or might exist. Care is taken by a provisionary clause, not to embrace cases before provided for, while language is used sufficiently broad to comprehend all cases above five pounds; and while ever the act remains in force, it must bring within its terms all subsequent cases which the legislature might add. The jurisdiction by notice and motion against constables and their sureties, is given by a subsequent act; but when given, the new act and the act in question must be construed each to have effect, if practicable, as acts in pari materia, applying to the same subject matter, and when the acts are read together, but little doubt can remain that the appeal lies. *2 (1) Appeal lies from the judgment of a justice against a constable for money collected and not paid over, where the amount exceeds five pounds, to the circuit court. It might be a matter of question whether this appeal ought to have been dismissed, even if no appeal lays; because it would seem by another act, that the circuit court as well as the justice of the peace, has original jurisdiction of the matter, (1 Dig. L. K. 297), and that the remedy before a justice, is cumulative only. But without being understood to express any positive opinion on this point we are satisfied, that the appeal lay, and that the court below erred in dismissing it. Quere--Where a case of which the circuit court has original jurisdiction, but not appellate, is brought before the court by appear from a justice, ought the court to dismiss it, or try it on the merits? The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below to proceed to the trial of the appeal. Monroe, for plaintiffs; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Craddock v. Patterson 1 T.B.Mon. 8, 17 Ky. 8, 1824 WL 1463 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
