(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 89,  21 Ky. 89 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1509 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hall v. Amos. Jun. 6, 1827. *1 Conversion. Possession. Distress for Rent. ERROR TO THE BOURBON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Landlord and Tenant 233 k 1712 233 Landlord and Tenant 233VII Rent 233VII(D) Distress 233k1709 Wrongful Distress 233k1712 k. Right of action in general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k274(2)) If the landlord directs a distress warrant to be levied on the property of a stranger, and causes it to be sold, he is guilty of a conversion. Conversion and Civil Theft 97C k 134 97C Conversion and Civil Theft 97CII Actions 97CII(A) Right of Action and Defenses 97Ck129 Defenses 97Ck134 k. Title or right to possession of defendant or  third person. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 389k23  Trover and Conversion) Possession by defendant is not necessary to support an action of trover; conversion is the gist of it. Detinue 126 k 6 126 Detinue 126k3 Grounds 126k6 k. Taking and detention by defendant. Most Cited Cases To sustain an action of detinue, defendant must at some time have had possession, the possession and detention being the gist of the action. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement. The defendant in error, had issued his distress warrant for rent, and caused it to be levied on certain hogs, as the property of his tenant, William F. Hansford. The plaintiff in error, claimed the hogs of the officer, who called a jury to try the title. The defendant attended the jury, and actively opposed the claim of the plaintiff before that jury, both by evidence and argument, and procured a verdict in favor of his warrant of distress, and the property was sold at his instance, he being an attendant at the sale and urging it for his benefit. The plaintiff then brought his action of trover for the conversion of the hogs, and after proving his title thereto prima facie, and that the hogs were disposed of by the defendant as before stated, the court below instructed the jury as in case of a non-suit, deciding that the defendant never had such possession of the hogs as would subject him to an action of trover, and the jury found for defendant, and judgment was rendered accordingly. Decision of the circuit judge. In detinue, the defendant must have had possession; but we know of no authority requiring possession in the defendant, in an action of trover. In detinue the defendant must have had possession--not so in trover____There may be conversion without a visible possession-- --The gist of this action is the conversion. In the former action, the possession and detention, in the latter, the conversion, is the gist of the action, and that a defendant may procure a conversion, without being visibly possessed of property, there can not be any reasonable doubt. Indeed it can not be said that the defendant was never possessed of the property. *2 At common law, the landlord himself issued his distress warrant, and chose his bailiff and prosecuted his distress. This bailiff was his agent, and the taking and disposing of the estate was his own act; for qui facit per alium, facit per se. Our legislature, supposing that such power entrusted to the landlord might be an engine of oppression, has imposed a check upon it, by requiring the oath of the landlord as to what is due, and directing a justice to issue the warrant; but still the officer is completely a substitute for the landlord, so far as he acts under his special directions and instance, and is legally authorized to do for the landlord what before he could do himself; and the warrant could give no authority as to the property of the plaintiff, and as to him, if the property belonged to him, it was a complete conversion, and the decision of the court, therefore, is wholly erroneous, and must be reversed, with costs, the verdict set aside, and the cause remanded with directions for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. If the landlord directs the distress warrant to be levied on the property of a stranger and causes it to be sold, he is guilty of a conversion of that property. Depew, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. Hall v. Amos 5 T.B.Mon. 89, 21 Ky. 89, 1827 WL 1509 (Ky.), 17 Am.Dec. 42 END OF DOCUMENT
