(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 1,  10 Ky. 1 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1137 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Frankfort Bank v. Anderson. Oct. 25, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Process 313 k 155 313 Process 313III Defects, Objections, and Amendment 313k155 k. Necessity and mode of objection in general. Most Cited Cases Defective process can be objected to only by motion or by plea in abatement. Process 313 k 166 313 Process 313III Defects, Objections, and Amendment 313k166 k. Waiver of defects and objections. Most Cited Cases Any objection which might have been urged to a process is waived by pleading to the merits. Appearance 31 k 24(5) 31 Appearance 31k21 Waiver of Objections 31k24 Defects in Process or Service 31k24(5) k. Defects in service in general. Most Cited  Cases A defendant by appearing generally in person or by attorney, and pleading to the merits, thereby waives all irregularities in the summons or other process by which it is sought to acquire jurisdiction of his person. Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 12 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k12 k. Persons liable. Most Cited Cases Assumpsit does not lie against a corporation aggregate, on an implied promise. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 2448 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101IX Corporate Powers and Liabilities 101IX(D) Contracts and Indebtedness 101k2448 k. Contracts under seal. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k455) No recovery can be had for work and labor performed by a mechanic for a corporation at the request of its officers, where the employment was not evidenced by a contract under seal. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 2525 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101IX Corporate Powers and Liabilities 101IX(F) Civil Actions 101k2525 k. Nature and form. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k501) An action on an implied promise cannot be maintained against a corporation aggregate. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an action of assumpsit brought by the appellee against the President, Directors and Company of the Frankfort Bank. On the general issue being pleaded, the cause progressed to trial; and, after the appellee's evidence was adduced, the counsel for the defendants moved the court to instruct the jury as in case of a nonsuit. This motion was overruled, and a verdict and judgment rendered for the appellee; from which the Bank has appealed.--The declaration of the plaintiff below contains but one count, for work and labor done and performed by him, as a mechanic, at the appellant's special instance and request, in and about making an iron vault for the use of the bank and concludes with a quantum meruit, in the usual form. *2 On the trial, the appellee proved that he furnished the materials, and in his shop made, for the bank, a vault, at the inconvenience of discontinuing other business, and disoblige his customers; and that he set up the vault in the banking house of the president, directors and company of the Frankfort Bank, in the presence of the president of the institution, who superintended the whole work, and expressed his entire satisfaction with it after it was completed. That the labor was worth what he claimed for it, and that the institution ever since the erection of the vault used it for the purposes of banking, and never expressed any dissatisfaction therewith. But no express agreement or promise to pay for the labor aforesaid was proved. The assignment of errors questions the sufficiency of the process, served and returned, to warrant the judgment.--We conceive that it is too late to take this exception. The defendants appeared and pleaded to the merits. The process, therefore, cannot now be questioned. The main question, then, to be decided, is that presented by the next assignment of error to-wit: Can this action of assumpsit be sustained against the bank? It necessarily results from the incorporation of a number of individuals into one body, making what may be styled an immaterial person, that the united will of the whole, or at least a majority of its members or representatives, should be the will of that immaterial existence, which is acknowledged by law. Of necessity the law must fix upon some certain evidence to prove what that will really is, and that it has been ascertained. It cannot be ascertained by the separate voice and expressions of all or any of the individuals composing it; for, on deliberating together in an official form, their determination may be quite different. After the determination is made, it is necessary that the law should fix on some evidence of it, which would bind the whole, and would be unerring and certain, and exclude all other kinds as doubtful, and leading to a perplexing variety of exceptions, calculated to enhance litigation. This evidence is the seal of the corporation, which has been adopted by a train of decisions in the English courts too numerous to be shaken and which need not here be cited. The principle has been adopted by this court in the case of the Madison hemp and flax spinning company, and Levet, as well as other cases. It is true that a statute which creates a corporation, may authorize it to speak by other means than a seal. But if it is not thus authorized, the common law supplies the seal as the universal mode. It is true that this corporation is authorized to speak and make contracts for sums of money, by notes signed by the president and countersigned by the cashier. But the insertion of this provision shows, that such notes would have been invalid without it; and that it was designed so far to change the common law provisions, which would attach on its creation. The best way, then to construe its powers, is to allow it to be just such a creature as the statute makes it, and to bind itself by the modes there pointed out in cases where it is authorized thus to contract; but to leave it to general rules known and long established in other cases. We have been led to consider the case in the supreme court of the United States, of the  Bank of Columbia vs. Patterson, 7 Cranch, 299, which was relied on in argument, and which has decided this point differently. We regret to differ in opinion with that tribunal, not on account of the obligatory force of its decisions on this court, in a case situated as the present; but on account of the respect we have towards the learning and talent of the judges filling such an exalted station, and because both courts, in their appropriate spheres, are courts of the last resort, and between such harmony is very desirable. But we must be pardoned in saying, that we do not perceive the conclusive force of the reasoning used in the case cited, sufficiently, to induce us to make the assumpsit of a bank an exception to that of other corporations. The only color for an exception, arises from the consideration, that a bank is expected to deal much in money, and to receive many deposits, whereby it may create many promises, either express or implied, from which it might be released, to the great detriment of individuals. Evil consequences, resulting from a legal principle, in every case where the court has choice of sides, ought, we admit, to induce it to take that fraught with the fewest evils. But to make an exception to a general rule, barely on that account, in a case where the reason of the rule exists and applies with all its force, because the corporations may have adopted practices, in which individuals had so far concurred, as to produce evil consequences, from the non-existence of responsibility on the part of the bank, would be too arbitrary, and would be warping the rule to circumstances, and measuring it by our feelings, instead of requiring that circumstances, in their origin, should conform to the rule. *3 After a defendant appears and pleads the general issue, it is too late to object to the process. A corporation can only bind itself by its seal, unless other provision is made by the act creating it. Vide 1st Marsh., 105, acc. We are, therefore, of opinion that this action against the bank cannot be supported. We are consoled, in giving this decision against a claim so well supported by proof, in the thought that no judgment here rendered will bar the claim of the appellee against any individuals, who, pretending to represent the bank, have induced him thus incautiously, to spend so much time and labor without any adequate compensation. The judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court, with directions there to dismiss the suit of the appellee with costs. Hardin for plaintiff, Talbot contra. Ky.App. 1820. Frankfort Bank v. Anderson 3 A.K.Marsh. 1, 10 Ky. 1, 1820 WL 1137 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
