(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 375,  22 Ky. 375 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1700 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Roby v. Sharp and Darnall. Dec. 26, 1827. *1 Mistakes. Usury. Assignor and Assignee. Answers. Practice. ERROR TO THE BOURBON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Usury 398 k 98 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(B) Rights and Remedies of Parties 398k96 Enforcement of Usurious Contract or Security 398k98 k. Amount Actually Loaned, Advanced, or Paid.  Most Cited Cases Where a note is given for a loan of depreciated bank paper, with an agreement by the maker to repay in specie, so as to make the transaction usurious, the maker is liable to the payee only for the specie value of the paper when loaned. Bills and Notes 56 k 131 56 Bills and Notes 56II Construction and Operation 56k131 k. Mode and Form of Payment. Most Cited Cases Where a note is given for a loan of depreciated bank paper, but, by mistake, the note is made to read as if payable in specie, the maker is liable to the payee only for the value of the note in specie when the loan was made. Bills and Notes 56 k 369 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(D) Holders in Due Course 56k364 Defenses Against Holders in Due Course 56k369 k. Conditions or Collateral Agreements. Most  Cited Cases An assignee of a note without notice that it was given for depreciated currency, but by mistake was made to read as if payable in specie, is not affected by such mistake. Bills and Notes 56 k 376 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(D) Holders in Due Course 56k364 Defenses Against Holders in Due Course 56k376 k. Usury. Most Cited  Cases The assignee of a note, without notice that it was given for depreciated bank paper, but was to be repaid in specie, thus constituting a usurious consideration, is not affected by the usury. Bills and Notes 56 k 529 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k528 Amount of Recovery 56k529 k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where a note was drawn payable in dollars, by mistake, on a contract, the consideration for which was depreciated bank notes, and the payee's assignee, who had no knowledge of the mistake, recovered the nominal amount of dollars from the maker, the latter may have a decree entered against the payee for the difference between the real specie value of the money when loaned, with legal interest, and the nominal amount recovered by the assignee. Equity 150 k 423 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k423 k. Nature and Extent of Relief in General. Most Cited Cases Where, in a bill by an obligor against the obligee and assignee to enjoin the judgment of the assignee on the ground of usury, the obligee admits, and the assignee denies the fact, and, for want of proof an injunction is refused, the obligor may have a decree against the obligee. Bills and Notes 56 k 92(4) 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(E) Consideration 56k91 Sufficiency 56k92 In  General 56k92(4) k. Adequacy. Most Cited  Cases Where depreciated bank notes were the consideration for a note for the nominal amount of dollars, the maker will be relieved, whether the note was drawn by mistake or not. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Roby filed his bill against Sharp as the assignor of a note, and Darnall as the obligee and assignor, to be relieved against a judgment for fifty dollars; alleges that the note on which the judgment was founded, was executed for fifty dollars in paper of the bank of the Commonwealth, loaned to him by Darnall, and that it was to be restored in paper, which, when the note became due as well as when the money was lent, was only worth half as much as gold and silver coin; but through mistake, the note was written for dollars, omitting the kind of currency, in which it was to be repaid, and he prays that the note may be reduced to its proper value. Bill to scale a judgment on an obligation given in dollars, by mistake, on a contract for bank notes. Sharp denies any knowledge of the mistake or consideration of the note. Answer of the assignee, denying the mistake. Darnall admits the note was given for a loan of paper of the bank of the Commonwealth, which was then as fifty-five of specie, to one hundred of the paper, but denies any mistake in drafting the note, and alleges that the loan was to be restored in specie. Obligor's answer, denying the mistake, and insisting the specie was to be paid for the paper by contract. The court tried the cause on the bill and answers, and dissolved the injunction, and dismissed the bill with costs, as to both defendants. Decree of the circuit court. As the answer of Darnall was no evidence against Sharp, the court did not err in dismissing the bill as to him. If bank notes, worth half the value, be the consideration of an obligation for the nominal amount of the dollars the obligor shall be released whether the obligation were drawn by mistake or not. But whether the original transaction is to be taken as stated by Roby in his bill, or Darnall in his answer, it is evident the court ought to have given relief as to him. For if there was a mistake in the note, as the complainant states, then the note ought to have been corrected, and if there was no mistake, and the note was given for the restoration of the loan in specie, while the paper was so greatly depreciated, then the transaction was usurious. As the mistake is denied and not proved, the transaction must be taken as admitted by Darnall, and that the note is usurious we can not doubt. An act against usury embraces loans of money or property, and if a depreciated medium is loaned, and the loan is to be paid in a medium more valuable than the increase of a legal rate of interest, then a greater interest is reserved than the law permits, especially if there is a lending and borrowing as the obligee here admits, and the matter generally rests on the enquiry, whether the transaction is a loan. The decree, therefore, as to Sharp, must be affirmed with costs. But as to Darnall, the decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded with directions, that a decree be entered against him for the difference between the real specie value of the money when loaned, with interest at the legal rate, and the nominal amount of the demand recovered by Sharp. *3 Injunction obtained by assignee against the judgment. dissolved; but decree against obligee who confessed the matter of the bil. Triplett, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. Roby v. Sharp 6 T.B.Mon. 375, 22 Ky. 375, 1827 WL 1700 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
