(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 267,  20 Ky. 267 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1416 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Taylor v. Bate. Apr. 4, 1827. *1 ??rties. Practice in Chancery. Absent Defendants. Unknown Heirs. Decrees. Mandates. ??PEAL FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT; JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 94 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k93 Necessary or Indispensable Parties 150k94 k. Persons Indispensable to Complete and  Final Determination. Most Cited Cases Where a bill alleges that the heirs of a deceased woman are unknown, and makes them defendants as such, and it appears from the exhibits made a part of the bill that the husband of such deceased woman is her heir, such husband becomes a necessary party, and must be brought before the court. Equity 150 k 115 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k115 k. Bringing in New Parties. Most Cited Cases Where publication was made against one not a party to the bill, and his name was afterwards inserted, it was held that such person was not properly before the court. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. The court below has given a decree against the ??pellant for a moiety of a tract of land, patented ?? William Fleming, and conveyed by the devisees ?? said Fleming, to the appellant, by a deed of con??yance filed, but not authenticated as the law re??ires, and wanting the acknowledgment of the ?? sband of one of the female devisees. Decree of ??e circuit court. The appellee asserted his claim in the bill, as de??ed, from a written contract between him and Da??d Ross; a second writing between said Ross and ?? omas Donnally, the former husband and suppos?? heir of Janet Douglas; a third writing from Fleming, the patentee, in his life time acknowled??ing that Janet Douglas, heiress of James Dougla?? and the said David Ross, was entitled to a conve??ance of a moiety of the land, so soon as a dispu?? with Hite, concerning the land was terminated. Appellee's derivation of claim. The bill of the complainant and his proceedin?? in bringing the necessary parties before the cou?? are so defective, that the merits of the case can n?? be decided. He has alleged that the heirs of Jan?? Douglas are unknown, and has made them defen??ants as such, when by the exhibits made part of h?? bill, and on which he relies, Thomas Donnally, h?? husband, is her heir, and by his proof, Donnally so?? out the residue of her interest to Ross, and there ?? no suggestion that Donnally is dead, nor is he ma?? a party, nor is it alleged that the exhibits or pro?? in this respect is mistaken, and that he is not h?? heir; he is so necessarily a party to this controve??sy, that he ought to be brought before the court. It appearing in the exhibits and proofs the husband of the deceased woman is her heir, allegation of complainant that her heirs are unknown, and publication against them as such, will not do. He made publication against defendants, D??vid Ross and Dorothia Bratton, one of the devise?? of Fleming. By a bill of revivor, he suggested t?? death of Ross, declared his heirs to be unknow?? made them defendants, as such, obtained an ord?? of publication against them, but never had it inse??ed the requisite time, in any authorized newspape?? so that they can not be said to be brought before t?? court at all. And without them, or without shewi?? some valid excuse for not having them brought i?? he can not be entitled to a decree. *2 Ross' heirs not before the court. He made publication against Dorothia Bratto?? while she was not made defendant in his bill, a?? after the order of publication returned, and pro?? made of its insertion, he then amended his bill a?? made her a defendant for the first time, and th?? proceeded as if she was properly before the court. To advertise against one, not made party by the bill, and afterwards insert the name as an amendment will not do. We, therefore, waive deciding whether he is e??titled to a decree on the merits, and pass over t?? absurdity of giving him a decree for an undivid?? moiety, to be valid upon the contingency of his pa??ing money, and not providing for the event of h?? not paying it, and all other injuries, and conclu?? ??at the decree can not be sustained, for the want of ??roper parties to the controversy. Decree for an undivided moiety to be valid on the payment of a sum of money, without providing for the failure of payment, disapproved. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with ??sts, and the cause be remanded, with directions to ??ismiss his bill, without prejudice to any future suit, ??r the same cause, unless he shall in a reasonable ??me bring the proper parties before the court. Haggin and Denny, for appellant; Crittenden, for ??ppellee. Ky.App. 1827. Taylor v. Bate 4 T.B.Mon. 267, 20 Ky. 267, 1827 WL 1416 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
