(Cite as: 4 Litt. 244,  14 Ky. 244 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1267 (Ky.)) Red Flg Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Ghee v. Ellis and Browning. Oct. 22, 1823. *1 FROM THE PENDLETON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JOHN TRIMBLE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 287 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k284 Rights and Remedies on Avoidance of Sale or Failure  of Title 161k287 k. Recourse to Parties or Officer. Most Cited  Cases Where a sheriff, without the knowledge of the creditor, sold the property of a third person under an execution, the purchaser, on a bill against the plaintiff and defendant in execution, may take a decree against the defendant. Execution 161 k 287 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k284 Rights and Remedies on Avoidance of Sale or Failure  of Title 161k287 k. Recourse to Parties or Officer. Most Cited  Cases Where a sheriff, without direction or knowledge of the creditor, seizes property not belonging to the debtor, which is recovered by the owner from the purchaser, the creditor is not liable to the purchaser, either at law or equity. Execution 161 k 340 161 Execution 161XII Return 161k340 k. Quashing or Setting Aside. Most Cited Cases Where a sheriff seized and sold property not belonging to a judgment debtor, the sheriff's return of what he has collected, or of the bond taken for property sold, cannot be set aside, and bars another execution. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 120 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k120 k. Irregular or Invalid Sale. Most Cited Cases Where a sheriff, without the direction of the creditor, sells property of a third person which is recovered by the owner from the purchaser, the sheriff is liable to the purchaser. BIBB for plaintiff; CRITTENDEN for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Under an execution in favor of M'Ghee (the plaintiff in error), against Micajah Browning, the sheriff seized and sold a negro boy slave, as the property of Browning, and Ellis, the defendant in error, became the purchaser, at three months' credit, and executed his bond with security, to M'Ghee, for the price thereof, in the usual form. Shortly afterwards, James Brown, who claimed the slave as his, by title paramount to that of Browning, brought his action of detinue for the slave, against Ellis, and recovered. Ellis then exhibited this bill against both M'Ghee and Browning, with injunction against his bond for the purchase money, praying a perpetual injunction, which the court granted by a final decree; to reverse which, M'Ghee has prosecuted this writ of error. Where the sheriff has, without the direction or knowledge of the creditor, seized and sold the property of a third person, and that property has been recovered by the real owner, from the purchaser, the creditor is not liable, either in law or equity, to refund the money to the purchaser. *2 There can be no doubt, from the testimony in the cause, that the slave was the property of Brown, and that he had sent the slave to attend his daughter, Mrs. Browning, home, when she was on a visit at his house, under a promise from her that he should be restored in two weeks, he, Brown, living in a distant county. While the slave was at Browning's the sheriff seized and sold him, and M'Ghee, who had placed his execution in the hands of the officer to pursue his legal remedy, gave no directions about the sale, and had no interference with it, and denies that he knew of the sale until after it was over. The sheriff is liable to the purchaser. The defendant in the execution is liable in equity, on the ground that so much of his debt has been discharged by the purchaser; but he is not liable at law, unless he was accessory to the stranger's property being taken. The case thus stated, presents the single question, whether a creditor or plaintiff in an execution is bound to refund to the purchaser the price of property sold under execution, when the title proves defective; or, in other words, is a creditor, who barely pursues his legal remedy, without controlling in any way, the acts of the sheriff, bound, by an implied warranty, to make good the title of goods or chattels sold under the execution? It is somewhat singular, that sheriffs and sales under execution should exist in our code of laws for so many centuries, and that wherever such sales exist, this question might, in the ordinary course of things, so frequently occur, and yet there should be so little said in the books on this subject; for, in the search made by this court, which is not very inconsiderable, we have not been able to find a single adjudicated case on the point. We have, therefore, been led to take it up measurably on principle, and examine and adjudicate as the reason of the case may guide us. In such case, the sheriff's return that he has collected so much of the plaintiff's judgment, or that he has sold property of the defendant to that amount, and taken bond, etc., can not be set aside by a decree in equity, and is consequently a perpetual bar to the creditor's suing out another execution for it. It would be hazarding too much, to say that all goods sold under execution, passed without any warranty of title, and that, in every instance, the purchaser runs the risk of title, and can have no redress for the loss of his money. On the contrary, we have no doubt that there is a responsibility somewhere, to which he may resort, in case his title proves defective. If such liability exists, it must either be against the creditor (as the court below has decided in this case), or against the debtor, whose debt is discharged by the sale, or against the sheriff who seized and made the sale. And first, what is the situation of the debtor? By his own act in creating the debt, and then refusing to discharge it, he is guilty of a wrong upon the creditor, which subjects him to legal process and the sentence of the constituted authorities of his country, that he shall pay the debt. The sheriff, with the judicial process in his hand, seeks his estate, and perhaps acting honestly and innocently, takes, by mistake, the estate of another and exposes it to sale. By the act of sale and the return of the officer, his debt is discharged, his wrong against his creditor is purged, and the creditor is estopped by the return from again resorting to the judgment. To the judgment, and also the proceeding under the execution, both he and the creditor are parties, and while that remains in force, each is concluded by the return, as was decided by this court in the case of Smith v. Hornback, Reed and others.FNa1 From this process and this mistaken act of the sheriff, the debtor receives a benefit direct; his debt is discharged, and the money of the purchaser is paid, laid out and expended for his benefit. It may, indeed, be said, that the proceedings against him are in invitum, and that, from that circumstance, his request that the money should be so laid out, can not be presumed, and, therefore, that an action for money paid, laid out and expended, could not be sustained. To this it may be responded, that if the promise can not be presumed, so that assumpsit may be maintained, he is under a strong moral claim, which may be enforced in equity.. FNa1. The case of Smith vs. Hornback and Reed was decided at the fall term 1821,?? and may be considered as a leading case; but I was prohibited from publishing it, because it contained no principle which was not contained in some case in print. It was referred to in the case of Small and Carr vs. Hodgen, decided at the next term  (1 Litt. Rep., 17), which last case decides the same principle. *3 When we examine the case of the sheriff, his attitude of responsibility is still more strong. He is bound to execute process of arrest on the body, at his peril. Hence it is said, that if he apprehends a wrong person, even though he is induced to do so by the deceit and falsehood of the person so apprehended, yet an action lies against him. In like manner he is bound to execute a fieri facias correctly, and at his peril must know that the property seized belongs to the debtor. If he takes that of a stranger, even though he is directed to do so, he is responsible to that stranger in an action of trespass, detinue or trover. He is the agent of the law, placed between debtor and creditor, undertaking to levy the creditor's execution on nothing but the estate of the debtor. The purchaser, then, has the right to presume that he has done his duty correctly, and to infer from the office, the execution and the sale, that he buys a good title, and if he does not, that the sheriff has so far violated his duty, as to deceive him. The exhibition and sale of property by an individual, as his own, is deemed sufficient in law to raise an implied warranty of title. Why, then, may not the acts of a sheriff, who vends property which he represents to the world he has correctly seized and sold, be deemed equally sufficient to raise an implied warranty of title? If we examine the case of the creditor, he is more remote from?? liability, in reason, than either the debtor or sheriff. Compelled by the refusal of the debtor to do him justice, he barely resorts to the means of coercion which the law furnishes him. Embarrassed and imbecile would be the remedy, if he is construed to warrant all the estate of the debtor, which the officer of the law shall seize and sell. The return of the execution satisfied, extinguishes and bars the judgment. In this case, he must be without further remedy. His judgment is discharged at law. He is compelled to take the bond of the purchaser in lieu of his judgment, and the return of such sale and bond taken, releases the debtor; and a perpetual injunction in chancery has, in this case, precluded him from using that bond. The decree of the chancellor has not, and can not operate upon the record of the suit at common law, so as to remove this bar, and again let loose his execution. The two records are separate, and the power of the two courts distinct. It has been decided by this court, in the case of Banks v Shain (Littell's S. C. 451), that the chancellor can not set aside a verdict and judgment at common law, but must operate upon the fears or the interest of the adverse party, by proceedings in personam, to procure his assent to the new trial. Nor can he have more power to reach the return of the sheriff, in a common law record, and wipe out the bar, and set the execution again into operation. It is true, in this state, the powers of a court of law and chancery are blended in the same person, entered on the same record, and performed on the same juridical days; but yet the powers, to other purposes, must be kept as separate as if the tribunals were distinct and separate; and no more authority exists in the chancellor to deface the record of a common law suit, than if that record belonged to a different court, and was in the keeping of another officer. Hence, a perpetual injunction leaves the common law record in force; but, for equitable reasons, ties up the hands of the plaintiff in that court from carrying it into effect, under pain of personal punishment. *4 It is said, however, that the consideration of the sale bond given by the creditor, has utterly failed, and this gives him a right to relief. It is true, a failure of consideration frequently gives right to relief; but that relief ought to be granted against the party from whom the consideration moved. If the creditor is allowed to collect and receive the amount of this bond, what did he give for it? Certainly not the slave. He receives it as in lieu of his original debt, and as the consideration due to him for a counter consideration, which had previously passed from him to the debtor. For this bond he has surrendered his judgment and released the demand against the debtor, through the instrumentality of the sheriff, who has taken this bond to the creditor, and the law has compelled him to take it. He never had the negro, and never sold him, and therefore the purchaser, if the consideration has failed, must look to those who passed to him that deceptive consideration, or those for whose benefit it was passed, and not to him from whom it did not come. Although we have remarked the silence of the English books on this subject, which might be expected frequently to occur, yet this silence is not entire, and one authority is found which supports this opinion. Dalton, in his Office of Sheriff, page 146, after treating of the high responsibilities of the sheriff when executing a fieri facias, adds, "If the sheriff shall return his writ, that he taken so much goods of the defendant's, and that he hath denarios illos paratos ad reddendum, to the plaintiff," and the value be recovered of him by a stranger, "then," adds the author, "is the sheriff at a double mischief; for although the value of the goods be recovered against the sheriff or his officer, by the owner of the goods, yet the plaintiff in the action may, within the year after execution done, have a scire facias upon the judgment and return made by the sheriff, and thereby shall compel the sheriff to bring the money into court; and after the year, the plaintiff may have an action of debt against the sheriff, for it, if he be not otherwise ordered by the court where the judgment is depending." If this authority is to be taken as law, it is decisive of this question, and clearly shows that although the value of the goods sold under a fieri facias, be recovered of the plaintiff, yet the right of the plaintiff to the money is not thereby impaired. If the contrary doctrine be true, that the creditor is responsible for the validity of the title, he could not be entitled to the money, after that title had failed by a suit against the sheriff, which is the case put by the author. Nor do we conceive that the circumstance of a sale bond being taken, and the money being in transitu, and not in fact paid, varies the question. The bond of the purchaser, and the return of the officer that he has sold and taken such bond, completely discharge the judgment and stand in lieu of it, and as between the creditor, is as complete a discharge, while it remains in force, as the return that the money was made and ready to render. *5 For these reasons, the decree of the court below is deemed erroneous, and must be reversed. But Browning, the debtor, is now before the court, and the question arises, what redress shall be given against him? We have said that the defendant in error has a claim in conscience against him, and the only doubt whether a decree ought or ought not to be rendered against him, is, because it may be contended that the remedy is at law. If any remedy exists at law, it can not be an action on an implied warranty of title; for no warranty can be presumed to be made by him, of the title of the slave, when he denies that he was instrumental in the sale, or that he ever represented the slave to be his, and there is no proof that he did. In such case, his bare defalcation in permitting a judgment to exist against him unpaid, is the only part he has taken, and this agency is too remote to raise an implied warranty of title. The same may be said of the action of implied assumpsit for money paid, laid out and expended for his use. True, a promise in such action will be implied, frequently, when the defendant has always resisted every acknowledgment that the money belongs to the plaintiff. But the true principle on which the action is based, in such cases, is, that the money was expended for the benfit of the defendant, through his immediate instrumentality; and here the instrumentality employed by Browning, was his bare failure in the non-payment of his debt, which is too remote to become the base of an implied assumpsit, whatever his case might be, had he been shown to be immediately instrumental in causing the property of a stranger to be sold in payment of his debt. But still it would be iniquity, to say that he should avail himself of this advantage, and leave the innocent purchaser a loser; and it is in cases where right exists without remedy at law, that a court of equity applies its helping hand. That court, when any legal advantage is gained by one, which he may keep, and that advantage has resulted to him by operation of law, in lieu of a former claim or advantage over a third person, will relieve the case by applying the doctrine of substitution, and clothe him who is the loser, for the benefit of him who has gained, with the rights which such gainer first had against such third person. So, here the creditor, M'Ghee, has gained his money against Ellis, in lieu of the judgment which he held against Browning, or so much as the price of the slave amounted to. It will, therefore, be equitable to place Ellis in the same attitude, as to Browning, in which M'Ghee formerly stood, by giving him a decree to that amount against Browning. But as this does not appear to have been his object in filing his bill, and it can only be granted him under the prayer for general relief, and his main design seems to have been to get clear of the sale bond, from which he can not be relieved, to force such a decree upon him may not only surprise him, but operate to his prejudice. We have seen that, prima facie, the sheriff is liable, unless he shall have some defence which now can not be adjudged of, as he is not before the court; and it may be to the interest of Ellis, owing to the circumstances of Browning, to dismiss his bill and elect to proceed against the sheriff, and such a decree against Browning may bar him of that election; for it is a general rule, that where a party has a right to elect to proceed against either of two other persons for the same demand, and the liability of these two is precisely equal, a recovery of satisfaction against one, extinguishes the right to proceed against the other, as it would be unjust to permit a recovery of a double satisfaction for the same demand. It will, therefore, be proper for the court below, on the return of the cause, to permit Ellis then to make his election, whether to proceed to such a decree against Browning, or to dismiss his bill without costs, for the purpose of saving his recourse against the sheriff, if any he has. *6 We will barely remark, that so far as we have laid down any principle in this opinion, screening the creditor from any liability to make good property sold under execution, or the debtor from becoming liable to an action at law in favor of the purchaser, for the price of the property sold, we would not be understood as applying it to cases where either the creditor or debtor has been immediately instrumental in causing the property of a stranger to be sold, and thus been the cause of deceiving the purchaser. Such cases may stand on different grounds from this, where the sheriff took his course without the direct agency of either, and the decision of them is reserved until they occur. But, in this case, a majority of the court, Judge Owsley dissenting, are of opinion that there is no responsibility resting on the creditor, and that he is entitled, as against the purchaser, to the benefit of the sale bond with security. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below to dissolve the injunction and dismiss the bill, as to M'Ghee, with damages and costs, and to permit the complainant in that court to take his decree against the defendant, Browning, or to discontinue his suit as to him, as he may choose. Ky.App. 1823. McGhee v. Ellis 4 Litt. 244, 14 Ky. 244, 1823 WL 1267 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 124 END OF DOCUMENT
