(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 360,  10 Ky. 360 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1097 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Moore's Heirs v. Fauntleroy et ux. Apr. 21, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE MERCER CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 167 95 Contracts 95II Construction and Operation 95II(A) General Rules of Construction 95k167 k. Existing Law as Part of Contract. Most Cited  Cases A parol contract made at the time when heirs, under the common law, were not bound by the contracts of their ancestors, unless expressly named, cannot be enforced against heirs. Costs 102 k 80 102 Costs 102II Persons Entitled 102k78 Parties of Record 102k80 k. Nominal and Unnecessary Parties. Most Cited  Cases If a party is brought into court, against whom no decree can be made, he is entitled to costs. Descent and Distribution 124 k 119(1) 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(C) Debts of Intestate and Incumbrances on Property 124k119 Nature and Grounds of Liability of Heirs and  Distributees 124k119(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases As at common law an heir was not bound by the contracts or frauds of the ancestor unless expressly named a parol contract cannot bind the heir. Descent and Distribution 124 k 126 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(C) Debts of Intestate and Incumbrances on Property 124k125 Liabilities on Descent of Real Property 124k126 k. Debts Enforceable Against Heirs in General.  Most Cited Cases Where a contract of an ancestor with a certain person for locating lands for the benefit of such person, and to procure a pre-emption warrant therefor, does not expressly bind the heir of such ancestor, relief for the breach of such contract must be sought against the personal representative, and out of the personal estate of the ancestor, and not against the heir. Descent and Distribution 124 k 139 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(C) Debts of Intestate and Incumbrances on Property 124k137 Action Against Heirs, Distributees, or Purchasers 124k139 k. Rights of Action. Most Cited  Cases On a contract by an ancestor for locating lands, redress cannot be had against his heir before a legal estate is vested in the heir, but the remedy must be brought against the personal representatives. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: In this case the following facts appear to be satisfactorily established, to-wit: That in the years 1779 and 1780, Samuel Moore, the ancestor of the appellant here, and complainant below, and Harrod, ancestor of the female appellee, who, with her husband, was a defendant below, resided near together, and being kinsmen, were in habits of intimacy. That on the 6th of November, 1779, Moore obtained from the court of commissioners a certificate of a settlement and a pre-emption adjoining; and on the 24th of June, 1780, entered his certificate of settlement with the surveyor. *2 That on the 20th of May, 1780, said Moore entered in the name of Harrod, or Harrod himself entered a treasury warrant of 1,000 acres, including and around said settlement. That on the 18th of July, 1780, said Moore having obtained a pre-emption warrant, either himself or some other person for him, entered the same with the surveyor adjoining his settlement, as will be seen in the report of this case when formerly before the court, as to some other parties, in 1 Marsh. 140. That in July, 1780, Moore went on a campaign and was killed by the Indians on that expedition, in the month of August, 1780; and James Harrod survived him many years. The appellant, the heir of Moore, was born late in the year 1779, and of course arrived at the age of twenty-one years in the year 1800. After the death of Moore, the ancestor, his widow, jointly with Harrod, administered on his estate. On the 19th of November, 1780, Harrod gave a writing, signed and sealed by him, binding himself to convey to the decedent, as if then living, in its obligatory part, "a good and lawful right to 500 acres of land, being half the pre-emption I laid a warrant on for said Moore, or half the land I shall obtain by virtue of said warrant, so soon as a patent shall come out for said land." On the 9th of April, 1781, Harrod caused a survey to be made on said treasury warrant of 1,000 acres, in his own name, and a patent issued to him. But previously, on the 13th March, 1781, he withdrew the warrant, as entered previous to the death of Moore, and re-entered it on the same land which was covered by Moore's pre-emption entry, and that was the same ground which was surveyed and patented. On the 17th December, 1781, said Harrod in person, and at the same time presenting an order from the administratrix, withdrew the entry of Moore on pre-emption, warrant. Whether the order thus presented was genuine, is a point contested. He kept this warrant in his possession till the guardian of the appellant, 1788, obtained it from him, after urging him to return it. And the guardian, supposing that the former withdrawal by the administrators was valid, returned it on the same land, and surveyed it and obtained a grant of modern date. This claim thus patented, was decided to be invalid, when opposed to 500 acres of Harrod's treasury warrant on the same ground, in the reported case before cited, Harrod having sold and conveyed that quantity to innocent purchasers in the year 1785. The bill filed in this instance, claimed relief against these purchasers to their half, and also against Harrod's heiress for the other half, and if there should be a failure in any part of this relief, compensation for the deficit against the heirs of Harrod. This compensation against Harrod's heiress is what seems to be left for this court to decide. The court below having decreed a conveyance for the half unsold by Harrod in his lifetime, and then dismissed the bill. There can be no doubt that Harrod was conversant and acquainted with all the acts of Moore, in acquiring his settlement and pre-emption, and that he knew the ground exactly which was intended to be located by him. After the acquisition of the certificate, and before any entry with the surveyor was made, Moore occasioned a private survey to be made to identify the ground and preclude others from embracing??it until he procured a pre-emption warrant. With this survey Harrod was acquainted, and on this ground or that part of it covered by the pre-emption, as thus demarked, Harrod attempted to locate his treasury warrant. Harrod appears to have had the direction of the surveying of the settlement of Moore, and at the same surveyed his treasury warrant on the ground embraced by the private survey of the pre-emption. The treasury warrant, as located at the death of Moore, occupied partially, if not entirely, different ground from that on which it was placed by Harrod, in his location, after the death of Moore, and it was placed on its first position by arrangement between Moore and Harrod. Besides, this withdrawal and relocation was after the writing executed by Harrod. It is now contended on the part of Moore's heirs, that a clear contract is proved between Moore and Harrod with regard to the treasury warrant--that it belonged to Moore or if it was not actually paid for, it was first located for Moore's benefit to protect the ground from appropriation until a pre-emption warrant was gotten;--and that Harrod having relocated the treasury warrant, and attempted to destroy the pre-emption warrant of Moore, and then giving his bond for the half after Moore's death, and selling the residue, was a fraud and a breach of his contract, in a fraudulent manner, which now ought to subject his heiress to a decree for compensation for the land sold, and which was decided by the former decree of this court to be irrecoverable. *3 We have not thought it necessary, from the conflicting mass of the testimony, to ascertain precisely the terms of the contract between Moore and Harrod, with relation to the treasury warrant. Nor do we conceive it necessary to decide how far the subsequent acts of Harrod, with regard to both the treasury and pre-emption warrants, viewed either with or without relation to that contract, amount to a fraud. For however definite the contract may be, and precise its bearings--however gross the fraud of Harrod in his conduct may be, the liability of his heiress to render compensation for a breach of that contract, and to remunerate the injuries occasioned by the fraud, must be precisely the same as if there was no contract and no fraud. The law as it stood when this contract was made, and until every act of Harrod, relied on as constituting the fraud, was done, did not subject the heiress either to the contracts or fraud of the ancestor, unless the heiress was expressly named in the contract and bound by its terms. It is true that Harrod expressly bound his heirs in the written contract alluded to, made after the death of Moore, and binding him to convey one-half the treasury warrant; but it is equally true, that a conveyance, in fulfilment of this contract, was decreed by the court, and actually made by Harrod's heiress, and no claim on that bond is set up for compensation. The bill does not claim the benefit of this writing, but sets up the former parol contract as giving, both in point of time and quantity of land, a superior claim to the whole, and if compensation is given at all, it must be on account of that contract, and Harrod's subsequent acts in violation of it, as Harrod ought not to be permitted to change its terms or narrow it, after the death of Moore, during the infancy of his heir, by the written contract. It is not, nor can it be pretended that Harrod expressly bound his heirs by this agreement. It therefore follows, that against his heirs no decree can be rendered, giving damages for the breach. Nor will any of Harrod's acts, done at that day, amounting to a tort, descnding upon his heiress, render her liable out of the assets descended. The conveyance of one-half the land had been decreed. This was all the heiress had, and all she was bound to account for. Further relief must be sought against the personal representative and out of the personal estate of Harrod, which the heir of Moore has not joined in the suit. The court below, therefore, did right in refusing a decree against the heiress. At common law, an heir was not bound by the contracts or fraud of the ancestor, unless expressly named--a parol contract therefore can not bind the heir. After the death of one of the parties to a parol agreement, and during the infancy of his heir, the survivor can not be permitted to change or modify it by writing. In cases of fraud or breach of contract, where the heir is not bound, redress must be had against the personal representative of the tort feazor. *4 There is another contract, set up in the bill, between Harrod and Moore, with regard to the location of lands near Green river, by Moore for Harrod, one-half of which was to belong to Moore. Although there is proof shewing the service rendered, yet as there are no titles shewn, on which a decree against Harrod's heiress can operate, the same obstacle lies against a decree for compensation. We have not thought it necessary to decide on the propriety of the rejection of evidence by the court below, which was excepted to. Because the evidence, if admitted, could not still prove the heiress liable. On a contract for locating lands, redress can not be had against the heir before a legal estate is vested in the heir; remedy must be sought against personal representatives. The decision of the court, dismissing the bill after the conveyance was made, is also assigned for error. Although this is an informal mode of disposing of the suit, wherein part of the prayer of the bill was granted; yet as it clearly appears of record that the whole object of the bill, so far as it could operate against the heiress of Harrod, to-wit, a conveyance of all the remainder of the land, was obtained, we can not disturb the decree on this account. On a bill brought for specific execution of a contract, a decree had and a conveyance made, though it is irregular to dismiss the bill, yet the decree dismissing the bill will not, for that cause, be reversed. The decree of that court with regard to costs in favor of Harrod's heiress, is excepted to in this court. Although this court has exercised a revising power over decisions in chancery with respect to costs, yet we can not conceive that this power ought to be extended too far. It this case it appears Moore had the possession of the land decreed to him. The heiress of Harrod does not, in the answer, question his right to it, but alleges that a conveyance was made by her ancestor long before suit brought. This not appearing to be the case, one was decreed and accepted without resistance on either side. It is evident that the whole controversy in this suit, on which the complainant below expended, and caused the defendants to expend great costs, has arisen out of the complainant's claim to the value of the remaining half of the 1,000 acres covered by both warrants, and the claim for services rendered in locating Green river lands; during all which controversy the complainant had not one party before the court, against whom this decree for compensation could be rendered. For this reason we can not say that the decree for costs is not equitable. If a party against whom no decree can be made is brought before the court he should recover costs. The decree must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Bibb, for plaintiff; Hardin, for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1820. Moore's Heirs v. Fauntleroy 3 A.K.Marsh. 360, 10 Ky. 360, 1821 WL 1097 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
