(Cite as: 5 Litt. 314,  15 Ky. 314 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1439 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Garner's Administrator v. Strode. Jun. 8, 1824. *1 FROM THE CLARKE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 456(5) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k456 Costs 162k456(5) k. Individual liability of executor or  administrator. Most Cited Cases Where an administrator revives a bill brought by his intestate, if it is dismissed, costs should not be decreed against him individually. Equity 150 k 442 150 Equity 150XI Bill of Review 150k442 k. Nature and scope of remedy. Most Cited Cases Where a bill was dismissed for want of prosecution, but the clerk, in drawing the order, drew it as a decree upon the merits, the mistake must be corrected by petition or bill of review, before the complainant can avail himself of it in another cause. Injunction 212 k 1811 212 Injunction 212VIII Wrongful Injunction 212VIII(A) Nature and Grounds of Liability 212k1811 k. In general. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 212k257) Where an injunction is prayed for, but none is granted, and the bill is dismissed, damages cannot be given. HANSON, TAUL and TODD for appellant; no attorney for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Garner, the intestate of the present appellant, who is his administrator, being indebted for rent to Strode, was subjected to a distress warrant, and gave a replevin bond, and then filed his bill, alleging that he had paid part of the debt, and had demands against Strode sufficient to extinguish the residue, which he could not assert at law, because Strode resided without the commonwealth. In a suit in chancery, with injunction, by an administrator, if it is dissolved, the damages and costs can not be decreed against him individually. The court below dismissed his bill, and awarded ten per centum damages on the amount of the replevin bond, and costs of suit. On a bill praying for an injunction, without one ever having been granted or issued, being dismissed, damages can not be given. It is evident that the decree must be reversed; because, although the bill prays for an injunction, yet none was ever granted or issued. Of course, no ten per centum could be given. Besides, the costs ought not to have been decreed, as well as the damages, against the appellant, in his own right; and we conceive the case is one in which no costs ought to be given against an administrator. Garner had filed the bill before his death, and his administrator finding the suit pending, revived it, and pursued it to the end. Costs are sometimes given against administrators and executors, who have sued or might have sued in their own right; but where the suit is or must be in their representative character alone, as this is, the rule is otherwise, and, therefore, no costs ought to have been given. *2 Relief denied because the complainant was barred by a decree rendered against him in a contest between the same parties, on the same demand. We also conceive, that the demands against Strode, set up in the bill, are substantially supported by the proof, notwithstanding the denial of Strode's answer, and that a set-off ought to take place and a perpetual injunction on the final hearing to be awarded, unless it is prevented by a circumstance which we will now notice. Strode amended his answer, and pleads and relies on a former bill with injunction, brought for the same demands, against the present replevin bonds, and a decree rendered therein, in its terms dismissing the bill upon the merits. Upon examining that record, it is evidently for the same demands, against the same demand of Strode, and the same points were in issue as in the present case, and the decree does appear to be one dismissing the bill on the merits, on the hearing of the cause. That such a decree ought to bar the present demand, if unimpeached, is too evident to need proof. But to avoid this decree, the appellant has put in a special replication, averring and specially charging, that in fact the counsel for the complainant in the former case, were pressed into the trial unprepared, and had abandoned the cause, and the court gave the order, in fact, to dismiss the suit for the want of prosecution, and that the clerk, by mistake in drawing the orders of the court, drew it up as a decree upon the mer??its, and it thus passed unnoticed until the term ended. And to support this replication, the appellant has proved, by the testimony of witnesses, that when the cause was called for trial, the counsel then employed, moved either to continue the cause, or to lay it over until their client should appear, he then being absent, to make out a good cause for a continuance; but failing in the motion, the counsel, there being two employed, abandoned the cause, declaring they could not support the cause under its then state of preparation, and the court thereupon directed it to be dismissed for the want of prosecution. A day or two afterwards, the complainant appeared and presented a petition and affidavit, praying the court to set aside the dismission, and to reinstate and continue the cause, and the motion was overruled. The terms of this petition and affidavit, evidently treat the dismission which had taken place, as one for the want of prosecution, and do not apply to dismission on the merits. Whether the complainant now is entitled to avoid the bar under this state of proof, is the only question on which the merits must turn. It is insisted, that although the chancellor, as well as a court of common law, can not set aside his decrees on motion, or amend them where there is nothing to amend by, after the term is over; yet that a chancellor, on a proper issue made up for that purpose, can correct the decrees of former terms, wrongfully entered, either through fraud or mistake, and can relieve against their consequences, and ought to have done so. *3 That the decree pleaded at a bar, was entered on the merits, by mistake, when it was only intended to be a dismission for the want of prosecution, will not avail the complainant in avoiding its effect, as long as it stands in full force. The merits of a decree can not be collaterally brought into question; it must be by a direct proceeding by petition or bill of review. A chancellor may, on a proper issue made up for that purpose, correct a decree of a former term, wrongfully entered, either through fraud or mistake, and can relieve against its consequences. Whether the evidence and facts proved in the cause, would be sufficient to correct this decree, and change it from a decree on the merits to a simple dismission, without hearing, on a proper application by petition or bill of review, we need not now determine, because the question is not presented to us in that shape; but we lay it down as a general rule, that if such correction does ever take place, it must be by direct proceeding, in that cause in which its record is made right, and that the matter which may be then held sufficient to change or correct, can not be held good as an avoidance in another case. If the relief could be thus granted, both records would be complete, one presenting a decree against, and the other for the complainant, on the same merits, which is absured. To avoid the effect of a decree in another cause, where its merits are collaterally brought into question, can not be permitted. The first record must be first changed, and then its collateral operation will not be injurious. However, strong the equity of the appellant may be, the bar must operate while it exists unaltered and unreversed. The decree on the other points, however, must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that a decree be there entered, conformable to this opinion. Ky.App. 1824. Garner's Adm'r v. Strode 5 Litt. 314, 15 Ky. 314, 1824 WL 1439 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
