(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 248,  21 Ky. 248 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1540 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Chaney v. Cooke. Jun. 26, 1827. *1 Mortgages. Injunctions. Practice in Chancery. Interest. Costs. APPEAL FROM THE NICHOLAS CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Chattel Mortgages 76 k 293 76 Chattel Mortgages 76X Redemption 76k293 k. Right to Redeem in General. Most Cited Cases Complainant mortgaged a slave to defendant to secure a loan, but the slave of his own volition subsequently came into the possession of complainant, against whom defendant recovered judgment in detinue. Complainant filed his bill against defendant to enjoin the judgment, and to be permitted to redeem. Held that, if the slave in the possession of complainant was not surrendered to be sold, and the money due on the mortgage could not be got from complainant, the bill should be dismissed, and the injunction restraining execution on the judgment should be dissolved. Chattel Mortgages 76 k 300 76 Chattel Mortgages 76X Redemption 76k300 k. Actions to Redeem and for Accounting. Most Cited Cases Where a mortgagee has a judgment at law, there need be no decree in personam against the mortgagor praying for an injunction against the judgment at law, and to be permitted to redeem, but the amount to be paid should be fixed by the decree, and, if paid by a certain day, the injunction perpetuated, and the defendant's claim released, and, if not paid, the property should be sold. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The complainant borrowed of the defendant a sum in paper of the Bank of the Commonwealth, and delivered a negro slave, as a security therefor, by way of mortgage. The slave staid with the defendant two years and three months, and then by some means came to the possession of the complainant; against whom the defendant brought detinue for the slave and recovered a judgment, to enjoin which this bill was filed, alleging the contract was usurious, and praying that the amount loaned might be scaled, and the hire deducted therefrom, and the slave reclaimed; which was decreed by the court, and from that decree the defendant has appealed. Judgment for a slave, recovered by the mortgagee. It is unnecessary to say any thing about the controversy between the parties, as to whether this was a mortgage or conditional sale. For the writing, as well as the parol proof demonstate it to be a mortgage, and the decree, in amount, is more favorable to the appellant than it ought to have been, and would not be disturbed, if the court had ended the controversy, by providing for carrying the decree into effect certainly, and had not left it to contingencies, to be settled by the parties in pais. Transaction held to be a mortgage. First, there is a positive decree against the complainant, in favor of the defendant for the balance due, which the defendant did not ask, and did not need, as his judgment at law was security enough. *2 When there is a judgment at law, there need be no decree in personam. It is next decreed that if the complainant should pay it by a future day not in term time, deducting the costs, then the boy should be redeemed, and the injunction be made perpetual. And if he failed, then the mortgage should be foreclosed and the slave sold, and a commissioner appointed for that purpose. Erroneous decree of the circuit court. Who was to see whether these contingencies had, or had not happened, and determine whether the injunction had become perpetual, and the slave redeemed; or whether the mortgage was to be foreclosed and the slave sold, is not told, and can not be found out. This all was the business of the court itself. Directions for the decree, and mode of proceedings, when mortgagee having judgment at law, mortgagor comes with his bill for injunction and to redeem the property. The amount to be paid by the complainant should be fixed and ascertained by the decree, and provision made, that if that sum with costs, was paid or tendered by a certain day in the next term, then the injunction should be perpetuated and the slave redeemed, and the defendant's claim released. If on the approach of that day, the complainant should show that the money was paid, or that the money was tendered and refused, and the money brought into court, then such decree should be entered as promised by the first interlocutory decree. If, on the contrary, the money should not be paid or tendered, the court should direct the slave to be surrendered to a commissioner, by the complainants, to be sold, for the purpose of discharging the balance which would be equitable, and on a failure, that the injunction be dissolved, and the bill dismissed. If this surrender was made, then to perpetuate the injunction, and decree, and sale according. But if neither money nor slave could be got from the complainant, then all relief should be refused, by dissolving the injunction, and dismissing the bill. As the decree must be reversed for the purpose of coming at a proper decree, we must notice an error committed by the court below, against the complainant. Scaled by the rate of exchange proved at the date of the loan, the $300 in notes, were equal to $196 08, in specie. The interest thereon, while the defendant held, the slave, is $26 46--amounting to $222 54. The hire of the slave for the same time, as agreed by the bill and answer, was equal to $5 per month, making for the twenty-seven months, $135; which, deducted from the principal and legal interest on the loan, due at the same time, leaves only $87 54 due the defendant, bearing interest from the 25th December, 1823, till paid; when the court below has decreed him $116. Paper currency being scaled, the value of it bears interest till paid. The complainant will be entitled to his costs in chancery, and the defendant his costs at law, as there is a balance due to him. When these are set off, one against the other, the balance, if any, ought to be set down in favor of him who has the excess, and in this mode the account ought to be settled. *3 Costs allowed complainant, incurred in his suit to redeem and enjoin mortgagor's judgment at law. The decree must therefore be reversed, and the cause remanded for such decree and proceedings as may accord with this opinion. But as there has been substantial error detected on both sides, each party must bear his own costs in this court. Substantial error appearing on both sides; costs denied in this court. Wickliffe, for appellant; Triplett and Depew, for appellees. Ky.App. 1827. Chaney v. Cooke 5 T.B.Mon. 248, 21 Ky. 248, 1827 WL 1540 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
