(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 618,  10 Ky. 618 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1190 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Isaac Patterson v. Carneal's Heirs. Oct. 4, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BRECKINRIDGE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 224 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k224 k. Sale in Parcels. Most Cited  Cases A sheriff's sale under execution of an entire tract of land, when a portion thereof was sufficient to satisfy the debt, was without authority and void. Execution 161 k 226 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k226 k. Conduct of Sale in General. Most Cited  Cases A sale by the sheriff of more land than is sufficient for the satisfaction of the judgment and execution is void. Mortgages 266 k 137 266 Mortgages 266III Construction and Operation 266III(C) Property Mortgaged, and Estates of Parties Therein 266k136 Estates and Interests of Parties 266k137 k. Under Mortgages in General. Most Cited  Cases A mortgagee holds the legal estate in the mortgaged premises even after a decree of sale on a bill for foreclosure, and may sell the same. Deeds 120 k 26 120 Deeds 120I Requisites and Validity 120I(B) Form and Contents of Instruments 120k26 k. Necessity and Sufficiency of Writing in General.  Most Cited Cases The word "convey," in a deed, amounts to a grant, and passes the title. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: On the trial of this suit, in the court below, (it being an action of ejectment), after the plaintiff had given in evidence a title derived from a patent to Thomas Carneal, and had proved that the defendant resided within the bounds of their title, the defendant gave in evidence an execution upon a decree in chancery for costs, in the same court, with its return by the sheriff, of a sale of the same premises by the sheriff, and a sheriff's deed to the defendant, the execution being against the lessors of the plaintiff. Whereupon the court, at the instance of the plaintiff's counsel, instructed the jury that the sheriff's sale and deed were void, and this forms the first question for the decision of this court. The apparent illegality in this sale is, that the execution was for the sum of seventy-four dollars, twenty-three cents and one-half only, and the tract of land sold was four thousand acres for the sum of three hundred and seventy dollars. By the acts of assembly subjecting lands to the payment of debts, the sheriff is authorized to sell no more than will pay the debt and costs. As an apology for doing so the sheriff has stated that he first offered the land for sale by asking who would pay off the amount of the execution for the least quantity of the land; but on these terms he obtained no bid. He then exposed the whole tract to sale to the highest bidder, and it was cried off to the defendant at the sum stated. This apology does not shew that he did his duty in this respect. For the course he adopted was not the proper one. It was his duty to offer the tract to the highest bidder, and after the price offered amounted to the sum in the execution, then to have directed the bidders, to bid so much less in land, laid off at some place specified by the officer, leaving both, that sold and that unsold, in convenient form. It is not easy to conjecture that he would not have succeeded in this mode in selling less of the land for the sum due in the execution. This irregularity of the sheriff, however, we do not conceive would affect the title of the purchaser, who, in this rerespect, appears to have had no agency over the matter. But although a purchaser ought not to have his title impeached by irregularities of the officer, in which he has no concern, yet we conceive a purchaser is bound to look to the authority under which an officer acts, and if that fails in the officer, the purchaser can acquire no title. In the present case, neither the statute nor the execution authorized a sale of more than was sufficient to satisfy the execution, and an attempt to do so, is indubitably a void act, as to the excess sold beyond what is sufficient, and renders it impossible to see how much would have been sufficient to answer the purpose. Of course the whole sale was radically defective and the court below decided correctly in determining it void. *2 Sheriff selling lands under execution is not authorized to sell more of a tract than will satisfy the debt, if he does so he acts without authority and the sale is void. It has however been contended, in argument, that this doctrine would be a departure from the course of decision heretofore delivered in this court, by which sheriff's sales have been supported in favor of the title of the purchaser at such sales. It is true the policy of the law, as well as justice to purchasers, require that such sales should not be impeached for slight irregularities in the officer, not procured to be done by the purchaser. But this is not a case of that kind. And the doctrine now advanced may be reconciled with the former decisions of this court, by attending to the distinction between a sale without authority, and one where there is an uathority??, not strictly pursued. In the former cose no title will pass, while in the latter the purchaser will acquire a title, and the party injured by the erroneous acts of the officer in executing his authority, will be left to his remedy against the officer for that injury. This case we conceive comes within the first class above described and therefore the sale can not be sustained. A clear distinction exists between an act done without authority, and an authority informally exercised. In the declaration of ejectment demises were laid, severally, in the names of several lessors, among which was one in the name of William May, and another in the name of James Coleman. After the court had instructed the jury that the plaintiff was entitled to recover, the sheriff's sale notwithstanding, at the instance of the plaintiff's counsel, the counsel for the defendant demanded of the court to say on which demise the plaintiff was entitled to recover. The court decided that the recovery ought to be had on the demise of Coleman. To this opinion the defendant excepted and the jury found a verdict specially on the demise of Coleman, and for the defendants on the other demises. This decision of the court is now assigned for error. Whether the defendant can avail himself of this error, if it be one, procured on his own requisition--or whether that part of the verdict ought or ought not to be regarded, which points out specially on which demise the recovery is had, when it is evident that the nominal plaintiff, who, though fictitious, must for some purposes be considered as real, be entitled to recover on some one of the demises of several lessors who have thought proper to join in the action, we have not thought it necessary now to decide. For we concur with the court below in the opinion that the recovery ought to be had on the demise of James Coleman. Thomas Carneal, the patentee, in his lifetime, had conveyed the land in question, by mortgage, to William May, and the condition of that mortgage was forfeited by the non-payment of the money, it was intended to secure. May had filed his bill against the administrator and heirs of Carneal to foreclose the equity of redemption, and obtained a decree of foreclosure, and the appointment of commissioners to sell the estate in the Fayette circuit court. While the decree stood in this situation, the commissioners not having acted, May sold the benefit thereof to James Coleman and executed to him an instrument of writing to this effect, written upon a copy of the decree of foreclosure attested by the clerk, to-wit: *3 For and in consideration of the full amount specified in the foregoing decree, paid to me by James Coleman, in his individual capacity and not as administrator, I do hereby transfer, assign and convey to said James Coleman, in his own right, all my right, title, claim and interest, in the said decree, and all my right and title in and to the mortgage and mortgaged property therein specified, and do hereby authorize the said James Coleman, in my name and for me, to act in the premises as fully as I might or could do, if personally present, and to make use of my name in any legal manner that may be deemed necessary for the purpose of obtaining the amount of said decree. Given under my hand and seal this ninth day of May, 1812. WILLIAM MAY, (Seal.) The expressions used in this instrument, however informal and summary, certainly includes the mortgaged estate, of which the tract in question is part, and the words used, especially the term "convey," we conceive is in meaning and effect sufficient to answer the requisites of a grant at common law and under our statute concerning conveyances, and to carry with it the legal estate and vest it in the grantee. It has been contended, in argument, that this estate being then subject to the decree of the court and under its directions to be sold, could not be the subject of sale. The use of the "convey" is equivalent to a grant at common law and passes the title. Although this was the fact, the legal title under the mortgage rested in May and not in the court or commissioners, and we are not aware of any principle of law which prevented him from selling and conveying at that period as well as at any other. We therefore conceive that there is no error in the judgment of the court below, and that it must be affirmed with costs. A mortgage even after a decree of sale, holds the legal estate in the mortgaged premises and may sell it. Wickliffe, for appellants; Hardin, contra. Ky.App. 1821. Patterson v. Carneal's Heirs 3 A.K.Marsh. 618, 10 Ky. 618, 1821 WL 1190 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 208 END OF DOCUMENT
