(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 606,  10 Ky. 606 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1185 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Washington v. Thomas Arnold. Jun. 14, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE LOGAN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A call "to include the improvement" makes the improvement essential, and the survey must be so varied as to include the improvement, though the beginning be certain and the courses definite. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The appellant claims the land in controversy by the following certificate, of the county court, if it can be denominated a certificate, and not a mere entry on the records of the court: "Logan county sct., Dec. term, 1805. No. 1949.--Lewis Mawzy enters four hundred acres of land in Logan county on the waters of Red river; to begin at the northwest corner of an entry of five hundred acres made for the Bullitt seminary, which adjoins Philip Hooper's survey of 200 acres, which includes what is called Puntney's Grove, to run west from said beginning, thence south, thence east, thence north, so as to include the improvement and quantity in a square." The call in an entry "to include the improvement," renders the improvement an essential call, it must be shewn and the figure of the survey must be so varied as to include the improvement though the beginning be certain and the courses definite. It is not contended that the beginning, pointed out in this location, could not be found, upon using a reasonable degree of diligence. The claim to be adjoined, and the one which it in turn adjoins, is certain and fixed. To say nothing of defects in this claim, apparent on its face, the proof is silent as to the improvement. It is not identified or shown in any way. It is made an essential call, and being a sensible object, its position is material. The calls for course are definite, but the evident design of the locator is that they may yield or vary to include the improvement. For he is to run according to these courses, "so as include" that object. The word square taken in its strict import, does mean an equilateral as well as rectangular figure; but some times it is applied to one of four sides, with equal angles only. The length of the lines here is not given; they are to be varied by the call for the improvement, if necessary, which conduces to show that the locator designed a figure rectangular only, with unequal sides if the improvement should so require. No doubt if the settlement was shown in this case, the length of the lines and also the courses, might, and indeed must, be varied to include it. The appellant can not be permitted to dispense with this call and keep it out of sight, when he shall choose in any contest where the validity of his claim is in issue. We therefore agree with the court below that the want of this call must vitiate and destroy the claim, and that the appellant is entitled to no relief. *2 The decree is affirmed with costs. Bibb for appellant, Crittenden for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Washington v. Arnold 3 A.K.Marsh. 606, 10 Ky. 606, 1821 WL 1185 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
