(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 164,  21 Ky. 164 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1523 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Paul, &c. v. Rogers' Administrator. Paul, &c. v. Strickler. Jun. 14, 1827. *1 Practice. Exceptions to Depositions. Bills of Exceptions. Witnesses. Foreign Attachments. Agents. Judgments. Evidence. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 822(3) 228 Judgment 228XVII Foreign Judgments 228k814 Judgments of State Courts 228k822 Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228k822(3) k. Matters Concluded. Most Cited  Cases Where a principal, indebted to his agent, fails, the record of a judgment of another state in favor of the agent is prima facie proof of the debt, as against the principal's creditors, seeking to take funds of the principal out of the agent's hands. Principal and Agent 308 k 90(1) 308 Principal and Agent 308II Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities 308II(C) Lien of Agent 308k90 Lien 308k90(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a principal, indebted to his agent, fails, a creditor cannot take funds of the principal out of the agent's hands. The agent's equity as creditor is equal to the complainant's, and he must be allowed to keep possession until his demand is satisfied. Witnesses 410 k 98 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k91 Interest of Party or Other Person 410k98 k. Interest Arising from Particular Obligations  or Transactions. Most Cited Cases A debtor is not a competent witness for a creditor seeking to make his debt out of property claimed by a third person. Appeal and Error 30 k 203.2 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(B) Objections and Motions, and Rulings Thereon 30k202 Evidence and Witnesses 30k203.2 k. Depositions. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 30k203(2)) Objections to the admission of depositions cannot be raised for the first time on appeal. Appeal and Error 30 k 275 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(C) Exceptions 30k275 k. Necessity of Ruling on Exception. Most Cited  Cases Exceptions to depositions as incompetent evidence which do not appear to have been acted on by the court below will be regarded as waived by the court of appeals. Attachment 44 k 224 44 Attachment 44VII Proceedings to Support or Enforce 44k224 k. Actions by Plaintiff in Aid of Attachment. Most Cited Cases Debtor and Creditor 117T k 11 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk11 k. Creditors' Suit. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 109k48  Creditors' Suit) Where a bill in equity is filed to subject the debt of a third person to the payment of a creditor's claim by attachment, and such person prove that the debtor is also indebted to him in excess of his debt, the court will dismiss the bill without prejudice, since there is nothing on which its decree could operate, if granted. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 These two causes being similar in circumstances, by agreement are to be considered together. Allegations of the bill. The complainants, now defendants in error, filed each their bill, setting up demands due to them by William Paul of Pennsylvania, and alleging that he sent a large quantity of iron down the Ohio, by his brother James Paul, who sold part thereof to the keeper of the penitentiary of this state, and took the securities for the price thereof in his own name; but that James Paul was only the agent of William; and the debt is his in equity, and that he has failed in business, and they pray decrees liquidating their claims against William Paul, and a decree for a satisfaction thereof out of the moneys due from the keeper of the penitentiary. Against William Paul publication was had, and James Paul answered, asserting that his brother William was greatly indebted to him, and on his brother's failure, his creditors had attached the iron at Wheeling, on the river, and these attachments or one of them was compromised by paying out part of the iron in discharge of the claim; and that he, James then bought the residue of the iron at Wheeling, from William, at a certain price, and descended the river with it and made the sales. On this point the controversy has principally rested; James Paul has attempted to prove that William was really his debtor, and that he had purchased the iron at Wheeling, and therefore was entitled to its proceeds; and the complainants attempted to prove that the sale from William to James Paul was colorable only, to secure the iron and its proceeds from the creditors of William, and that there was no debt due by William to James. Evidence. The court below decided that the sale of the iron from William to James was colorable and fraudulent and subjected the proceeds thereof to the demands of the complainants against William Paul. To reverse this decree James Paul has prosecuted these writs of error. Decree of the circuit court. In the progress of the cause, the deposition of William Paul was taken by the complainants, to prove that there was no sale of the iron to James, and that the proceeds belonged to him, and it is insisted in this court that this deposition is incompetent and ought not to be read. There is no evidence in the record, that this objection was insisted on in the court below and there decided. All that appears is that there were exceptions to the deposition written and filed, and there is no answer thereto. For anything that appears these exceptions might have been waived at the trial. Exceptions to a deposition filed below, not acted on there, but argued in this court. It has been said in argument, that these exceptions were insisted on, that the court below took this point into consideration, with the merits, and afterwards rendered a decree upon the merits, but was silent as to the competency of this deposition. Depositions must be excepted to in the circuit court; the exceptions insisted on before or at the hearing, and the judge ought to decide and admit or exclude the depositions, whatever may be his decree on the merits. *3 If this was established it would convict the inferior court of an impropriety which could not receive the sanction of this court. By the practice in chancery, so long settled in this country, objections to the competency of witnesses or to depositions because they are irregularly taken, must be made in the court below, and when made, ought to be there decided, and the record ought to show that decision, or the deposition be taken from the record. According to the ancient and correct practice, the decree of the chancellor or some of his orders, or the report of a master, was used to show that such exceptions were taken, and give the answer to their truth or falsehood, and the admission or rejection of the depositions with the reasons thereof. If this appeared to have been done in this court, it would obviate all difficulty. For if they were brought here, the record accompanying them would show that they were objected to, and the grounds of these objections, and thus this court could revise the opinion of the court below. Ancient practice to exceptions to depositions. In this country, however, the inferior courts and their solicitors in chancery, have borrowed from the proceedings in a court of common law, a practice which does not belong to a court of chancery, and admit of bills of exception to the opinion of the court below, admitting or rejecting the depositions or exhibits objected to, and these bills of exception state the whole grounds of objection and the facts in support thereof, whereby it can be seen in this court whether the evidence was properly admitted or rejected. Practice in Kentucky, of taking bills of exceptions in chancery causes, borrowed from the common law courts. But as these objections to the admissibility of evidence must be taken in the court below, and cannot be made in this court, for the first time, it is evident that if the party making the objection waives it in the court below, the record need not say anything upon the subject; or if the court rejects the evidence, and the party objecting submits to the decision, and does not intend further to insist on the evidence offered, either in that court or this, the evidence rejected may be taken from the record, and noted by the clerk as rejected. Evidence objected to and rejected by the court, ought to be taken out of the record, and noted by the clerk as rejected. In no case, however, where exceptions to evidence are taken either before or on the hearing, and submitted with the merits, ought the court below to be silent and give no answer thereto. For whether the evidence be admitted or rejected it affords the party against whom the decision is, an opportunity of insisting that the record, either by entry thereon, or by the borrowed practice of exception, should show the reasons and grounds of decision, if the court shall fail to make the proper entry thereof on the record. If on the contrary, the court shall be silent, as is alleged to be the case here, it is evident that the party objecting is deprived of the opportunity of insisting on the exception in this court, if ruled against him below, or if it is ruled for him in silence, he is liable to have his case tried here on evidence excepted to, and rejected below, appearing here as if no objection had been made at all. *4 At whatever time the question of evidence is insisted on, the judge ought to decide it. But here is only exceptions to the deposition appearing in the record and nothing more. We have seen what it was the duty of the court to have done, if these exceptions were insisted on; and the court not having shown any decision thereon, is evidence to us that the exceptions were not urged. For we must presume that that court did right till the contrary appears. The deposition of William Paul can not, therefore be rejected here as incompetent, and we can only use his interest so far as it affects his credibility. If the circuit court fail to decide on exceptions to depositions, this court presumes the exceptions were waived. That he is interested and that in favor of the party attempting to use him as a witness, we have no doubt. It appears that before his deposition was taken, in a suit brought by James Paul against him, in the state of Pennsylvania, and closed by arbitration, he had claimed and obtained against the demands of James Paul in that suit, a full credit for the price of this iron sold to James Paul at Wheeling, and thus had received the benefit of this iron. If by his testimony here, he could again subject the price of that iron to the demands of his creditors, he would receive its value twice instead of once, which gives him a direct interest. Debtor, whose debt a creditor seeks to have made out of property claimed by a third person, is interested to subject the property, and not a competent witness for the creditor. Add to this, his testimony is fatally impeached on other points. He swears distinctly that he did not appropriate ten tons of the iron at Wheeling to discharge the demands of I. B. Trevor & Co. who had there as creditors, attached the cargo; but that the attachment was dismissed without it, when it is clearly proved by one of the partners of that firm, that he did make such disposition of that quantity, and his written transfer under his hand and seal is produced, establishing these facts beyond contradiction. Under such circumstances we have no hesitation in rejecting his testimony as wholly unworthy of credit. Proceeding to consider the cause with this deposition rejected, we do not deem it very material to decide whether James Paul was only the agent of William for the purpose of transporting and vending the iron here, or whether he bought the iron at Wheeling and was to account for it at a stipulated price. For if he was but the agent, as the complainants contend yet if William Paul is really indebted to him and has failed, we can not perceive on what principle this fund can be taken out of his hands till his demands are satisfied. As a creditor his equity must be equal to the claims of the complainants, and the possession, or rather the legal title to the note of the keeper of the penitentiary is in him, and therefore, between equal equities the law must prevail, and he must be allowed to retain till his demands are satisfied. *5 One having the possession of funds of an insolvent as his agent, or being his debtor on one transaction, may retain for his claims on other accounts against any other creditor; because of his equality and equity and advantage at law. That William Paul was his debtor, is established beyond contradiction. Before this suit was brought, or rather, before any notice of it, James Paul had sued William in the court of quarter sessions and common pleas of Fayette county Pennsylvania.. That suit which appears to have been earnestly prosecuted on one side and defended on the other, was finally closed by an award of arbitrators and judgment thereon, long before this suit was decided in the court below, and that judgment is in favor of James Paul for a balance after William was allowed a full credit, for the whole price of this iron. This decision before a competent tribunal of a sister state, must be held conclusive of the question of debt and credit, as between James and William Paul and must operate against the complainants here, so far as their claims depend on the question of debt or no debt, from William to James. For if James does not owe William the price of this iron, then these creditors have no claim thereto. It is true, that suit in Pennsylvania was closed after these were commenced, but was brought before notice of any pending contest here; and these complainants took no steps to arrest its progress, or to question the correctness of the demand by any proper allegation in their bills in these causes; nor is it pretended that the proceeding was collusive and not in good faith, of course we can not fail to give that record full faith and credit, and these complainants are not entitled to subject this fund due from the keeper of the penitentiary. In such case, the record of a judgment of a sister state in favor of such depository or debtor of the insolvent party, obtained against the insolvent, pending suit of the other creditors to subject the demand is prima facie proof of the debt. As this fund can not be subjected, we dismiss the controversy without inquiring into the merits of the claims of these creditors, because no other relief can be given them. The jurisdiction of a court of equity over the controversy rests entirely on whether the fund attached can or can not be subjected. If the fund can be reached, the chancellor will liquidate the claim of the creditor, and decree its satisfaction out of the fund attached. If on the contrary the fund escapes, the jurisdiction of the chancellor goes with it, and he declines going further. No decision, therefore, which we could give on the demands of these creditors against William Paul, would or could conclude the rights of the parties, the demands being purely legal, and they can not, therefore, be prejudiced by any other decree we could render. Where the fund attached, to subject which the jurisdiction of the court is claimed, escapes, the court can proceed no farther, but shall dismiss the suit without prejudice. *6 The decrees of the court below must, therefore be reversed with costs, and these causes be remanded with directions to the court below to dismiss each bill with costs and without prejudice to any future suits of the complainants against William Paul, for the same demands set up against him in their bills. Mandate. Brown, for plaintiffs; Talbott, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Paul v. Rogers' Adm'r 5 T.B.Mon. 164, 21 Ky. 164, 1827 WL 1523 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
