(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 222,  10 Ky. 222 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1038 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John G. M'Dowell v. John Heath's Ex'ors. Apr. 4, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE MASON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Costs 102 k 233 102 Costs 102X On Appeal or Error 102k233 k. Affirmance. Most Cited Cases If a defendant in error make default, he shall not recover costs, though the judgment be affirmed. Equity 150 k 87(1) 150 Equity 150II Laches and Stale Demands 150k87 Following Statute of Limitations 150k87(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases A court of equity as well as a court of law is bound by the statute of limitation. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Heath's executors recovered a judgment on motion, in the court below, against M'Dowell, the plaintiff in error, for money paid by their testator as security for M'Dowell. To be relieved against this judgment, M'Dowell filed this bill with injunction, claiming that Heath, the testator, in his lifetime, and before the payment of the money as his security, on which the judgment at law is founded, was indebted to him in two items equal to the judgment. That one of these items was Heath's proportion of a note given jointly by him and Heath to a certain John Nichols, of which Heath was to pay two-thirds, and he, M'Dowell, one-third. But Heath paid no part of it, and he had to pay the whole himself, which created a demand against Heath for two-thirds of it. That the other item of debt was thus created; M'Dowell, as deputy sheriff, sold a mare of some person under execution, and Heath became the purchaser, and did not pay the money down, but promised him to pay it in a few days, or to pay it to the plaintiff in execution, and produce his receipt; both of which he failed to do, and he, M'Dowell, had to pay the money to the plaintiff as he was bound to do, whereby Heath became indebted the price of the mare. He further suggests, that at the time Heath paid the money, as his security, for which the judgment at law was recovered, it was allowed by Heath in payment of the aforesaid demands, and designed to discharge them. The executors negative each of these allegations, and rely on the staleness of the transactions and the statute of limitations, and plead their judgment in bar thereof. The circuit court dissolved the injunction and dismissed the bill. To reverse this decision the writ of error is prosecuted. The proof wholly fails to shew that the advancement of money by Heath, as the security of the plaintiff in error. was done as a payment of the debts claimed in the bill; nor does the proof conduce to shew an agreement to discount them. The transactions have necessarily no connection with each other, and the failure of proof of such agreement, cuts off the main ground for relief in a court of equity, when the remedy at law is at hand, except so far as one of these claims, to-wit, that arising from Nichols' note, partakes of an equitable nature. That arising out of a partnership transaction, would furnish ground for the interposition of a court of equity. But the plea of the statute of limitations must bar relief on this ground. The proof indubitably shews, that the bar had doubly attached before the exhibition of the complainant's bill, and no circumstance is shewn excusing the neglect and laches of the plaintiff in error, and calculated to prevent equity from following the law in this case, as it does in similar transactions. *2 A demand which is barred by time at law, will not be aided by equity. On the affirmance of a decree, the defendant in error will not recover costs if he has made default in the court above. We therefore conceive that the decision of the circuit court is correct, and must be affirmed, but without costs, as the defendants in error have made default in this court. Bibb, for appellant. Ky.App. 1821. McDowell v. Heath's Ex'rs 3 A.K.Marsh. 222, 10 Ky. 222, 1821 WL 1038 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
