(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 429,  10 Ky. 429 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1121 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Benjamin Tuggle v. Randolph Adams. Jun. 1, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE KNOX CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 306 302 Pleading 302IX Profert or Oyer 302k306 k. Oyer. Most Cited Cases Where oyer is craved of the note declared on, and it is spread on the record, but oyer is not craved of the indorsements, the indorsements make no part of the record, notwithstanding the clerk may have copied the same into another part of the record. Bills and Notes 56 k 370 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(D) Holders in Due Course 56k364 Defenses Against Holders in Due Course 56k370 k. Want or Failure of Consideration in General.  Most Cited Cases Want or failure or inadequacy of consideration for negotiable paper between the original parties to it is no defense against it in the hands of a bona fide indorsee. Bills and Notes 56 k 370 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(D) Holders in Due Course 56k364 Defenses Against Holders in Due Course 56k370 k. Want or Failure of Consideration in General.  Most Cited Cases Whether a note was discounted by the bank at which it was payable so as thereby to raise it to the dignity of a bill of exchange, or whether it was not so discounted, the maker may set up, as against the payee, that he signed the note as accommodation for the payee. Bills and Notes 56 k 452(2) 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k450 Defenses 56k452 Particular Grounds 56k452(2) k. Want of Title or Interest. Most Cited  Cases The maker of a note may set up as a defense to an action brought by the payee that the property of the note is in a subsequent indorser. Bills and Notes 56 k 480 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k472 Plea, Answer, or Affidavit of Defense 56k480 k. Transfer and Ownership in General. Most Cited  Cases In an action by the payee of a note against the maker, a plea that the payee procured it to be negotiated in bank for his own benefit, whereby the note became the property of the bank, and that the right to demand and receive the money accrued to, and became vested in, the bank, is sufficient as an allegation that the bank has absolute ownership of the note. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Randolph Adams brought his action of debt, stating on the face of the declaration that he sued for the use of the Bank of Barboursville, against Benjamin Tuggle on a note executed by Tuggle, the plaintiff in error, to Adams, the defendant, negotiable and payable at the aforesaid bank on its face. The plaintiff in error craved oyer of the note and pleaded as follows, to-wit: *2 "That he made and executed said note, to the plaintiff in consideration of the plaintiff' agreeing to endorse the same as his security with the intent that the defendant should procure the same to be negotiated in the bank of Barboursville, for the sole use and benefit of the plaintiff, and no other cause of consideration. And that afterwards, on the day of the date of said note, the said plaintiff did endorse the said note as the defendant's security with the intent aforesaid and for no other cause and consideration, and therefore, the defendant did, on the same day and year, procure the said note to be negotiated in the said bank for the use and benefit of the plaintiff, whereby the said note become the property of the president, directors and company of said bank aforesaid, and the right to demand and receive the money in the said note mentioned accrued to and became vested in them." To this plea there was a demurrer and joinder. The court below sustained the demurrer and gave judgment for the plaintiff below; and the sole question presented for the decision of this court is the validity of the plea, as no objections are perceived to the declaration. If this note was discounted by the bank it was thereby the decision of this court is the validity of the plea, as no the dignity of a bill of exchange, and it is a well settled principle that the consideration of foreign bills may be contested in a controversy between immediate parties, as between drawer and drawee, endorser and endorsee, or the drawer and acceptor, and if it was drawn or indorsed for accommodation only, it is a good defence. If this note then was made by the plaintiff in error for the benefit of the defendant in error, and loaned to him to be negotiated in bank for the benefit of the defendant in error, it follows that the defendant in error, has no right, by suit for his benefit, to recover the amount of it from him as a bill of exchange, and that it was competent for the defendant, by plea, to shew the fact, although the defendant in error might have been compelled to take up the note from the bank by discharging its contents. A note discounted in bank, assumes the dignity of a foreign bill, but the consideration may be contested between the immediate parties, and if the note was made by the payor, and loaned for the accommodation of the payee, the payor can not maintain an action thereon in his own name; if it has been negotiated the bank alone can maintain the suit against payor. If this note was never discounted by the bank, it remains on the same footing of other notes, the consideration of which may be contested by plea; and the defence set up, that the note was executed and loaned to the defendant in error, by way of accommodation only, must be availing and good against the note. Taking this suit then as the suit of the defendant in error only, and as an attempt on his part to recover the amount from the plaintiff in error, the defence is deemed availing. *3 We do not conceive that the suit, being brought for the use of the bank, can vary this case. This is but suggestion and not a traversable averment. But the plaintiff in error has proceeded in his plea to allege that the note was actually negotiated for the benefit of the defendant in error, and that the title thereof is in the bank. After a note has been negotiated the consideration thereof, whilst the property of the bank, can not be questioned by the payor. If the bank held only the equity of this note it might be a question, as the suit is brought for the use of the bank, and as the plaintiff in error has admitted by his demurrer that the bank holds it bon fac, the court ought to protect that equitable interest by guarding it against a defence set up by the plaintiff in error, which he could make against the defendant, but could not set up against the bank itself. For it is clear that he could not avail himself of the want of consideration existing between him and the payee of the note, against the bank, a bona fide holder of the paper, standing, after it was discounted, on the grade of a foreign bill. It is true that an endorsement of a bill in blank confers an authority to the holder to fill up the endorsement; but before this authority is executed, and the indorsement filled, the holder is said, in some cases, not to have the legal right to the bill. 12 Mod. 192.   Bradford v. Ross. 3 Bibb. 238. And if this was the situation of the present note, the question of protecting the equity of the bank might occur. And we might then have to decide how far the bank, because she assumed the name of the defendant in error, ought to stand in his place, and abide a defense good against him; and how far it would be expedient for a court of law to go, in protecting an equity held by a party, who had it in his power to assume at once the legal title, by filling up the indorsement, and that filling would have relation to the time he had actually bought the instrument. But waiving these questions as not necessary to be now decided, there is oyer craved of this note and it is spread upon the record, but no oyer is craved or given of the indorsement. The clerk has copied a paper into another part of the record with endorsements stating it to be the note on which the suit is founded. But he had no authority to make the endorsements or note a part of the record, without it is brought upon it by oyer, bill of exceptions, demurrer to evidence, agreed case, special verdict, or some other way by order of the court. Unless this has been done, this court cannot take notice of the endorsements as any part of the record, and must decide this case on the plea by inquiring whether the allegations of the plea are sufficient to shew that the legal right to this paper is in the bank. The plea alleges, that the defendant in error "did endorse the note as his security," and, "did procure it to be negotiated in bank," for his use and benefit, whereby the note became the property of the president, directors and company;" and that the "right to demand and receive the money, accrued to, and became vested in them." These averments are too strong to mean any thing less, than that the bank has the absolute ownership of the note; and, if so, the bank must sue, and the defendant could not. *4 Though the clerk in making out the record may copy into the note on which suit may be brought and the endorsements thereon, the court can not notice either unless they are made a part of the record by oyer, &c., but on averment in a plea that the note is the property of some other than the plaintiff will be attended to and on demurrer the plaintiff will be precluded from maintaining the action in his own name. It is true, it is decided by this court in the case of Bell v. Morehead, fall term, 1820, and the bare holding of a note is evidence of property, and that the holder, under such circumstances, may strike out the subsequent endorsements. But the possession only affords prima facie evidence, and does not preclude the opposite party from shewing, that the title is in those subsequent indorsers, whose names were stricken from the bill, and thereby defeating the action. The plaintiff in error having shew this by his plea, it must be a good defense while it remains uncontradicted. Taking this note then as either the property of the defendant in error, or of the bank, the plaintiff in error has shewn enough to defeat the action. A man holding a note made to himself is prima facie evidence that he is the owner and he may strike out the endorsements, but this does not prevent the payor from shewing that the note is really the property of one of the endorsers. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs and the cause remanded, with directions to the court below to overrule the demurrer, unless the plaintiff in that court shall tender a good replication and ask leave to withdraw it. Crittenden, for plaintiff, Bibb, for defendant. Ky.App. 1821. Tuggle v. Adams 3 A.K.Marsh. 429, 10 Ky. 429, 1821 WL 1121 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
