(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 189,  19 Ky. 189 (Ky.),  1826 WL 2192 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Alexander v. Wright. Apr. 17, 1826. *1 Attorney. Counsel. Client. License. Warrant. Practice. New Trial. Error. Costs. Damages. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 750(9) 30 Appeal and Error 30XI Assignment of Errors 30k750 Scope and Effect of Assignment 30k750(9) k. Questions Raised by Assigning Error to Ruling  on Motion for New Trial. Most Cited Cases When error is assigned upon the overruling of a motion for a new trial, such assignment brings in review all the grounds properly made the basis of the motion, and they need not be assigned as error. Attorney and Client 45 k 69 45 Attorney and Client 45II Retainer and Authority 45k68 Proof of Authority 45k69 k. Necessity. Most Cited Cases That the suit is prosecuted for the use of another, in whose derivation of right to the demand there is a manifest defect, is a presumption which ought to put the attorney to show his authority. Attorney and Client 45 k 71 45 Attorney and Client 45II Retainer and Authority 45k68 Proof of Authority 45k71 k. Objections to Authority. Most Cited  Cases The adverse party can demand the attorney's authority only where he shows his rights are jeoparded without it, or that he was disturbed by being brought into litigation without the consent of the other party. Attorney and Client 45 k 71 45 Attorney and Client 45II Retainer and Authority 45k68 Proof of Authority 45k71 k. Objections to Authority. Most Cited  Cases Plaintiff brought suit alleging that he was the assignee of a judgment to enforce the same. Defendant, in an affidavit, stated that the judgment plaintiff had long since left the country, and had not been heard from, and that he believed him to be dead, and that he had given no authority to anybody to prosecute the suit, and that the person pretending to have an assignment of the judgment, and for whose use the suit was prosecuted, had no title thereto. Held, that the affidavit was sufficient to entitle defendant to a rule to the counsel for plaintiff to show some right in those for whose benefit the suit was brought, either legally or equitably derived from the judgment plaintiff, before the attorney could be permitted to proceed with the suit. Attorney and Client 45 k 72 45 Attorney and Client 45II Retainer and Authority 45k68 Proof of Authority 45k72 k. Evidence of Authority. Most Cited  Cases Every attorney regularly licensed, and duly admitted to practice, possesses a general license to appear in court for any suitors who may retain him;  but his license is not of itself an authority to appear for any particular person. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Case stated. This action was brought in the name of the present defendant in error, who declared in debt, on a judgment rendered in the State of Virginia. The defendant below, now plaintiff, appeared, and on filing an affidavit, procured a rule on the counsel of the plaintiff below, to show by what authority, and by whose procurement, he prosecuted this suit. Rule on the counsel to shew his authority. In the affidavit he stated that James Wright, the then plaintiff, had long since left Virginia and gone to Florida or some of the then Spanish dominions, and had never been heard of since, and that, from this and other circumstances, he believed him to be dead; and that he verily believed, that he, said Wright, had given no authority to prosecute this suit to any person; and that the person who pretended to have an assignment of the judgment, and for whose use this suit was prosecuted, had no title thereto, and if compelled to pay the money now, he would be in danger of being compelled to repay it to James Wright or his representatives. Affidavit used on the motion for the rule. On the return of this rule, the counsel for the then plaintiff produced his license to practice law in the courts of the Commonwealth, and evidence of his admission to practice in that court, admitted that he had not obtained a warrant of attorney when employed in this case or any other during several years practice, and averred that it was not customary to do so, by practitioners of law in this State; and insisted that his license gave him complete authority to appear in any case, without his right to commence or prosecute the suit being questioned in court at the instance of the opposite party. Cause shewn by counsel in answer to the rule. The court below sustained the cause shown as good, and discharged the rule. Rule discharged. A judgment on nil dicit was then rendered, and a writ of inquiry prosecuted, and judgment rendered for the plaintiff below. Judgment for plaintiff. The defendant then moved that the execution of the writ of inquiry should be set aside and a new trial granted, and among other things relied, in that motion, on the supposed error in the court, in not sustaining the rule to produce the warrant of attorney, and in allowing the counsel for plaintiff below to proceed without showing any authority to do so from the owner of the judgment sued on. Motion for new trial. The court overruled this motion; the defendant below excepted spreading all this matter on record, and has prosecuted this writ of error. Decision of the circuit court. It is now insisted by the defendant in error, that the errors assigned do not reach the question made on the rule to produce authority to prosecute the suit. We think differently. It is assigned for error that the court below erred in not granting a new trial, and this point was pressed on the motion for a new trial. An assignment of error, that the court erred in overruling the motion for a new trial, brings before this court every question made in the grounds of the motion for a new trial, tho' made and decided before trial. *3 If the court erred in refusing to require authority to proceed in the suit, and in permitting the plaintiff's counsel to proceed till that was done, it was competent for the defendant below, with leave of the court to ask a reconsideration of this question as a reason why the verdict should not stand, and to bring the counsel for the plaintiff below back to the same point, by a review of that question; and it was competent for the court to correct its own errors by bringing the plaintiff back to the point where his course ought to have been arrested. It follows, therefore, that the assignment of error, questioning the decision of that court in not granting a new trial, does bring in question every point, on which the defendant below might properly rely on that motion. If the court err in not dismissing a suit for want of authority in an attorney to prosecute it, on the return of a rule before trial, it may be corrected afterwards, on a motion for a new trial. The question then presents itself--was the rule properly granted? And did the court err in discharging the rule, to produce authority to progress with the suit, on the production of the general license of the attorney prosecuting? It has been here insisted that no warrant of attorney in this State is necessary, and that the license of the attorney, and the law under which it was granted supplies everything necessary, and furnishes the attorney with full authority to proceed without question everywhere and at all times. To this doctrine we cannot subscribe. The acts of assembly directing how licenses shall be granted to attornies and counsel at law, and the license granted in pursuance thereof, do authorize the attorney to appear and act for every party who may employ him to do so; but not to appear for every party, whether employed or not, or to appear for any party on the employment, and at the instance of a stranger, who may have no interest in the cause, either legal or equitable. The license of an attorney now held here under our statute, like the license in England formerly by letters patent from the Crown since, as with us, is only an authority to be employed for parties, not to appear without warrant. The right to be employed and appear is one thing; this is proved by the license, and the law under which it was granted. The fact of being actually employed is another matter, and is proved by the warrant of attorney. In England, from which our jurisprudence is derived, attornies must have a general license and an admission in court; yet the warrant of attorney could not be dispensed with in cases where it was properly demanded. And the general license was not intended to reach further in this country. This license formerly was required to be by letters patent from the crown; but afterwards, the license and admission of attornies and counsel became a subject of statutory regulation, as it is here. But through these changes, the special warrant of attorney was held necessary, down to out separation from that government. Tidd's practice, 34-64. *4 This warrant of attorney originally must be given in court--or rather, a party in open court must appoint his attorney, and in process of time it was done by writing en pais, and even a warrant by parol has there been held good. To regulate these warrants, statutes were enacted, some of which were in force in this country, and have continued so since our separation, and are retained in our code, 1 Dig. L. K. 125, 126. The warrant of attorney had originally to be given in court, afterwards in writing; now by parol is sufficient. It has been urged that those laws are obsolete, and the long disuse of the practice of warrants of attorney both in Virginia and in this State, and indeed in other States of the Union has been urged as a reason why these statutes, or the provisions of the common law are not in force in this country, or are become obsolete. We admit that such warrants have been seldom used for a great length of time, and our adjudged cases are silent on the subject. The long disuse of the warrant of attorney has not repealed the law that requires it. This silence is loud testimony in favor of the integrity of the profession, for when the abuses are considered which might arise without, and which are intended to be restrained by warrants of attorney, the necessity of them must have been superseded more by the correct practice of the profession than by any other cause. Attornies and counsel might often use the securities of others which fall into their hands, and use their names in actions, without their consent, for fraudulent purposes, and especially the judgments of others, of which any person may obtain copies who pays for them at the clerk's offices, might often be put in suit, and money coerced by them without leave of their owners. These and similar practices have not been followed by practitioners, and hence warrants of attorney have been seldom demanded. But the possibility that such practices may grow up, shows the wisdom of the law in restraining them by warrants of attorney, and we do not feel ourselves at liberty to dispense with them. We cannot say that either the provisions of the common law or these statutes are not in force, for we find no repeal. Nor can we say that they are obsolete, while the reason for their existence remains, and indeed our own statutory code supposes them in force, by expressly naming the warrant of attorney, and providing for cases where the want of it shall not reverse the judgment, 2 Dig. L. K. 681--2. If the law on this subject is still in force as we have supposed, it presents the question whether in this case the warrant of attorney was rightfully demanded, and ought to have been shown at the instance of the opposite party. Anciently the warrant of attorney was necessary to shew that the party was in fact cognizant of the proceedings for otherwise he was not bound.-- As between the attorney and his client, it is evidently necessary that some kind of warrant should exist. For when it is considered that a party, plaintiff or defendant, is bound by the judgment, and if against him or for him, it is conclusive evidence thereafter, the necessity is evident to preclude his rights from jeopardy without his consent, by the existence of a warrant of attorney. *5 Hence judgments were reversed for the omission of the warrant in the record.____ It was on this principle that the lack of a warrant of attorney in the record was even held sufficient to reverse it. It was because it did not appear that the party whose warrant was absent, was privy to the suit, or had consented to its prosecution. So is not now the law ____ The practice, however, under our statutes, which forbids a reversal for the lack of the warrant, proves that this was carrying the caution too far; but the existence of a fear on that subject, shows how tender the law was of individual rights, and that it had provided against their being concluded without the consent of the party. But the authority of the attorney must be shewed when properly demanded. In this case, however, the warrant is demanded by the opposite party, and he ought to show that his rights were jeopardized without it, or that he was disturbed by being brought into litigation without the consent of the man, who stood on the record as his adversary. The adversary party can demand the authority of the attorney only where he shews his rights are jeopardized without it, or that he was disturbed by being brought into litigation without the consent of the party. This we think his affidavit has done. He shows a probability of Wright's death, and if that is true, and the money should now be collected in his name, the recovery would be no bar to his representatives. He has shown strong circumstances that Wright had no hand in this suit, and he hereafter might be in danger of another contest with Wright for the same demand, because Wright had nothing to do with this controversy. In such case, the counsel for plaintiff was bound to show some right in those for whose benefit the suit was brought, either legal or equitable. The suit seems to have been prosecuted for the use of another, and there are assignments on the transcript of the record of the judgment filed. But no assignment thereof appears by Wright to the plaintiff, or any authority from him. The only assignment which is pretended to pass his title, is made by John Wright, who styles himself the administrator of Robert Wright, now deceased, who was the attorney in fact of James Wright the plaintiff. That the suit is prosecuted for the use of another in whose derivation of right to the demand there is a manifest defect, is presumption which ought to put the attorney to shew his authority. Now the idea that the administrator of an attorney in fact can pass by assignment, the securities of the principal of his intestate, is so absurd, that it furnishes a suspicion that there has been an improper attempt to take hold of and use this Virginia judgment, without the consent of its owner, and imposes upon the attorney for the plaintiff, or those who are suing on the record, the necessity of exhibiting some further evidence of title, derived from the plaintiff, before he can be permitted to proceed with his suit, and of course the court below, on the evidence adduced on showing cause against the rule, erred in discharging that rule. *6 We would not be understood as imposing upon the profession hardships in their management of causes, or as deciding that they were bound to gratify the party to which they were opposed, with a sight of their authority on every capricious demand; but that when reasons are shown why the interest of the adverse party are jeopardized by prosecuting suits without the leave or consent from the real owner of the demand, their authority ought to be shown. The attorney's authority can not be capriciously demanded by the adversary party; he must shew probable cause before the requisition shall be made. One other point made as grounds for a new trial, as the cause may progress on its return to the court below, will be noticed. It is insisted that the verdict is for too much. The judgment for the debt is for $110, which is the precise amount of the debt mentioned in the foreign record, omitting $10 72 cents, recited in the declaration as the costs, awarded in Virginia. In this respect, the debt recovered is made less than the debt demanded. For we view the costs, which were awarded in Virginia, as part of the judgment there, and of course part of the debt, which is demanded here. But the damages awarded by the jury in this action, are more than the amount of interest, at the rate given in evidence to the jury. This increase is suggested to have arisen by adding in the costs in Virginia. This was placing these costs as part of the damages, when they ought to have been part of the debt. In an action on a judgment, the costs of the suit recovered by the judgment are a part of the judgment itself, and are recoverable as principal and not to be computed as damages-- But, An error in adding the costs in the damages, instead of the debt, is not an error which defendant can assign. But as the defendant was subjected to no more by this transposition of the costs, than he would have been had they been placed in their proper place, the exception ought not to be held sufficient to reverse the judgment. But on the other point, the judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded with directions to retry the rule to produce authority to prosecute the suit, and if none is produced, or sufficient cause is not shown, to dismiss the suit accordingly. Mandate for the attorney of plaintiff to shew his authority, otherwise suit to be dismissed. Caperton, for plaintiff; Turner, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. McAlexander v. Wright 3 T.B.Mon. 189, 19 Ky. 189, 1826 WL 2192 (Ky.), 16 Am.Dec. 93 END OF DOCUMENT
