(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 212,  19 Ky. 212 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1273 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. H. & P. Hamilton v. The Commonwealth. May 25, 1826. *1 Bastardy. Parties. Actions. Statutory Bonds and Recognizances. Statutes. Relators. County Creditors. ERROR TO THE ESTILL CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76H k 40 76H Children Out-Of-Wedlock 76HV Paternity Proceedings 76Hk40 k. Security for Appearance. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 53k47  Bastards) In bastardy cases either a bond or a recognizance may be taken of the father. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of debt brought in the circuit court, on a recognizance taken in the county court, binding the defendants below to pay so much money annually for a certain number of years, to support a bastard child, which one of them had been adjudged to support as the father, and the breaches assigned in the non-payment of the annual installments. Debt on a bastardy bond. The defendants below demurred, and the court overruled the demurrer, and rendered judgment for the plaintiff; to reverse which, this writ of error is prosecuted, relying solely on the ground that the court erred in overruling the demurrer. Demurrer to the declaration--Overruled, and judgment for plaintiff. The first question presented is, whether the instrument declared on is valid, because it is in the form of a recognizance acknowledged in court, and not sealed by the parties, and is not executed as an ordinary bond. It is true, that the act does direct bond with security to be taken, conditioned to abide by and perform the order of the court. It is equally true, that, though a recognizance is truly held to be a bond of record, yet every bond taken in court may not be a recognizance, but may possess only the properties of ordinary bonds. Every recognizance entered into in court is a bond, tho' every bond taken in court is not a recognizance. But it is also true, that the act speaks of either a bond or recognizance, and admits the validity of either as to remedies prosecuted thereon. Hence it has be come the practice in many courts to take recognizances, which shews that the cotemporaneous expositions of the law has admitted recognizances to be valid, and we feel ourselves bound to follow this exposition, which took its rise from the terms of the act itself, and to hold such recognizances to be valid. In cases of bastardy either a recognizance or bond may be taken of the putative father. The order of the court directs the money to be paid to a certain individual named therein, to be applied by him to the support of the child, and this action is brought in the name of the commonwealth, for the benefit of that individual as relator, and it is insisted that he can not sustain the action. We think differently. An action may be maintained on the bastardy bond in the name of the Commonwealth, at the relation and for the use of one to whom the county court orders the money to be paid. That the county court had the power to order the money to be thus paid can not be questioned, and their having done so, gives him the legal right to it, to be disposed of, for the child, and we can perceive no reason why he should not be allowed to assert that right in a court of justice, by any remedy which the law might place in his power. *2 It is also urged that the remedy by action in the circuit court, can not be maintained because the statute does not give it expressly; but points out a special remedy by notice and motion in the county court, and that such remedy is, therefore, unique and not cumulative;--that the act is penal, and must be construed strictly, and the circuit court has no jurisdiction thereof. The action in such case may be maintained on the recognizance in the circuit court. It is true, the action on such recognizance or bond in any other court is not mentioned in the act. But it does not thence follow that such remedy does not exist. It may be assumed as a general rule, that where any bond or recognizance takes its birth from an act of assembly of a remedial nature, together with a peculiar remedy therein named to enforce it, that remedy is not always alone; but other remedies of the common law attach, which are attached to instruments of like character, and we see no good reason for making this recognizance an exception to that rule. Common law actions may be maintained on statutory bonds and recognizances, tho' particular remedies be given. The act has no restrictive expressions, and is not, as has been formerly held by this court, of a penal, but of a remedial character and designed to compel the father to perform an act of natural justice to his illegitimate and helpless offspring, and he ought, therefore, to be subject to the same remedies to recover this demand, as he would be, if he had given this bond to perform it without compulsion. The act to compel fathers of bastard children to maintain them is not penal. The matter in dispute now is one completely within the general provisions of the laws defining the jurisdiction of the circuit courts, within their respective circuits, and therefore, ought not to be withheld from them, unless the act of assembly contained restrictive expressions. Actions on recognizances and judgments of courts are not local or confined to the courts whose records they are. It would be necessary to shew that such a record would only authorize a local action. But this can not be admitted. For although the superior courts of Westminister Hall retained in Middlesex the jurisdiction of their own judgments and records when actions of debt were brought thereon, yet they would act on the judgments of each other, and support actions of debts on the records of inferior courts; and we perceive no reason for refusing to extend the jurisdiction of the circuit courts of this state thus far, when the acts granting them jurisdiction are very comprehensive in their terms, and no restriction is produced. The commonwealth, use of Kennett v.  Fugate, 1 Monroe 1, has been quoted and relied on as in point and decisive against this action. Whatever may be the merits of that decision, it is clearly distinguishable from the present, and can have no bearing upon it. Diversity between this case and Kennett and  Fugate, 1 Monroe 1. *3 That was an action against the sheriff and sureties, on their bond for the faithful collection and appropriation of the county Ievy, and was directed by the original act to be given to the justices of the county court. This is a bond to secure a sum for a specific purpose, and the original act directed the bond to be given to the Governor. Now it will be found, that an act of assembly since passed, has made an important difference between bonds theretofore to be executed to the Governor, and those to be given to the justices of the county court. The act is in 2 Dig. L. K. 975, and the first section reads thus:-- In that case the act of 2 Dig. 975, which directed the bastardy and all other bonds before made payable to the Governor, to be thereafter taken to the commonwealth expressly gave the action on the bond, at the relation of all persons injured by a breach of its condition. "All bonds of a kind heretofore made payable to the Commonwealth, or to the Governor shall hereafter be made payable to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and suits thereon shall be in the name of the Commonwealth, and be for the use of the Commonwealth, or for the benefit (as the case may be) of any person or who may at his, her or their proper costs and charge, persons deeming himself, herself, or themselves injured by a breach of the condition of any such bond, put the same in suit." While this provision changes the obligee of a bond to provide for the support of bastard children, by inserting the commonwealth instead of the Governor, it is amply sufficient to maintain this action, and may be held decisive of this controversy. But bonds payable to the justices of the county court are left by the act, as to the actions which may be brought thereon, in the same situation, in which they were placed by their original statutes. For the 8th section of the act just quoted declares that, "The bonds of guardians, of executors, and of administrators and others, who by law are required to execute a bond to the county court justices, shall be made payable to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, instead of the justices, and may be proceeded on as heretofore." This was the kind of bond on which the decision was rendered in the case of the Commonwealth use of Kennett v. Fugate, to which the act quoted added no new remedies but left them as "heretofore," and as the provisions of the original act gave no action of debt, the court there held that such action would not lie in favor of one individual. Whereas, the 8 s of the same act, which changed the obligee of the bonds of county collectors, from the justices of the county to the commonwealth, has no such provision. In this case the bond is not only changed by the act quoted, but the remedy by action thereon is expressly given, and it would be disregarding the express words of the act were we to refuse to sanction this action. Each of these bonds are regulated by different statutes, and therefore may well meet with a different decision, without any conflict in principle. *4 Here the action will lie in the name of the commonwealth, at the relation of the nominee of the county court, there it is otherwise. The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be affirmed, with costs. Caperton, for plaintiffs; Turner, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Hamilton v. Commonwealth 3 T.B.Mon. 212, 19 Ky. 212, 1826 WL 1273 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
