(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 215,  17 Ky. 215 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1536 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hughes v. Robertson. Dec. 14, 1824. *1 ??lls of Exceptions, Practice, Fraud, Suppressio Veri, Action, Error. ??ERROR TO THE ESTILL CIRCUIT; JAMES CLARK, JUDGE. West Headnotes Fraud 184 k 17 184 Fraud 184I Deception Constituting Fraud, and Liability Therefor 184k15 Fraudulent Concealment 184k17 k. Duty to Disclose Facts. Most Cited  Cases Case will lie for fraud in selling a blind horse for a sound price, though the purchaser examined the horse, if the blindness could not be discovered at first view. Trial 388 k 101 388 Trial 388IV Reception of Evidence 388IV(C) Objections, Motions to Strike Out, and Exceptions 388k99 Exceptions 388k101 k. Time for Exception. Most Cited  Cases Exceptions to evidence must be taken as soon as the court decides to admit or reject it;  but it is sufficient if a note be then made of the exceptions, and presented;  it may be reduced to form afterwards. Trial 388 k 273 388 Trial 388VII Instructions to Jury 388VII(F) Objections and Exceptions 388k273 k. Time for Objection or Exception. Most Cited  Cases A party can except to the opinion of the court in giving or refusing instructions only at the time when they are given or refused. Appeal and Error 30 k 938(2) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(G) Presumptions 30k938 Making and Contents of Bill of Exceptions, Case,  or Statement of Facts 30k938(2) k. Time of Making or Filing. Most Cited  Cases When a bill of exceptions is enrolled after the trial without any further statement, the court will presume the exception to have been taken at the proper time, and that the drawing and sealing of the bill was properly postponed. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. The plaintiff in the court below, and now plaintiff in ??ror, declared against the defendant in three counts, ??r fraud in the sale or exchange of horses. The first count was for knowing a defect in the eyes ?? the beast he disposed of, and fraudulently conceal??g it; the second for falsely representing his beast to ?? sound, knowing the fact to be otherwise; and the ??ird, for inducing the plaintiff to purchase, by fraudu??ntly warranting the beast to be sound. On the trial of the issue of not guilty, the plaintiff ??ave no evidence conducing to prove the two last ??unts; but proved that the beast was blind or nearly ??, and had been so for some years, and had been pre??ously sold as blind; that nobody could keep the ani??al long, without discovering its blindness, although it ??ight not be discovered on the first view; that the de??endant well knew the fact, but, at the time of the ex??hange, made no statement about it, and appeared to ??ive up the beast to be examined by the plaintiff at ??leasure, and said to a witness, who observed that the ??are was blind, not in the plaintiff's presence, while ??he parties were on treaty, ""never mind that." The ??rice given for the beast was as great as it would have ??mmanded if sound, and much beyond its value in its ??resent state. *2 The court on this evidence, instructed the jury as in ??ase of a nonsuit, and the plaintiff excepted, and has ??rought the case to this court by writ of error. (1.) A previous question is made, before we reach ??he merits. It is insisted, that as the record shows that ??he bill of exceptions was filed some days after the ??rial, and not during it, it cannot be noticed by this ??ourt. (1) Exceptions to decisions of the court ought to be taken on the trial; but it is not necessary for the bill to be then written and sealed; that may be done at any convenient time. That exceptions ought to be taken on the trial, as the ??ecision takes place, we have no doubt; but that it is ??ecessary that it should be written and sealed at that ??oment, to make it valid, is what we cannot admit. ??That may be done at any convenient time, and postpon??ng it for the moment, may be a great convenience not only to the court and counsel, but also to the jurors?? who are the triers of the controversy. (2.) If notice was not given, at the time of the deci??sion, that an exception would be taken, and notwith??standing the exception should be presented at a futur?? day and the court should for that cause refuse to sea?? it, it would be a different question from the one we are?? considering. (2) Quere--If notice is not given at the time a decision is given, that an exception will be taken, ought or may not the court, after the trial, refuse to allow and seal it? (3.) But when the execution is afterwards sealed and?? allowed, and appears of record, without any further?? statement, we are bound to believe that the exception?? was taken at a proper moment, and the filing and en??rolling of it postponed until then, to suit the conveni??ence of all concerned; and when so done, it must be as??valid as if entered between the swearing and verdict o?? the jury. (3) When a bill of exceptions is enrolled after the trial, without any further statement, the court will presume the exception had been taken at the proper moment, and that the drawing and sealing of the bill had been properly postponed. (4.) With regard to the propriety of the instruction?? given it is insisted that the evidence conduced to prove?? the concealment of a known defect, and that for such?? concealment an action will lie. On the other hand, it?? is contended that a court of equity will set aside a?? contract for suppression of truth; but there is no precedent for such a declaration in a court of law, and no adjudicated case which warrants an action for a bare concealment, and that the law only gives remedy where?? there has been a misrepresentation. (4) Case will lie against a veador??, for fraud in selling a blind horse for a sound price, knowing and not decla??ing his blindness, though the purchaser examined the horse, it appearing the blindness might not be discovered at first view. It is true that the books of forms do not furnish a?? precedent expressly in point; but they do exhibit precedents of declarations for deceit in sales, which, in?? principle come up to the present case. And it is not?? necessary that the seller should have been active in producing the concealed defect in the article sold, to make?? the deceit actionable. If it is placed there by other?? causes, and concealed, the seller is guilty of deceit, and?? ought to be responsibe. *3 But if the adjudged cases and books of forms were?? wholly silent on this subject, elementary writers all acknowledge the impropriety of concealment, and the?? suppressio veri makes no inconsiderable figure on their?? pages. If the chancellor would vacate a contract for it, no good reason can be given, why a court of law should not give an action on account of it, and remunerate the?? party in damages. Indeed, we would rather suppose?? that the law first admitted the right, and was followed?? by equity; for courts of law are as much bound to notice frauds as courts of equity, and to redress it, where it can give complete redress; and no reason is perceived, why a court of law cannot give as complete redress for concealment as misrepresentation, especially, where the party, as in this case, as soon as he discovers the defect, disaffirms the contract and tende??s back the article. The principles of sound morality and reason concur in tolerating such an action at law. It was the duty of the seller, in this case, to divulge the defect, which was not apparent. He, on the contrary, held his peace, seeming at the same time, to surrender the beast for examination. He saw that the purchaser did not discover the defect, and proceeded to pay a fair price for the beast, as if there was no defect, and he took it, sensible that he was obtaining by his concealment, more than good conscience allowed him to receive. In all such cases, it will better comport with morality and sound policy, to subject the seller to an action at law, and thereby impose upon him the legal, as well as moral duty of telling the whole truth, especially where the defect, as in this case, is a latent one, which might take some time and nicety of observation to discover. We, therefore, conceive that the court below erred in giving the instruction as in case of a nonsuit. The judgment must, therefore be reversed with costs, and the verdict set aside, and the cause be remanded, for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Hanson, for plaintiff; Turner, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Hughes v. Robertson 1 T.B.Mon. 215, 17 Ky. 215, 1824 WL 1536 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 104 END OF DOCUMENT
