(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 176,  10 Ky. 176 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1246 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. James Young v. James Simral. Dec. 15, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bail 49 k 33 49 Bail 49I In Civil Actions 49k25 Action or Scire Facias on Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k33 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases The record of the original suit against the principal is not a part of the record in the sci. fa. against the bail, unless made such by the plea. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT. A judgment was rendered by default in a scire facias in the court below, against James Simral in favor of the present plaintiff in error. On a subsequent day of the term, Simral appeared and read to the court the original record of the suit, in which he had became special bail on the writ before the sheriff, for David Turney, against whom Young had obtained a judgment, and moved the court to set aside the judgment rendered against him on the scire facias as bail for Turney. The court accordingly set aside the judgment, and quashed and dismissed the scire facias, alleging as a reason that the recognizance of special bail, taken on the back of the original writ, was insufficient. This is the proceeding complained of by the assignment of error. We have no doubt that the judgment quashing the scire facias was erroneous. The recognizance of special bail has been taken by the sheriff in the words directed by the act of assembly endorsed on the writ, and appears every way to comply with the law. It is now urged, in this court, that the sheriff did not, on the writ, return the name of the bail by him taken. If the sheriff has erred in this, of which there is considerable doubt, the party injured may have his action. The law, as it now stands, requires the recognizance of bail to be endorsed on the writ, and to be signed by the bail. This requisition appears to be complied with, and Simral had the opportunity of appearing and contesting it by proper defence to the scire facias. This he did not do; but relied on a subsequent motion, in which no issue, either in law or fact, could be tried. Besides, we consider the whole proceeding by motion as erroneous. It is decided by this court, that the record of the original suit is no part of the record of the suit by scire facias against the bail. If it could be made so, it ought to be introduced by answer to the plea of nul teil record, or in some other legitimate mode. The effect of the original record could not therefore be tried by motion. As to the scire facias, we perceive no valid objection to it. It is true, it recites a previous execution both by fieri facias and capias ad satisfaciendum, when the most approved forms recite neither. It never was adjudged, within the knowledge of this court, that a fieri facias was necessary to fix the bail. But this is regarded as surplusage, and the writ is not thereby vitiated, according to the maxim, "utile per inutile, non vitiatur." *2 The record of the original suit against the principal is no part of the record in the scire facias against the bail, unless made so by plea. The last judgment is therefore reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to the court below to reinstate the first judgment rendered by default. Ky.App. 1820. Young v. Simral 3 A.K.Marsh. 176, 10 Ky. 176, 1826 WL 1246 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
