(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 286,  22 Ky. 286 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1679 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hyne's Representatives v. Campbell. Dec. 5, 1827. *1 Contracts. Conveyances. Statutes. Mistake. Consideration Money. Fraud. Damages. Evidence. ERROR TO THE NELSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 112(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k106 Right to Rescind 400k112 Defect in Title of  Vendor 400k112(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a conveyance of land contained no warranty, and there was a mistake, in making the contract, as to where the title really resided at the time, it was held that the contract must be rescinded. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 341(5) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(A) Recovery of Purchase Money Paid 400k341 Proceedings 400k341(5) k. Amount and Items of Recovery. Most Cited  Cases Where a conveyance of land contained no warranty, and there was a defect in the title of which the vendor was not aware, the purchase money, with interest, should be refunded, as the measure of damages. Acknowledgment 12 k 36(1) 12 Acknowledgment 12II Taking and Certificate 12k35 Contents of Certificate 12k36 Matters Certified in General 12k36(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The certificate of justices of the peace to an acknowledgment of a deed for land in other counties must show that the deed was not only acknowledged, but was subscribed, in their presence. Evidence 157 k 419(2) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k419 Nature of Consideration 157k419(2) k. Deeds in General. Most Cited  Cases Entries in a vendor's book of account are not admissible to contradict the consideration recited in his deed. Evidence 157 k 419(3) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k419 Nature of Consideration 157k419(3) k. Additional Consideration for Deed. Most  Cited Cases Where a deed recites that it is given for a certain consideration and divers others, without saying what the others are, parol evidence is admissible to show other considerations differing in kind from the one specified, but it is not admissible to swell the specified consideration by adding dollar to dollar. Evidence 157 k 419(6) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k419 Nature of Consideration 157k419(6) k. Sustaining Validity of Deed. Most Cited  Cases In an action for the rescission of a sale of land because of a defective title, the consideration stated in the deed is conclusive between the parties, unless fraud or mistake in the writing of the deed be proved. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 On the 21st of April, 1821, Michael and Charles Campbell exhibited their bill, charging that Andrew Hynes, in his lifetime, sold and conveyed to them, in 1796, a tract of 2,500 acres of land, at the price of $1,250; that he misrepresented the quality, and also the title thereof; that he represented the patent as having issued to William May, and conveyed to him by said William May and Philip Phillips, when, in truth and in fact, the patent issued to George May, and that Hynes had no title either legal or equitable to the lands. They make the executor, heirs and devisees of A. Hynes defendants, and pray for a rescission of the contract and restoration of the purchase money, and for general relief. Bill by the Campbells, for rescission of their executed contract of purchase of the land from Hynes in his lifetime. The heirs, devisees and executors of Hynes answer the bill, and deny any misrepresentation of the quality of the land, or any fraud in their testator in the sale, and allege that he verily believed, that his title was complete, and they now admit that George May had improperly got the patent in his name, when the land really belong to William May, and the plat and certificate was returned in his name; but afterwards was altered by George May, who thus got the patent, and that this was unknown to their testator, as also to William May, who united with Philip Phillips in a deed to their ancestor, and that he conveyed to the complainants, both of which deeds state the patent to be in William May. Answer of the representatives of Hynes. They in an amended answer, state, that since this matter was stirred, they have discovered that George May, the patentee, conveyed an undivided moiety of said land to Richard Bibb, and the other moiety to General Matthew Walton, who devised the same to his widow, now Mrs. Pope, that Pope and wife, and Bibb had divided, by proper deeds of partition, and the part contained in the conveyance by their ancestor to the complainants, had fallen to Bibb, and they had attained from said Bibb, a conveyance thereof, and then tender and offer a complete title to the complainants, who resist being compelled to take the same, and insist on the rescission of the contract. Amended answer shewing the acquisition of the title, and offering to convey. The court below determined that the chain of title from George May, through Bibb and Walton, was not such as the complainants were bound to receive, and set aside the contract, and decreed that the heirs, executors and devisees of Hynes, should refund the consideration money with interest, which that court settled at a large sum of money. From this decree the defendants below appealed. Decree of the circuit court rescinding the contract. We are satisfied that there was no fraud in the sale from Hynes to the complainants, and no misrepresentation of quality; but there was a mistake in stating the title to be in William May, as all parties then believed it to be, when the patent had issued to George May. *3 Contract acquitted of fraud. Under these circumstances we have felt a dispotion to compel the complainants to accept the title, which the defendants have acquired, believing such a course would be equitable under the circumstances of the case, and have inspected the conveyances for that purpose, and find that we are bound to conclude that the complainants are not bound to accept thereof, because some of the conveyances are not acknowledged and recorded as the law requires, and therefore, their authentications do not prove that they are genuine, and a conveyance from such a chain of title, a party ought not to be compelled to accept. Want of the regular registration of the deeds of conveyance, by which the vendor deduces title, there being no other proof of their execution, is an insuperable objection to compelling the purchaser to receive the conveyance. The conveyances to which we allude in this particular are the deeds from George May to Richard Bibb and Matthew Walton, the first dated the 19th of December, 1797, and the latter the 7th of September, 1799. They were acknowledged before two justices of peace of Dinwiddie county, and State of Virginia, who certified simply, that the grantor acknowledged the same before them, as the law requires, without adding that he also subscribed the same in their presence. They are otherwise well certified and recorded in the proper office. In the case of Hughes v. Wilson, and Womack, Litt. sel. ca. 292, and in M'Connell v. Brown, &c., ibid, 459. We had occasion to consider this question, and it was there held that a deed so acknowledged in a county different from that wherein the land lies, was defective, because the justices did not also certify that it was subscribed in their presence. Certificate of Justices of the Peace, of the acknowledgment of a deed for land, in other counties, must shew the deed was not only acknowledged, but was subscribed in his presence. Feeling sensible that these decisions may materially affect and jeopardize many of the titles in the State, because that from the conveyances that come before us, acknowledged before two justices of the peace, they have seldom or never certified that the grantor also subscribed the same in their presence, we have been led to review these cases critically; willing to expound the law of conveyances, which is a confused mass of legislation, as liberally as possible, ut res magis valeat quam pereat. But after the most attentive reconsideration of these cases, we are constrained to adhere to them as sound law on this point, for the following reasons: first, the act of 1792, 1 Dig. L. K. 340, is explicit in its requisitions, that the party shall "acknowledge and subscribe," the deed "in the presence of two justices of the peace," and that the justices shall "certify the same," and it admits of no construction to escape from the dilemma, and the legislature has the undoubted control of this subject, and may declare what the law shall be even without assigning a sufficient reason therefor. But secondly, there is an obvious reason for the enactment, which no doubt had its influence. It was inserted to identify the grantors, and thereby to prevent any from making such acknowledgments in the names of others, without furnishing the means of detection, and thus grants made by persons, by fraudulent substitution, were intended to be guarded against. *4 Former decision that it is necessary for the justice to certify the deed was subscribed as well as acknowledged in in his presence, discussed and approved. But as the conveyances in the cases of Hughes v. Wilson and Womack, and M'Connell v. Brown, were both executed in this State, we have been led to examine whether foreign deeds may not escape these decisions. To warrant this exception, we have turned our attention to the act of 1776, 1 Dig. L. K. 306, and find that it regulates only conveyances made out of the State, and that it provides for acknowledgments alone, before two justices of the peace, and says not a word about subscribing, and if that act is in force in this respect, it will exactly embrace the case in question. But on examining the subsequent statutes of Virginia, we are of opinion that it is not in force. The act of 1785, in force after the first day of January, 1787, 1 Dig. L. K. 307, declares, "nor shall such conveyance be good against a purchaser, for a valuable consideration not having notice thereof, or any creditor, unless the same writing be acknowledged by the party or parties, who shall have sealed and delivered it, or be proved by these witnesses to be his, or her or their act, before the general court, or before the court of that county, city, or corporation, in which the land conveyed or some part thereof, lieth, or in the manner hereinafter directed." These last expressions evidently include all deeds, the manner of recording which is "thereinafter directed," and the words evidently exclude any other mode of authentication, and in whatsoever manner deeds before that act might be acknowledged by grantors residing out of the State, thereafter all are brought to the rule prescribed by the act of 1785, and it thus virtually, but effectually, repeals the act of 1776, in all the cases in the latter act provided for, and in its subsequent provisions, it expressly directs how conveyances by grantors residing without, for lands within the State, shall be authenticated. Act of '96 1 Dig. L. K. 360, providing the mode of authenticating conveyances, out of the state, and not requiring the deeds to be subscribed before the justices of the peace, was repealed by the act of '85, 1 Dig. L. K. 307. And in all the modes there (by the act of '85), pointed out, justices of the peace, without a commission, are wholly omitted; of course, thereafter, no acknowledgment before them would entitle a deed to record, except such justices were empowered by a commission issued by the clerk of the court where the deed was to be recorded, and in the case before us, no such commission was issued. That act of '85, required a commission to be issued by the clerk of the court where the deed was to be recorded, to the justices of the peace, to receive the acknowledgment. Thus stood the law till 1792, when our first act before noticed was passed. That, after providing for the acknowledgment of deeds before two justices of the peace, by grantors residing without the county where the land lies, in the next section, allows grantors also, who reside without the State, to proceed in the "same manner" as those within the State, and without the county, were allowed to do. But in this act the words "subscribe," as well as ""acknowledge" is inserted, which we have seen, we are not at liberty to expunge or disregard. The deeds in question must be brought within it to be good, and they can not be brought within it, because the justices have not certified that the grantor subscribed the deed as well as acknowledged it in their presence. The legislature have once thought and decided, that this law with the word ""subscribe" in it, as requisition, was politic. It still remains for that department of the government, and not this, to decide on the policy of its continuance, when its provisions are so frequently disregarded by the justices of the peace, who attempt to act under it. It is our duty to declare what the law is, regardless of the consequences that may flow from its administration. *5 Act of Kentucky of '92, does not require the commission to the justices, but requires the deed shall be subscribed before them, and so they must certify. As the complainants can not, therefore, be compelled to accept the conveyances as tendered, and there was a mistake in making the contract, and that a great one, as to where the title really resided at the time, it will follow from the principles which govern courts of equity, that they are entitled to a rescission of the contract, especially as they have no warranty, but were induced to take the supposed title, and rely on it alone. If they had a warranty, they might be compelled to rely thereon, till an eviction happened. If there were a covenant of warranty in the deed, the purchaser might be compelled to await an eviction, and rely on that, but there being no warranty, the contract rescinded. The question then arises to what are they entitled? They can not be entitled to the value of the land now, or at any subsequent period, because, as we have said, the grantor was not guilty of misrepresenting the title, knowing its true situation to be otherwise. They are, therefore, entitled to have the consideration money refunded with its interest and no more. On the rescission of a contract for land, because of defect of title, of which the vendor was mistaken, and innocently the consideration money, with interest, and not the value of the land, is the measure of recovery. Here an important question arises, as to what that sum really is? The conveyance in usual form declares the consideration to be five shillings. The complainants charge the consideration to be $1,250. The defendants declare their ignorance of what the consideration really is, and rely upon the deed as fixing it. To get around this, the complainants do not attempt to aver or prove that there was any fraud or mistake in drafting the deed, but allege that there were sundry mutual dealings between them and the defendant's testator, and that when they took this land from his, he, the said testator entered a charge therefor in his books, at the price of $1,250, which was the real consideration, and call upon the executors to produce the books of the testator which is done, and on them, a charge is found to this effect against the complainants. The consideration stated in the deed, in such case is conclusive between the parties, unless fraud or mistake in writing the deed be alleged and proved. "1796, to 2,500 acres of land, L15, per hundred, L>>>>>375." The account still remains open, and there stands a small balance against the complainants, still appearing due. This entry instead of the deed was taken by the court as proving what the consideration really was, and the court decreed the amount accordingly. Can this evidence control the deed, or is the deed conclusive till the evidence of equal grade is produced? The law has been long settled, since the days of Coke, that the consideration of a deed is conclusive, as well as the other parties thereof, unless it is impeached for fraud or mistake, nor can the consideration be disproved by evidence inferior thereto. *6 Averments and evidence offered to prove the consideration greater than that declared in the conveyance. If a conveyance expresses a consideration and also divers other considerations, without stating what they are, it is competent to aver and prove what those considerations really are. Where the deed recites one consideration and divers others, without specifying them; what those considerations were, may be averred and proved. Some authorities have gone so far, when one consideration alone is stated, as to allow averment and proof of another additional consideration. Whether this last position is tenable, is by some decisions rendered questionable. But whether it be, or be not correct, the additional consideration proved, must be one of a different character or quality, and not a simple increase of the same character added to the consideration named, such as when the conveyance said one dollar, to add thereto by inferior proof, one thousand. The consideration expressed can not be lessened, and of course it can not be swelled, by adding, by inferior evidence, one dollar to another. Query of the competency of proving an additional and different consideration. It can not be averred and proved the consideration recited was greater in the same kind, without alleging fraud or mistake. Nor will this entry in the books of the testator be counted evidence of sufficient grade to control and add to the deed. The parties by the most solemn instrument which they were capable of making, fixed what the consideration really is, and it must be held conclusive, when assailed by such an entry as this, which is no more than a new memorandum which has been often held insufficient to overrule and vary a solemn instrument under seal. See Roberts on frauds, 118, 119, in note; 3 Starkie evi. 1004, 1006, and authorities there cited.  Morris v. Morris, 2 Bibb, 311. This is a contest between the same parties or privy to the deed. Strangers, it is true, can not be concluded by it. As to them it is res inter alias acta, and they may add to, vary, contradict or disprove it altogether. But we have met with no case, which tolerates parties or privies to do this, without the allegations of fraud or mistake, are made and supported for the purposes of admitting the inferior evidence. Entry in the books of the vendor, wherein he charged the land at a higher sum than that recited in the deed, is inferior evidence of the consideration and can not prevail against the recital. It therefore, follows, from the way in which the complainants have prepared their case, although they are entitled to a rescission of the contract, they can only recover their simple five shillings with its interest, a recovery scarcely equal to a pound of flesh. Decree for rescission of the contract for complainant, and for his five shillings consideration money, with interest. The decree is reversed with costs, and the cause remanded with directions to enter such decree as shall conform to the principles of this opinion. Absent the Chief Justice. Chapeze, for plaintiffs; Wickliffe, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Hyne's Representatives v. Campbell 6 T.B.Mon. 286, 22 Ky. 286, 1827 WL 1679 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
