(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 252,  17 Ky. 252 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1549 (Ky.)) Yel Flg Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Shackleford &c. v. Fountain's Heirs. Dec. 20, 1824. *1 Judgments, Replevin Bonds, Executions, Void and Voidable, Clerical Mistakes, Amendments. APPEAL FROM THE LOGAN CIRCUIT; HENRY P. BROADNAX, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 244 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(B) Parties 228k244 k. Designation of Parties. Most Cited  Cases A judgment in favor of J. F.'s heirs, without naming them individually, is not void. Judgment 228 k 306 228 Judgment 228VIII Amendment, Correction, and Review in Same Court 228k302 Nature of Errors or Defects 228k306 k. Clerical Errors. Most Cited Cases Where a judgment is in favor of certain heirs, without naming them, and the names are contained in the original record, and their omission was a clerical mistake, the judgment may be amended by inserting them. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a writ of error coram vobis, brought to set aside an execution and replevin bond. The defendants, now appellees, pleaded, in nullo est erratum, and the court below gave judgment dismissing the writ with damages and costs, from which the plaintiffs below have appealed. Judgment in favor of J. F's heirs, without naming them individually, is not void, and is, therefore, capable of execution, and no execution or replevin bond can be quashed for strictly pursuing it. The only supposed error relied on as sufficient to vacate the execution and replevin bond, is, that judgment was entered, the execution issued, and the replevin taken, in the name of Jeseph Fountain's heirs, without naming them individually. If the court below rendered such judgment, even if it is erroneous, we can not say that it is void for uncertainty. If it is not void, it must be capable of execution, and no execution or replevin bond ought, therefore, to be quashed for pursuing it strictly. If, however, the heirs of Joseph Fountain were rightly and individually named in the original record, but omitted by the clerk in the judgment and execution, as appears by the petition of the appellants to be the case here, we entertain no doubt that the judgment and all subsequent proceedings are amendable as other clerical misprisions, by inserting the names of the heirs in the proceedings throughout, the record itself being a sufficient warrant and guide to the amendment. If the names of the heirs are contained in the original record, and their omission in the judgment was a clerical mistake, that judgment and all subsequent proceedings, may be amended by inserting them.--Argu. The judgment of the court below is, therefore, correct, and must be affirmed with costs and damages on the damages given in that court. Crittenden, for appellants; Monroe, for appellees. Ky.App. 1824. Shackleford v. Fountain's Heirs 1 T.B.Mon. 252, 17 Ky. 252, 1824 WL 1549 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 115 END OF DOCUMENT
