(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 311,  10 Ky. 311 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1073 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thomas Ward v. David Trimble &c. Apr. 12, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE GREENUP CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 84 2 Abatement and Revival 2VI Waiver of Grounds of Abatement and Time and Manner of Pleading in General 2k84 k. Pleading to Merits and Further Proceedings. Most Cited Cases Pleading 302 k 110 302 Pleading 302III Responses or Responsive Pleadings in General 302III(B) Dilatory Pleas and Matter in Abatement 302k110 k. Operation and Effect of Plea or Answer and Waiver  or Abandonment Thereof. Most Cited Cases The filing of a plea in bar is a waiver of a plea in abatement. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an action of replevin brought in the court below, in which the defendant's appeared and filed an avowry for rents in arrear, and the suit was continued at the costs, and on the motion of the plaintiff. At a subsequent term the defendants moved the court to quash the writ and dismiss the suit, because the true species of action was not endorsed. The court sustained the motion and dismissed the suit. This question is now presented for revision in this court. Although replevin is one of the personal actions embraced by the provisions of the act of assembly,  1 Litt. 192, which requires the true species to be endorsed,"?? on pain of being dismissed with costs," yet we apprehend the motion of the defendants below came too late in the present instance. The effect of such a motion is only an abatement of the suit, and in conformity with the well known principles of the common law, as well as the spirit of the statutes regulating the practice, in this state, it ought to be made before a plea to the merits. Such a plea has always been held a waiver of defects which might abate the writ. And although the statute secures the right of dismissing the suit, yet that time does not remain for an illimitable period pending the suit, and ought to be confined to an hour before the parties are put to the expense and trouble of preparing to meet a plea to the merits. After a plea to the merits no abatable matter can be urged, such plea is a waiver of every thing in abatement. The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings agreeably to this opinion. Bibb for appellant. Ky.App. 1821. Ward v. Trimble 3 A.K.Marsh. 311, 10 Ky. 311, 1821 WL 1073 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
