(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 124,  20 Ky. 124 (Ky.),  1827 WL 2590 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Coyle's Executrix v. Satterwhite's Adm'r. Jan. 25, 1826. *1 Pleading. Orders for Property. Notice. Bills of Exchange. APPEAL FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 11 56 Bills and Notes 56I Requisites and Validity 56I(A) Form and Contents of Bills of Exchange, Drafts, Checks, and Orders 56k11 k. Designation of Medium of Payment. Most Cited  Cases An order, payable in goods or chattels, although in the form of a bill of exchange, is not such, nor are the rules relative to the obligations of the parties to a bill applicable to it. Bills and Notes 56 k 162 56 Bills and Notes 56VI Negotiability 56k162 k. Medium of Payment. Most Cited Cases An order payable in merchandise is not negotiable. Bills and Notes 56 k 412 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k411 Sufficiency of Notice of Nonpayment and of Protest 56k412 k. Diligence in General. Most Cited  Cases The holder of an order on a third person for the payment of property is not required to exercise the same degree of diligence in giving the drawer notice of nonpayment by the drawee in order to preserve his liability as in the case of bills of exchange. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] Statement. This is an action of assumpsit tried on the general issue, and judgment rendered for the plaintiff below, and an appeal prayed. The declaration sets out a demand created by the sale and assignment of a note by the plaintiff's intestate to the testator of the defendant, for the price of which, said testator owed a balance of $400, due in hemp yarn at eight cents per pound, payable on demand. It then sets forth, that the plaintiff, (or rather his predecessor in administration, the present plaintiff being an administrator de bonis non), demanded the yarn, and that the testator of defendants, drew an order for it on Thomas H. Pindell, of the following tenor: Declaration on a contract in consideration of a promissory note assigned to pay so much in hemp yarn for which an order was drawn on another but not accepted or paid. "Thomas H. Pindell, Sir, Please to pay to the executors of William Satterwhite, dec'd, four hundred dollars, in yarn at 8 cents per lb., and this shall be deemed your sufficient receipt for the same, agreeably to the contract between you and myself. Lexington, Sept. 10, 1814?? C. COYLE." That the representatives of Satterwhite presented this order, and Pindell would not accept or pay it, of which Coyle had notice; and that Pindell had no funds of the drawer in his hands at the time the order was drawn; and that Coyle still failed to pay the yarns. *2 Upon the trial, the principal questions which seem to have arisen proceeded from the parties treating this order as a bill of exchange. It was insisted that due diligence was not used in prosecuting it; in causing it to be protested; and giving notice to the drawer; and that the evidence conduced to prove, a reasonable expectation in Coyle that the bill would be honored; and, therefore, he was warranted in drawing it, and entitled to due diligence and notice. These same questions have been repeated in this court. Holder of order for the payment of property is not required to use the diligence and give notice as in case of bills of exchange to entitle him to his action against the drawer. On one palpable ground we dismiss the whole of that part of the controversy. This writing is not a bill of exchange. It does not come within the previous of the law merchant, and none of its doctrines can be applied to it. It is too well settled to need the citation of authority, that it is essential to a bill of exchange, that it should be drawn for money, and all drafts or orders drawn for other commodities, operate only as an authority to receive the contents, and the holder of them is not bound to apply either the speed, or the formalities required in conducting a bill of exchange, and when they sue must resort to the original cause of action; and such was the case of this order. In this view, this controversy is brought down to one of great plainness and no difficulty. The declaration is based on the original contract and consideration, and demand arising by virtue thereof. So far as it sets out this writing, it can only be considered as shewing a good and valid demand of the yarn, and not as taking the order for the base of the action. The evidence conduced to shew the original contract, and the use made of the draft, established a clear but unsuccessful demand of the yarn. In such case the action is not to be on the dishonored and unpaid order, as in case of bills, but on the original consideration and contract. There is, therefore, no error in the judgment of the court below, and it must be affirmed with costs and damages. Wickliffe and Cowan, for appellant; Crittenden and Chinn, for appellee. Ky.App. 1826. Coyle's Ex'x v. Satterwhite's Adm'r 4 T.B.Mon. 124, 20 Ky. 124, 1827 WL 2590 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
