(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 50,  21 Ky. 50 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1500 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wood and Wife v. Lee. Jun. 1, 1827. *1 Dower. Devises. Rent. Parol Evidence. Compromise. Executors. Guardians. Accounts. Pleading in Chancery. APPEAL FROM THE MASON CIRCUIT; ADAM BEATTY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 91 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k90 Custody and Management of Estate 162k91 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Where it appears by the will that a testator intended that his family should be kept together, and his children educated and supported out of the same funds, a separate account for each child need not be kept by the executor. Executors and Administrators 162 k 473(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XI Accounting and Settlement 162XI(B) Proceedings for Accounting 162k473 Actions for Accounting, and Administration Suits 162k473(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases A settlement of an executor with the county court, after the commencement of a suit against him for a settlement, is invalid. Executors and Administrators 162 k 473(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XI Accounting and Settlement 162XI(B) Proceedings for Accounting 162k473 Actions for Accounting, and Administration Suits 162k473(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Though a settlement by an executor with the county court, after a bill was filed to compel settlement, is invalid, an agreement of counsel that such settlement shall have the same effect as if made before the bill was filed gives it the same operation. Executors and Administrators 162 k 501 162 Executors and Administrators 162XI Accounting and Settlement 162XI(D) Compensation 162k501 k. Proceedings and order for allowance. Most Cited  Cases Under a statute providing that executors and administrators shall be allowed in their accounts all reasonable charges and disbursements incurred in administering the estate, and in extraordinary cases may be allowed such recompense for their personal trouble as the court passing their accounts shall judge reasonable, the compensation to be allowed to an administrator is discretionary with the county court, and will not be interfered with by the court of appeals, except in cases of excessive and flagrant allowance. Appeal and Error 30 k 266(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(C) Exceptions 30k266 Exceptions to Rulings, Report, or Findings of  Referee, Commissioner, or Auditor 30k266(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases An error in the compensation allowed to the executor or administrator, on interlocutory decree in the court below, may be excepted to in the appellate court, though the commissioner's report was not excepted to in the other court. Compromise and Settlement 89 k 23(2) 89 Compromise and Settlement 89I In General 89k23 Evidence 89k23(2) k. Admissibility. Most Cited Cases Where an agreement of compromise recites that whereas great difficulties have arisen between the parties, which the agreement is to remedy, parol evidence is admissible to show that a certain claim was among the difficulties so settled. Dower and Curtesy 136 k 89 136 Dower and Curtesy 136III Rights and Remedies of Surviving Spouse 136k89 k. Actual admeasurement or allotment. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 136k91) Dower should be assigned out of each tract of the testator's land, and not one entire tract allotted as dower;  but where one entire tract, which had been devised specifically to one of several devisees, was thus taken as dower, such distributee should be indemnified for the back rents out of the general fund, or by the other devisees, though the dowager had married the executor, who was guardian for said devisee. Evidence 157 k 11 157 Evidence 157I Judicial Notice 157k11 k. Historical facts. Most Cited Cases The prices of lands in Kentucky and Ohio are noticed by the court as a part of the history of the country. Evidence 157 k 397(1) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k397 Contracts in General 157k397(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Parol evidence is inadmissible to contradict or vary the terms of a contract, in the absence of either fraud, accident, or mistake in its procurement. Evidence 157 k 417(9) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k417 Matters Not Included in Writing or for Which It Does  Not Provide 157k417(9) k. Contracts in general. Most Cited  Cases An agreement recited that "great difficulties had arisen," but did not set forth what the difficulties were.  Held, that parol evidence was admissible to show that a certain claim was among the difficulties, and settled by the agreement. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 In the month of April, 1794, Arthur Fox, then claiming a considerable estate in lands, some slaves and personal estate, departed this life, having previously made his last will and testament. Will of Arthur Fox. In the will, he devised to his widow two slaves and their increase, by name, and a tract of land of about 463 acres, adjoining the town of Washington, on which he resided at his death, during her life or widowhood. Devises to the widow. Two in-lots, with their appurtenances, and four out-lots in the town of Washington, he directed to be sold, and the money arising therefrom to be applied to paying his debts, and the balance to be appropriated in building other necessary buildings on the tract of land devised to his wife, for the accommodation of his family. He also bequeathed to his wife, without limitation, six cows and calves, all his hogs, and a horse. To his daughter Betsey he bequeathed two negro girls, by name, a good bed and furniture, two cows and calves, and a tract of land on the Ohio below the mouth of Locust creek, specially described. Bequests to his daughter Betsey. To his daughter Polly he assigned two slaves, by name, a bed and furniture, two cows and calves, and a tract of land adjoining that devised to his daughter Betsey. Bequests to his daughter Polly. To his son Arthur he devised a tract of land on the Ohio at the mouth of Lee's creek, and two slaves. Bequests to his son Arthur. To his daughter Matilda, described in the will as one with which his wife was enceinte, and who was born after the making of the will and before his death, he devised an entry for 800 acres of land, if the land should be obtained thereby, on the Ohio river, above the mouth of Bracken, also the tract of land adjoining Washington, after the termination of his wife's estate therein; and also one slave, by name, and another, to be the first child that a certain slave bequeathed to his wife should have. Bequests to his daughter Matilda, now the wife of Wood. Part of a disputed tract adjoining the farm devised to his wife, if obtained, he directed to be sold and the money laid out in educating his children. Devises for the education of his children. His interest in an entry of 20,000 acres, (being two-thirds), entered in the name of John Craig, he directed to be sold, and the money laid out in the education of his children in the best manner. His military lands north-west of Ohio, to which he was entitled by location, he directed to be equally divided among his children, at the discretion of his executors, after some claims thereon were satisfied. Military lands. After directing sundry claims for land to be given in discharge of some of his contracts, he directs the rent of his station on Lee's creek to be appropriated to the education of his children--and his executors are directed to sell any of his military lands in order to educate his children in the best manner. Farther devises for the education of his children. *3 He finally directed all his lands not particularly mentioned should be sold for the best price that could be had, and the money laid out to the best advantage for his children. Henry Lee, the present appellee, and two others were appointed executors. Lee alone qualified, the rest declining to act. Lee appointed executor. In the same year (1794), after his will was recorded, his widow renounced the provisions of the will in the county court of Mason, according to law, and the court forthwith appointed commissioners to assign her dower out of the estate. These commissioners proceeded to assign the tract of land adjoining Washington, which was first devised to the widow, during her life or widowhood, and afterwards to Matilda, and also all the aforenamed lots in Washington to her as dower of the whole estate in lands in Kentucky, and declined assigning dower in or for the lands north-west of Ohio, and also two slaves, one of which had been previously devised, to her first, and the remainder over to Matilda. This allotment was returned to court, approved, and put to record in May, 1795, and the widow took possession accordingly. Widow renounces the provisions of the will and obtains an assignment of dower. In December, 1795, Lee, the executor married the widow, and removed her and her family to his own estate, and proceeded to rent out and use at pleasure the lands and slaves assigned as dower, and in other respects to execute the will of his testator. Lee, the executor, and the testator's widow intermarry. At the January court, 1797, the executor Lee, now husband of the widow, was appointed guardian by the county court, for his stepson, the devisee Arthur Fox, and at January court, 1799, he was in like manner appointed guardian for the other children, Betsey, Polly and Matilda. Lee appointed guardian of testator's children. All the affairs of the estate appear to have passed on quietly, each acquiescing in and not doubting the legality of the dower as thus assigned until the year 1812, when Arthur Fox, the devisee, had come to mature age, Betsey, the eldest daughter, had intermarried with Richard Graham, Polly with Lawson Dobyns, and Matilda, the youngest child, with Andrew Wood. It was then discovered as was supposed, that the assignment of dower to Mrs. Fox, now Mrs. Lee, was illegal, not only because a portion of the real estate could not be assigned in lieu of the whole dower in the estate, when the allotment ought to have been of dower by parcels or portions of each tract; but because the county court at the date of the allotment had no power to make it--and the assignment as it stood, appeared to bear unequally on the specific devises to Matilda. Objections to the assignment of dower. The devisees or some of them accordingly applied to the county court, now possessing, by a statute passed subsequent to the first allotment, unquestionable power, for a new appointment of commissioners, and a new allotment of dower. *4 New appointment of commissioners by the county court to assign the dower. These commissioners commenced the undertaking and proceeded as far as the slaves; but when they came to the lands, great and new difficulties arose in the way, not of Lee only, but in the road of the devisees. The slaves had now increased to nearly fifty in number, which increased the share of Mrs. Lee. And Lee, if put to the legal rule, and compelled to account for two-thirds of the rent of the farm adjoining Washington and the lots in town, which he had hitherto enjoyed as the supposed dower of his wife, retorted the claim of dower to the lands and rents thereof, in the specific devises to Betsey, Polly and Arthur, and also to the whole lands undevised, including those which he had sold as executor, those remaining on hand, and some which had been sold by the testator, the dower whereof was not relinquished, and which if enforced, must bring back the grantees upon the estate by force of their warranties. Difficulties in executing the commission. Surrounded with those difficulties, the devisees themselves paused and began to negotiate, and ultimately presented to Lee, written terms of accommodation, which he accepted, in which they agree to give him seven thousand dollars, in full for his claim to dower, in right of the wife, to be paid by each in proportion to the value of their specific devises, and Lee and wife to relinquish all further claim, and to surrender the possession of the farm adjoining Washington, to Wood and wife. Compromise of the claim of dower. After this, Wood and wife filed this bill claiming the rents of the farm adjoining Washington as belonging to their specific devise, from Lee, and also requiring Lee to settle up his accounts as guardian of the heirs and executor of the estate of Arthur Fox, deceased. The rest of the heirs and devisees as well as Lee, were, pro forma, made parties to this bill. Bill of Wood, for the rents of the farm, which had been all assigned and enjoyed by Lee and his wife as dower, and for a settlement of the executor and guardianship accounts against Lee, uniting the other devisees pro forma. The court below decreed against the claim for the rents of the farm while she held it as dower, and after settling up the accounts with Lee, as executor and guardian, there appeared a balance in his favor on each account, and for Wood's proportion of these balances the court rendered a decree against him and his wife in favor of Lee, from which decree Wood and wife have appealed. Decree of the circuit court for Wood and wife against Lee, for the balance on the settlement. We concur with the court below in disallowing the claim for the rents of the farm devised over to the complainant Matilda, and enjoyed by Lee as dower. If this claim was considered apart from, and uninfluenced by the compromise, the decree would not be of that favorable character to Lee, which his adversaries seem to suppose. It was long the impression of the county courts in this country, that they were authorized to assign dower, and the mistake seems to have arisen from the practice in Virginia before the separation of the two states. The county courts of Virginia had an undoubted right to assign dower; for they possessed jurisdiction of matters of common law and chancery, dower included, and by proper pleadings could act therein, and in many cases they acted in a summary way on these matters. *5 County courts of Virginia had jurisdiction to assign dower, and it was supposed for years after the separation, our courts had also the power, and it was exercised years. After the separation, this general jurisdiction of suits, and matters at common law and in chancery was taken away, but the county courts seemed to suppose as testamentary cases, and the estates of intestates were left with them sub modo that they could still assign dower, and they continued the practice long before it was discovered by the constituted authorities of the country, that no such power existed. Discovered the county court had no jurisdiction to have dower assigned. This discovery produced the act of 1803, 3d Litt. L. K. 133, granting the power, long after this assignment was made, and this act was no doubt the result of finding that the practice theretofore exercised without law, was a convenient one. And the power conferred by the act of 1803. In this case, neither the widow, the commissioners appointed by the court, nor the court itself, seemed to doubt of their power; and Lee, who afterwards came to the estate by marriage, seems evidently to have labored under the same mistake, throughout, and there is not the slightest evidence or circumstance in this cause conducing to shew, that he knew better, and yet acted the contrary, and there is nothing therefore, to reach his conscience, or to sustain the charge that in using the estate under the assignment, he did an intentional wrong to his ward, and child of his testator. What then would have been the decree of the chancellor, if applied to, to correct this allotment, because it was made without authority? He would evidently have acted on the equity of the case, and if the allotment or assignment had done no more than what the widow had a right to claim, he would have confirmed the grant, and given to it the legal authority, which before then it did not possess. So that the question would rest upon the quantum, assigned, and the other objections made to this assignment, to-wit: that one entire parcel or tract could not be assigned in lieu of dower in the whole land to the prejudice of one devisee. An assignment of dower was made by the county court before it had jurisdiction, and the estate accordingly held in good faith for many years. On the discovery of the defect, the chancellor would confirm what had been thus done without authority. It is admitted that the widow ought to be endowed by parcels, and that the chancellor would correct this error. Dower shall be assigned by parcels out of each tract, and not one entire tract allotted for dower in all the estate. But what correction would he apply? He would in future take the dower of the tract first assigned, and as to time past, he would have assessed the rents of the remaining two-thirds, and also the rents of one-third of the remaining estate, and if the former exceeded the latter, he would only have compelled the tenant in dower to have accounted for the excess; or if the latter exceeded the former, he would have made up the deficiency to the tenant. By this rule Lee in the present case could only have been compelled to account for the rents, which he might have received, so far, and so far only, as they might have exceeded one-third of the rents of the whole estate, and not for the entire amount of two-thirds of the whole rent. *6 On the correction of an endowment of the widow, of all one tract, instead of a third of each tract, she or the owner of the other tracts, shall pay the other the difference between the rent of the tract she held and one-third of all, whereof she was dowable. But it may be said that this would have borne partially on the devisee Matilda, by having the dower to fall exclusively on her specific devise. To this there would have been a plain and adequate redress. Matilda for this, would have been entitled to a claim against the general estate for remuneration, or to a right of contribution against the rest of the devisees for this disproportionate charge against her estate. For as the claim of dower was valid and must fall somewhere on the estate devised, or descended, the chancellor would have equalised it among the devisees, and if it should have been on one, he could call the rest to his aid. Where, in such case the tract of land thus incumbered with the whole claim of dower, had been devised to one of numerous devisees, that devisee shall be indemnified for the back rents out of the general fund, or by other devisees. To this mode of settling this matter, this objection has been made in argument. Lee was the guardian of the infant Matilda, and as such represented her rights, and was therefore bound to act legally for her; and it was therefore his duty so soon as he was appointed guardian, to remove this partial weight of dower, which was coming to himself from her specific devise, by procuring a proper assignment, and rectification of the mistake; and not having done so, he must now bear the whole consequences of the loss. The conclusion does not follow from the premises. That he was bound to represent his ward legally, must be admitted, and if he had knowingly placed upon her, the whole burden of dower, or kept it there, he ought to be compelled to rectify the matter and redress the wrong. But if he had done this against conscience, it would not have barred him from asserting the whole claim of dower against the residue of the estate. His wards when asking equity, would have been bound to do equity, and to have permitted him to come in for his rightful share elsewhere. If this be the rule, even when the error was unconscientiously committed, a fortiori, the same rule must prevail, when the act was done through a mere innocent mistake of law. For, as before supposed, this all happened without a suspicion of wrong. One circumstance among many others which need not be noticed, is conclusive of the fact. Lee, as executor, sold lands and appropriated the proceeds to the payment of the debts, and the education of the children as directed by the will. In these lands, he had a right of dower through his wife, on the supposition that he had no dower already assigned. He conveyed lands in discharge of his testator's contracts, and all this time he claimed no part of the money and retained not his dower, thus shewing clearly, that he supposed that right already legally satisfied. While, therefore, the right of Matilda is admitted, to have this mistake (and a mere innocent mistake it is) rectified, she can not place the whole loss upon Lee. His right to the entire dower of the estate was clear, and while he would be compelled to rectify, retrospectively, the whole devisees would have to bear that rectification, and Lee could in no event have been compelled to sustain the loss, further than the rents which he had received, might have exceeded his dower claim upon the whole estate, and whether there would have been any excess, from any thing apparent in this record, can not be ascertained. *7 Dowager thus wrongfully endowed of one entire tract, which had been devised to her infant daughter, married the executor, and he was appointed guardian for the devisee, and so acted, yet continued to hold and enjoy the land as dower, in right of his wife, till this ward having married, she and her husband demands an account of the two thirds of the rents:--Not allowed; the wrong having been by an innocent mistake, the devisee, who had been thus burthened, shall look to the devisees of the other lands for remuneration. Hitherto we have considered this case as not affected by the compromise made in 1814, and we shall now ascertain the effects of that compromise upon this controversy. Compromise. Here it is insisted for the appellants that this writing does not in terms express that the consideration of the agreement is the claim for rents; nor is it said that that claim is extinguished or released; and therefore, in its own terms it affords no aid to the appellee, and that parol proof, which is offered here, is wholly inadmissible to add to, or vary, or contradict its terms and therefore the claim is still at large. Objection to the extension of the compromise agreement to the past rents. We admit the general rule, that parol proof can not be used to vary written instruments, in all its force, and we will also waive the inquiry whether Lee, standing in this attitude of a defendant here, and resisting the claim, can, or can not avail himself of any exception to the rule, and on parol proof to defeat a recovery, which in some cases is allowed; and still we conclude, that to tolerate a recovery, while this argument lay in the way would be unconscientious. Parol evidence not competent to vary a written agreement to support a demand, but may be sometimes used to resist a recovery. We have seen that Lee was only liable for excess of rents, if any, which he might have received, and the estate itself must bear the residue, and that on rectifying the error, the dower of Mrs. Lee would fall on the whole estate, both for time past and to come, which must be a severe fetter on the enjoyment of it by the heirs, for the remaining life of Mrs. Lee. On the assignment of dower, the dowager becomes entitled to back rents. It is worthy of remark, that if Mrs. Lee had not renounced the provisions of the will, her right of dower generally in the undevised lands, would have been somewhat dangerous under this will. For no devise of lands is made to her expressly in lien of dower, and our statute only compels widows to abide by the will as to chattels and slaves, and in many cases a widow may have dower of lands, though she be a devisee of lands to a considerable amount, and the only restraint to her claim is to put her to her election either to claim against or under the will; and that election in some cases she will not be compelled to make, as held at the present term in the case of Bailey & wife v. Duncan's executor; and the only way to confine Mrs. Lee to the devise, would have been to compel her to make her election to abide by the will, if they could. The claim therefore against Lee, held by Woods & wife, was contingent and small, while the claim of Lee was large and appalling to the heirs, especially as some of them had sold part of their lands, and one had leased his share for fifteen years, and they must have become responsible to their grantees, if dower had fallen upon their lands. *8 Widow is entitled to dower of the undevised lands, though she be a large devisee of other real estate not expressed to be in lieu of dower without renouncing the provision of the will. The construction therefore, which the appellants put upon this transaction of compromise, supposes that it has entirely a one sided bearing--that it has extinguished Lee's claims--but left their own in existence--that Lee's arms are taken and his hands are tied, while his adversary possesses his weapons with a full power to strike. The transaction itself speaks a different language. Lee himself now offers to rescind the compromise and take the original grounds; but the other heirs disagree to it. Whether the appellants have or have not yet the right to come upon the whole estate, and the other heirs and devisees, to equalize this claim for dower, which heretofore has borne hard upon the share of Matilda, or whether this compromise has barred his claim as to them we need not inquire. For although the appellants have made them defendants, it is only as to executorial and guardian's accounts, and there is no claim set up for contribution as to these rents against them. The act requires the widow to elect between the provisions of the will and of the law, only as to chattels and slaves, and so she do not claim under and against the will, she may have both her devises and dower. But all the parol proof which has been offered here, we conceive is admissible consistent with the general rule, which excludes its effect on written instruments. The agreement itself recites, that-- Where an instrument of compromise, recited, that whereas great difficulties had arisen, about what did not clearly appear, on a controversy afterwards whether a certain claim was included--held that parol evidence was competent to prove the claim was among the difficulties, and so settled. "Whereas great difficulties have arisen in setting apart the dower attached to the estate of Arthur Fox, deceased, to remedy which, the undersigned legatees of said estate are induced to make the propositions contained in the following article, which if acceded to, we bind ourselves to comply with: We agree to give Mrs. Lee in perpetuity seven thousand dollars, in lieu of her right of dower in said estate, to be paid and secured as hereafter mentioned." The writing then proceeds to provide for the payment, and each binds himself, severally, in proposition to his or her specific devise. Woods agrees to refund to Lee, $441, which Lee had previously given for a claim to part of the farm in contest, and Lee, on their compliance, was to surrender possession of the farm--give up necessary title papers be longing to the estate, and relinquish dower in all. Wood the present appellant some time afterwards executed to Lee his bond, to secure his proportion of the title of some estate taken in lieu of said seven thousand dollars, and that bond recites, that-- "Whereas many difficulties have arisen in settling the claim to dower of the widow of Arthur Fox, deceased, and in order to adjust the same, it has been agreed between the aforesaid Henry Lee, who intermarried with the said widow, and the heirs of the said Arthur Fox, deceased, that the said Lee should receive from the said heirs seven thousand dollars, in lieu of and full satisfaction of the said claim to dower." *9 The instrument then proceeds to guaranty the title to one-fourth of the estate paid to Lee in discharge of part of the seven thousand dollars, the title to which, could not be made owing to the death of Mrs. Graham and the infancy of her children. Now, on reading these instruments, it may be asked what claim of dower was settled. The appelants say, the prospective claim only, and Lee by entering into the writings lost all rights retrospectively. The fair construction is the whole claim past, present and to come. But by these writings we are told some difficulties are settled, and are to sleep forever. What these difficulties are we are not told, because they were not again to be revived. Is it not competent for parol proof to tell what they are, lest some of them should receive and have their effect contrary to the intention of the parties? It certainly is, and when they are ascertained, they are the claims of the appellants against Lee, for the enjoyment of dower wrongfully to their prejudice, and the counter-vailing claim of Lee, ready to fall in consequence thereof, upon the whole estate, which was the occasion no doubt, of some uneasiness to the heirs and devisees. These were therefore adjusted and must be permitted to rest, as to Lee. This is evidently the construction placed on these writings by the appellant Wood himself, after they were shown and before they were executed. He hesitated nearly a year before he would execute them, and the reason assigned for that hesitation was, that he was not willing to relinquish to Lee his claim for rents on the dower farm. At length however, he closed the contract and must now abide the consequences. It seems the construction put upon a writing by one party, before its execution, is competent to explain a latent ambiguity. It is objected against this construction, that Lee, about a year afterwards, drew up and tendered to Wood a release of these rents, while Wood refused to execute, as to the farm, but did so as to the estate in town. To this it may be answered, that this act of Lee, could not alter the effect of the previous transaction, and is accounted for, by Wood's threatening to sue him for the rents. As a measure of greater caution, and to make the first assurance now sure, he drew up and tendered a formal release, which Wood only executed as to the town estate. An application by one party to be released from a demand founded on his adversary's construction of a written agreement, proves nothing. We, therefore, conclude, that the decree of the court below, as to this claim for rents, which is one great object of this suit, is correct. We shall next proceed to the consideration of the bill, so far as it seeks to settle the accounts, of Lee as executor and guardian. Before the bill was filed, Lee had made a settlement of his executorial accounts with the county court, and after finding the bill, he caused an additional settlement to be made and filed in the suit. Before the bill was brought he had never settled with the county court as guardian; but caused a settlement to be made pending this suit, and filed it also. The court below, in rendering the interlocutory decrees does express the opinion, that such settlement, with the county court pendente lite, were as good evidence as those made before, which is contrary to the previous decisions of this court. *10 Settlement of the executor or guardian, with the county court, pending a bill against them on the same matter, is nought-- But that error in opinion, can have no effect on this decree, although the accounts here were referred to commissioners under that error. For on the account settled as guardian, there is an express admission by the complainants' counsel, which is noticed by the court in the final decree, that the account shall be received and have the same weight as it would have had, if made before this suit was brought. The court also notices a similar agreement, as to the additional account as executor. But without such agreement, the items of this account, is not objected to, though it is referred to in an amended bill, and what is more, this settlement is greatly in favor of the complainants, as it gives them large credits, to which they would not be otherwise entitled. But--An agreement of counsel that such settlement shall have the same effect as if made before the bill filed, gives it the same operation. It is also objected to these accounts, that both the executor's and guardian accounts are blended--that is, many items are charged and others credited by Lee, as executor, which ought to have been done as guardian and vice versa. This appears to be the fact. But as the executor and guardian is the same person, and there is no controversy here about interest against Lee, but only about interest in his favor, as he was largely in advance with the estate, as the county court had jurisdiction of his accounts, both as executor and guardian, we perceive no force in this exception, if his accounts are otherwise right. Held to be no objection, under the circumstances here, that Lee's account's as executor and guardian, were not made out altogether separated. It is objected to the accounts, for expenses for boarding, educating, and clothing the children, that they are joint against the whole estate, when the expenses of each child, ought to have been separately charged, and credits given in like manner. When it is contemplated by a testator, that his family shall be kept together, and be supported out of an undivided estate, the rule is, otherwise, whatever may be required in other cases. It would be almost impossible to keep in such case a separate account, and no use could be made of it. It is clear, we conceive from the will of the testator here, that he designed his family to remain together, and be well educated, as is manifest by his general fund provided for the education of the whole, and his expressly directing the profits of one farm, specifically devised to his son, to be applied to the education of the whole, which embraces bringing them up as well as teaching them literature and science. The intention is thus manifested, that all should live on one common stock, till they were able to provide for themselves. When the testator provides for the education of all his children, out of the same funds, and it appears he intended all his family should be kept together, there need not be separate accounts kept for each child. *11 Education of the children, in Fox's will, included the bringing up the children as well as the expenses of their instructions. In the accounts themselves, the complainants attempt to surcharge and falsify many items, most of which, present no legal question, or the attempt has been wholly unsuccessful, and they will therefore, be passed unnoticed, especially as the controversy concerning them, has been rightfully settled by the court below. It has been urged in argument, that the charge for boarding the devisees is enormous, and extended to ages, when the devisees were able to support themselves; that such allowance ought not to be made for any part of the time, or at all events, after the children by their own industry, were able to earn their boarding. It must have escaped the attention of counsel, who used this argument, that the question is not made in the pleadings. The complainants have not only pointed out in their bill, those items which they wish to attack, but also those, which they are willing to admit, and in the latter class, have expressly included the whole charge for boarding. The only remaining questions worth attention, are the following: 1. It is insisted that the compensation allowed to the executor and guardian, is unreasonable and enormous. 2. That the court erred in rendering a decree against the complainants, Wood & wife, for their proportion of the balance found in Lee's favor on the settlement of his accounts; he, not having filed a cross bill, or expressly prayed for such decree. It is true, that the report made in the cause by these latter commissioners, was not excepted to; but the court discuss and settle the principles of Lee's compensation, and give directions to the commissioners in the interlocutory decree, and therefore, any error in the compensation allowed to Lee by the county court, if such exists, is properly presented to us. Where the compensation to the executor and guardian is settled in the interlocutory decree, and the account made up accordingly, the objection can be raised here, though the commissioners report was not excepted to below. The personal estate, proved inadequate to pay the debts, by nearly three hundred dollars. The resources left to maintain and educate the heirs, must then be derived according to the will, from the undevised lands which are directed by the will to be sold. The compensation allowed to Lee consists in the following items. The lands could not be easily sold at all times, especially as the titles were unsettled, and many of the lands undivided, and Lee not waiting to realize these resources, made large advances to the estate, and at all times appears to have had it considerably in arrears to him. When he settled with the county court, a large balance was ascertained to belong due to him, and that court allowed him interest on that balance, for the space of six years. That court further allowed him payment for personal expenses, and in a few instances for his time in travelling from one court house to another, and indeed, from one state to another, to see to and manage the lands of the decedent. In the same account, the debits and credits are added together, and ten per centum commission is allowed him upon the whole amount, including every item of board, interest, time and trouble, on one side, and every payment on the other, thus giving ten per cent. upon all monies which came to his hands, and ten per cent. when it was passed away, and not only so, but every charge which he had against the estate, was thus increased ten per cent; and on all money advanced by him, he thus received first, ten per cent, and then six per centum per annum, for interest. This per centum was, however, removed from many of these articles by the decree of the court below. *12 Allowance for the services of the executor and guardian and for commission for advances and interest. We do not hesitate to say, that Lee, for his management of this estate, merits as great an allowance, as perhaps, should be allowed in any case. The personal estate was not large, and inadequate to pay the debts. The slaves appear to be females, with increasing families, and were at first few in number, and afterwards unprofitable, and indeed expensive. The landed estate was one in embryo--at the death of the testator, large in quantity, yet of very small value, and could only be valuable by being attended to with a burdensome and expensive care, and be thus preserved from intrusion, and their titles be defended, until by growing in value, with the advancement in population and wealth of the two new states in which they were situated, they would become a fortune to each child. Some of the titles to these lands were equitable only; some consisted in parol evidence, and others were undivided interests held in common or jointly with others. These interests were reduced to certainty by Lee, and when the heirs came of age, the estate, according to the estimate of the heirs themselves, was rated at the value of forty-nine thousand dollars as for the minimum, and sixty thousand, as the maximum price. Services performed by Lee in relation to lands. It is evident to all who know the history of this state and that of Ohio, in years past, that if Lee, had disposed of enough of these lands to pay the balance of the debts and educate the family in the manner directed by the will, and at an early period, the estate must have been greatly lessened in value if not expended. Prices of lands noticed by the court as a part of the history of the country. Instead of this, he expended his own money for these purposes, and was every hour in advance with the estate. In short, he had not only the ordinary duties of an executor and guardian to perform, but the part of a manager of the estate and investigator of land titles; and the proof is clear that he performed this part with assiduity, diligence and skill. It is therefore evident, that he is not only to be paid as an executor and guardian, but for other services important and arduous, and his compensation can not be limited by any ordinary rules, which govern cases of executors and guardians only. Moreover, the will of the testator does not leave this estate to be managed according to the legal principles which govern the estates of intestates. An executor and guardian charged by the will with the management of the lands involved in controversy, who performs the duty with skill and diligence, is not limited in his compensation by the ordinary rules. The act of assembly provides, that "executors and administrators shall be allowed in their accounts, all reasonable charges and disbursements, which they shall lay out and expend in the funeral of the deceased, and other their administration, and in extraordinary cases may be allowed such recompense for their personal trouble, as the court on passing their accounts, shall judge reasonable." *13 Act giving the county courts the power to allow the compensation to executors. By this act, the county courts have the power to fix the compensation, and their allowance ought not to be disturbed, unless an evident abuse of their authority appears, or a deception practised upon them by the party passing his accounts is proved, and in this case, the proof on that point adduced by the appellants fails, while that of the appellee shows that his services and expenditures were indeed extraordinary. Allowance made by the county court to executors, &c., will not be disturbed unless there appears to have been an abuse of the authority or an imposition practiced on the court. It seems to be supposed by the appellants, in their bill and arguments, that this allowance of the county court is subject to be reduced by some legal standard which the county court could not transcend. We are aware of no such standard. The judgment of the county court is the measure, subject to correction for the causes already stated. It is true, that the courts of equity, as well as the county courts, both in Virginia and this state, have fixed for their rule, to make their allowances uniform, a per centum, by which they are governed in ordinary cases. Five per centum on money received and disbursed, has been the lowest point. Practice of allowing the executor 5 per cent on the sum passed through his hands does not limit the court to that sum. In some cases, seven and one-half, in others, ten has been allowed. But a gross sum in other cases has been allowed, without regard to any per centum, and in others, a daily allowance or special charges for each act of trouble and time, have been passed; and however the allowance may be made or calculated, its justice is the main enquiry, and unless it is unjust, after the judgment of the county court, it must remain unaltered. A higher commission, gross sum, specific and per diem charges have been allowed in different cases. When tested by these rules, and the circumstances of this case are considered, we can not say that the allowance to Lee ought to be more reduced than it was reduced by the court below, who corrected this per centum by taking it off from many of the expenditures. Put the allowance of interest for the money, advanced, the few days for which Lee charged wages, (and they are very few when he was employed during many), and the per centum allowed him by the court below, together, and we can not say that he will receive too great a reward for what he has done, or that similar services could be procured for the same money. When this court is appealed to for a revision of such an allowance the question is, has too great a sum in all been given? As to the decree against Wood and wife, in favor of Lee, who was defendant, it is a well settled principle of practice, that the chancellor, when called upon by a complainant to settle accounts, will decree the balance in favor of the defendant, if it be in his favor; and why should it not be so? The balance struck, would be conclusive in any future proceedings to recover it, and why turn the defendant around for the mere sake of form, to a new proceeding, which could not be resisted? The chancellor prefers the finishing the whole controversy, and the complainant who demands the settlement of accounts, gives a pledge that he will submit to a decree for the balance, if it be struck against him. *14 When upon the hearing of a bill for an account there appears a balance for the defendant, he may have a decree for it against complainant, without an express prayer for it. It is true, Lee does not expressly pray for such decree in his answer; but he insists on his accounts as a set-off, and claims that the balance is in his favor. Upon the whole case, therefore, we conceive there is no error in the decree of the court below, and it must be affirmed with cost and damages. Haggin, for appellant; Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Wood v. Lee 5 T.B.Mon. 50, 21 Ky. 50, 1827 WL 1500 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
