(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 501,  10 Ky. 501 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1148 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Taylor v. Alexander. Jun. 8, 1821. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(4) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(4) k. Warrant and Survey. Most Cited  Cases A survey executed and recorded extinguishes the authority derived from the warrant;  and no new survey can be made. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 The appellant exhibited his bill in the court below, setting an entry against elder grants. His entry was surveyed in 1798, and on that survey the patent issued. His entry was sustained by the court below, and an interlocutory decree rendered in his favor. On a petition for that purpose, the court below set aside the decree, and the appellee filed an amended answer, setting forth that he had just discovered that the same entry was previously surveyed in 1786, and the survey recorded, and exhibited a copy. On the next hearing, the court dismissed the bill. From that decree this appeal is prayed. A survey made and recorded by the authority of the owner, extinguishes the warrant, and any subsequent survey made thereon is void. According to principles previously settled in this court, a survey, executed and recorded, extinguishes the authority derived from the warrant, and no new survey can be made. The production of the copy is at least prima facie evidence that the survey was made, and that it was done under the authority of the holder, and rests on the other side to shew that the survey was made without his consent or approbation, which in this case has not been done. The only mode, then, of avoiding the effect of it, is, by shewing that the ancient survey covers the ground occupied by the new. For as the eldest is the only legal survey, the patent must be for the same ground, and not for that covered by the unauthorized and void survey. It rested, then, upon the appellant to shew, that the ground patented was that of the old survey; and this he has failed to do. It would seem by the calls of both surveys, when compared, that they are both in the same neighborhood, and probably not far from each other; but the calls are so variant, that they fail of proving identity, and there is nothing else in the record which exhibits to us their true relative position. To render such subsequent survey available, the owner must shew that both surveys cover the same land. The decree must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1821. Taylor v. Alexander 3 A.K.Marsh. 501, 10 Ky. 501, 1821 WL 1148 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
