(Cite as: 7 T.B.Mon. 117,  23 Ky. 117 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1216 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Clinton, &c. v. Phillips' Adm'r. Apr. 22, 1828. *1 Appeal Bonds. Practice in this Court. Damages. Costs. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 392 30 Appeal and Error 30VII Transfer of Cause 30VII(C) Payment of Fees or Costs, and Bonds or Other Securities 30k392 k. Waiver of Security or of Defects. Most Cited  Cases Where a bond is seasonably executed by the proper parties, though it is defective, so as not to secure the appellee effectually, the court will treat the appeal as a real one, so far as to allow the appellee to accept the bond, if he so elect. Appeal and Error 30 k 460(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30IX Supersedeas or Stay of Proceedings 30k460 Operation of Appeal or Writ of Error and Necessity for Security or Allowance 30k460(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where the appeal bond is not executed in the time prescribed, or not by the proper persons, there is no appeal, and the judgment may be executed. Appeal and Error 30 k 467 30 Appeal and Error 30IX Supersedeas or Stay of Proceedings 30k462 Upon Security 30k467 k. Form and Contents of Bond or Undertaking. Most  Cited Cases Where the proper persons in due time execute the appeal bond, the appeal acts as a supersedeas, though there be defects in the bond, which would entitle appellee to a dismissal on motion. Appeal and Error 30 k 784 30 Appeal and Error 30XIII Dismissal, Withdrawal, or Abandonment 30k779 Grounds for Dismissal 30k784 k. Defects in Proceedings for Review. Most Cited  Cases An appeal bond executed by the proper persons in due time, but defective as to its conditions, will not justify striking the cause from the calendar as an unperfected appeal.  A motion to dismiss is the proper mode of taking advantage of the defect. Appeal and Error 30 k 813 30 Appeal and Error 30XIV Dockets, Calendars, and Proceedings, Preliminary to Hearing 30k813 k. Striking Off or Quashing Cause. Most Cited Cases An appeal will be stricken from the docket, where not executed within the time prescribed. Appeal and Error 30 k 813 30 Appeal and Error 30XIV Dockets, Calendars, and Proceedings, Preliminary to Hearing 30k813 k. Striking Off or Quashing Cause. Most Cited Cases Defects in an appeal bond will not be considered on a motion to strike a case from the docket. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Case stated. Phillips brought against Clinton, his warrant of forcible detainer, and succeeded in a verdict in the county. Clinton filed a traverse, and on trial in the circuit court, Phillips again succeeded. Clinton appealed, and executed his appeal bond with his sureties, in the time prescribed by the court, and in the same penalty. Its condition is as follows: *2 "The condition of the above obligation, is such that whereas, the above named Clinton, Downing and Jeremiah Luckett, (the securities), have prayed for, and obtained an appeal from a judgment of the Franklin circuit court, pronounced at their July term, 1825, in a suit wherein the said Ralph Phillips is plaintiff, and the said Moses Clinton defendant: Now if the said Clinton shall duly prosecute said appeal, or shall well and truly pay to the said Ralph Phillips, all such damages and costs, as shall be awarded against him, in case _____ of the said Phillips is affirmed in whole, or in part, dismissed or discontinued, then this obligation to be void, else to remain in full force and virtue." Condition of the appeal bond. After giving this bond, Clinton filed his transcript of the record in this court, and his appeal was docketed accordingly. Before his appeal was here disposed of, Phillips brought his action on the traverse bond, assigning for breach of the non-payment of costs, and the damages which he had sustained by the delay and prosecution of the traverse. Without noticing in detail the pleadings in this action, suffice it to say, that under the leave to give any special matter in evidence, which might have been specially pleaded after Phillips had given in evidence, the record of the traverse in the circuit court, Clinton offered the order granting the appeal, the aforesaid appeal bond, and proof by the clerk of this court, and the transcript in his office, that the appeal was still pending and undisposed of, and made the point that this action on the traverse bond would not lie till the appeal was disposed of. The court below rejected the appeal bond as invalid and affording no evidence that the appeal was prosecuted, and then treated the whole appeal as a nullity, and decided that Phillips was entitled to his action. Phillips accordingly obtained a judgment, and to reverse it, Clinton has prosecuted this writ of error. Decision of the circuit court. In a case where a party has not complied with the order of the court below in executing the bond, inferior courts may treat the appeal as a nullity, and proceed to effectuate their judgments by execution. Where the appeal bond is not executed in the time prescribed, or not by the proper persons, there is no appeal, and the judgment may be executed. It is the invariable practice of this court, when the appeal bond is not executed by the same persons, or within the time prescribed by the order of the court below, to treat such appeals as nullities when docketed here, and to strike them from the docket, instead of dismissing them with the legal consequences of costs and damages. In such cases the inferior courts may treat them in the same way, as cases where the condition on which the appeal was granted, has not been complied with. Such cases will be struck from the docket of this court, without damages or costs, as not causes in court. But where the proper persons, in due time have executed the bond, and that bond is defective in its parties, recitals, or in not securing the appellee in all that he is entitled to, we have been in the practice of treating them as real appeals; and when applied to, to dismiss, because the bond is defective, and we have done so with costs and damages, still taking the distinction between the bonds, which we treat as nullities, and those which are defective, and which may or may not be accepted at the election of the appellee. He may move to dismiss the appeal, because the bond is defective, and thus reject the bond, or he may acquiesce in the bond, and at last, it may be valid in law, to secure to him part of his demand, but not the whole. *3 When the proper persons in due time execute the appeal bond, the case is in court, but may be dismissed on motion and with damages and costs for the insufficiency of the bond. If this distinction, which has long governed the practice of this court, is sound, it seems clearly to follow, that the court below erred in treating this appeal and bond as a nullity, It was a real appeal then pending before this court, but might have been avoided by motion here, until then the appeal was legal. We admit this bond is one which must have fallen in this court on a motion to dismiss the appeal for its defects. Its reciting an appeal by the securities, as well as the principal, and not securing the appellee in the judgment, from which the appeal was prayed, (not to mention others), were apparent defects. But it was still binding on the appellant till avoided by the appropriate remedy. The court ought not, therefore, to have rejected it as a nullity, as it was good evidence to show an appeal pending. In such case the judgment appea??ed from, is suspended and no action can be maintained predicated on the judgment being in force. From this it will also follow, that the action of Phillips on his traverse bond was premature, as the judgment on which his cause of action hung, was suspended, and had no force till the appeal bond disposed of.  Yocumb v. Moore, &c., 4 Bibb, 221. The court ought, therefore, to have instructed the jury that the plaintiff could not recover. Judgment reversed, verdict set aside with costs, and cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiff; Haggin and Loughborough, for defendants. Ky.App. 1828. Clinton v. Phillips' Adm'r 7 T.B.Mon. 117, 23 Ky. 117, 1828 WL 1216 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
