(Cite as: 4 Litt. 346,  14 Ky. 346 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1300 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ewing's Heirs, Administrator, &c. v. Handley's Executors. Fall Term, 1823. *1 FROM THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. PAUL I. BOOKER SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 39 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k39 k. Real Property and Estates and Interests Therein.  Most Cited Cases Whether or not executors have a right to transfer a contract with their testator for land or money, in the alternative, depends upon whether the stipulation for land was broken in the life of the testator. Executors and Administrators 162 k 346 162 Executors and Administrators 162VIII Sales and Conveyances Under Order of Court 162VIII(B) Application and Order 162k345 Order or Decree 162k346 k. Requisites in General. Most Cited  Cases A decree against an administrator, merely declaring slaves not in his hands to be assets of the estate, is erroneous. The decree should direct the sale of the slaves, and that they be given up to be sold under the order of the court. Executors and Administrators 162 k 451(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k451 Trial 162k451(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where one of two executors petitioned that a suit in which they were complainants should be dismissed, and the other executor insisted that it should proceed, a refusal to dismiss was proper. Executors and Administrators 162 k 454 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k454 k. Execution and Enforcement of Judgment. Most Cited Cases Where an administrator pleaded no assets, and judgment was rendered quando, the creditor was entitled to a bill in chancery for the discovery and production of assets. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 127 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k124 Operation and Effect 400k127 k. Improvements and Expenditures. Most Cited  Cases Where a vendee has paid for land and been put in possession, but the vendor cannot make a title and refuses to refund, and the vendee disaffirms the contract and recovers judgment for the purchase money, he is entitled to the excess of the value of the ameliorations above the rents and profits, but not for improvements made after obtaining judgment;  and rents should begin at that time, the improvements to be valued at the time when the judgment at law was rendered. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 203 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(A) As to Each Other 400k203 k. Injuries to Property. Most Cited  Cases A vendee, who has paid for land and been put in possession, and disaffirms the contract because the vendor cannot make title, will be charged with waste committed during his occupancy. Wills 409 k 524(8) 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(B) Designation of Devisees, and Legatees and Their Respective Shares 409k521 Classes 409k524 Time of Ascertainment of  Class 409k524(6) Ascertainment at Termination of  Precedent Estate or Time of Payment or Distribution 409k524(8) k. Subsequent Birth of Children.  Most Cited Cases Where a devise was made to A. during her life, remainder to her children, and on failure of issue to the children of B., a child of B. not born at the time of the death of A., who died without issue, did not take under the will. Wills 409 k 869 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(P) Rights and Remedies of Creditors of Devisees and Legatees 409k869 k. Interests or Rights Which May Be Subjected. Most  Cited Cases A devise of slaves was made to A. for life, with power to distribute them among his children in such manner as he pleased. Held, that a loan of one of said slaves to one of the children for more than five years rendered such slave liable for the debts of said child. Equity 150 k 368 150 Equity 150VII Dismissal Before Hearing 150k368 k. Setting Aside, and Reinstatement of Cause. Most Cited Cases Where defendants applied to have a dismissal of a suit against them set aside, or to reinstate the cause as it stood before the dismissal, and the complainant consented that they should be made parties, and that the cause should be heard upon the state of preparation as it then stood, and upon this offer the petition was overruled, it was held that such ruling was correct. Improvements 206 k 4(1) 206 Improvements 206k4 Compensation 206k4(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where an occupant of lands in good faith, supposing his title to be a legal one, makes improvements, he is entitled to compensation. C. A. WICKLIFFE and M. D. HARDIN for appellants; BIBB and B. HARDIN for appellees. *2 Decided Spring Term, 1823, and suspended on petition for re-hearing, until Spring Term, 1824. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. On the 26th of November, 1789, Charles Ewing contracted to sell to James Handley, two hundred and fifty acres of land, then demarked, and executed his bond with a penalty, binding both himself and his heirs, conditioned to convey the said land, "by a sure and sufficient deed in fee-simple, as soon as a patent could with convenience be obtained for the same; and also, to keep the said Handley in peaceable possession of the same." Handley afterwards took possession thereof and settled his son thereon, and gave him only a verbal grant, permitting him to hold it as a quasi tenant at will, and his son still resides thereon. Many years afterwards, Ewing being embarrassed, departed from that section of the country, never having made a conveyance, and in 1808, Handley commenced a suit at law upon said bond, assigning as a breach, the nonconveyance of the land. After this suit was prepared for trial, Ewing died. A scire facias to revive it was issued against Nathaniel Wickliffe, his administrator, who pleaded that no assets have ever come to his hands. A verdict was found for $1,000 in damages, and a judgment rendered against the administrator for the amount, to be levied of the goods and chattels which were of said decedent at the time of his death, and which should thereafter come to the hands of his administrator, to be administered. In the year 1811, James Handley filed this bill in the Nelson circuit court, against the heirs and administrator of said Ewing, charging that since the judgment, the administrator had received assets and divers sums of money, which he could not prove without a disclosure, and which he claims in satisfaction of his judgment. He also alleges, that at the time he contracted with Ewing, he, Ewing, was possessed of a negro woman, Hannah, as of his own proper estate, who had now nine children, and that said Ewing still possessed her as his own, until the death of his first wife, about the year 1804, and for some years afterwards, when Ewing, to avoid a prosecution, left that section of the country, and then Charles Wickliffe, the father-in-law of Ewing, being the father of his deceased wife, set up claim to these slaves, as his, and that he had only lent them to his daughter after her marriage, which took place in 1786, and by some address, got possession of and still retains them; and that the administrator of Ewing, to favor the children of his deceased sister, being a son of the said Charles Wickliffe, or having a hope to inherit them as part of his father's estate, would not take possession of them or claim or recover them, as part of the estate of the decedent to which they rightfully belonged, lest the creditors should get them. He also charges, that Ewing died possessed of considerable real estate, of which he prays a discovery from the heirs, and alleges, that the administrator has filed his bill against the heirs, to subject it for other debts which he claimed; but that his, the said Handley's, was of superior dignity, and claims that it should be first satisfied. He made the administrator and heirs of Ewing, and the said Charles Wickliffe, defendants, and prays the satisfaction of his judgment, and for general relief. *3 Where a judgment has been rendered against an administrator, (on a plea that no assets had come to his hands,) to be levied out of the goods and chattels which may thereafter come to his hands, no execution can issue without a scire facias. In such case the creditor may file a bill in chancery, for the discovery and production of assets. Such proceeding is indispensable wherever fraudulent conveyances exist, which prevent the recovery of property by the administrator, who, as the representative of the fraudulent party, could not maintain a suit under the statute against frauds and perjuries. An application by defendants, to have the dismission of a suit in chancery against them set aside, and the cause reinstated, ought to be overruled, if the complainants agree to do, in another legal way what will produce effects equally advantageous to the applicants. The heirs answered, setting out a list of lands as given in by Ewing for taxes, but exhibit no title papers. They contend that Handley took possession of the land from their ancestor, and by his son, still holds, and will not surrender it to them, and that before he should have the aid of a court of equity to enforce his claim, he ought to be compelled to do equity, by surrendering the possession and accounting for rents. They aver that the verdict and judgment of Handley, were far too high, being the value of the land at the time of rendering the verdict, instead of the value paid when purchased, which was far less, and which they pray Handley may be compelled to disclose in response to their answer, which they make a cross bill; and they insist, that as they were not parties to the judgment against the administrator, they have now a right to contest it, and that the administrator was absent at the trial at law, and that Handley caused a fraudulent representation of value to be given to the jury. They allege that the two hundred and fifty acres sold to Handley by their ancestor, was located in the name of their ancestor's relative; and that their ancestor was entitled to half for location, by the custom of the country, and also by a written contract between their ancestor and his relative; and that having located other claims, in the division, the whole tract of one thousand acres, of which the two hundred and fifty acres sold to Handley was part, fell to their ancestor; but that the written contract was so lost or mislaid; that they could not find it. They aver that the relative of their ancestor in whose name the claim is, is dead, and that his heirs are unknown to them; and they make them defendants as unknown heirs, and pray that they may be compelled to convey to them, and that Handley may be compelled to accept a title from them, which they are willing to give with any security, or that he may be compelled to surrender the possession, if he will not take the title. A verdict and judgment against an administrator, is, as far as personal property or slaves may be affected, prima facie evidence against the heirs. *4 The heirs can not, by bill in equity, reduce the judgment in such case, on showing that it was for more than it ought to be, unless they make out such case as would justify its reduction, on a bill filed by the administrator alone. Charles Wickliffe answered the bill, and states (including what is set forth in his original and amended answers), that he held Hannah and her children under the will of Martin Hardin, his wife's father, recorded in Virginia in 1780, and written in 1779, only two sections of which need be recited, as having any bearing on this controversy, to-wit: If any interest in a chattel vests in a female before or during coverture, although a particular estate may exist in it undetermined, so that no possession is acquired by the husband during the life of the wife, the right will belong to the husband, in case he survives, and pass to his administrator. "Item, I give and bequath to my daughter, Mary Wickliffe, all that personal estate that I lent her soon after her marriage, negroes excepted; them I lend to her and her husband, Robert Wickliffe, during their natural lives. But if the said Robin Wickliffe should sell, mortgage, or convey away any of the said slaves, or any part of the said slaves, in order to defraud the right heirs of them, the said negroes, to-wit, Slate, James, Hester, Sarah and Nan, or their further increase, then I empower my executors to sue and recover such slave or slaves, so sold, mortgaged or conveyed away, for the use of the right heirs, and to take the remainder out of his hands. But if my daughter, Mary Wickliffe, should have a child or children, I give the said negroes to that child or children, to be equally divided amongst them; and for want of such issue, I give them to Charles and Lydia Wickliffe's children, to be equally divided amongst them. Also, I give my daughter, Mary Wickliffe, twenty pounds, lawful money of Virginia." He is entitled to her contingencies, as much as to any other property. "Item, I give and bequeath unto my daughter, Lydia Wickliffe, twenty pounds current money of Virginia, and no more. Item, I leave my daughter, Lydia Wickliffe, and her husband, Charles Wickliffe, four negroes, that they now have in their possession, to-wit, one negro woman named Frank, commonly called Fanny, and her two children, also, one negro girl named Anna, and her further increase, during their natural lives. I also give the said negroes to Charles and Lydia Wickliffe's children, to be divided discretionally amongst them, as the said Charles Wickliffe and Lydia, his wife, shall think fit, and at what time." Grand children may claim a devise, under the description of children; but it must be where there are no children. Devise of slaves to husband and wife for life, with a power of disposing of them among their children during their lives, or at their death, in such manner as they pleased: Held, that a continued loan for more than five years, to one of the children, rendered such slaves liable for the debts of such child, to the same extent they would have been, if the power had been executed formally by gift. *5 He, said Charles Wickliffe, states that his daughter Ewing, was married in 1786, and that he was absent in Virginia in 1787, and his wife, Lydia Wickliffe, who is still living, sent Hannah, who was the oldest child of Fanny, named in the will, to aid her daughter Ewing, which he disapproved of, on his return home, and in 1791, he reclaimed the possession of Hannah and sent others in her place, and then returned Hannah on loan; but never, at any time, permitted her to stay so long without reclaiming her, as to give Ewing a title by five years' possession, or to subject her to the debts of Ewing by the same length of time; and insists that he and his wife never did assign her or her increase to Ewing or his wife, under the will of Martin Hardin; and alleges, that he permitted her to stay at Ewing's after the death of his daughter, Ewing's wife, barely to take care of his grandchildren, for whom he then and yet designed these slaves. The administrator of Ewing demurred to the bill, after, by way of answer, denying fraud in general terms. The court overruled this demurrer and directed an answer. In his answer, he alleges that the estate of Ewing was indebted to him for money paid as the security of Ewing, and to recover that, he had filed his bill against the heirs. He admits that he was warned by the scire facias, of the pendency of the suit at law against him, as administrator of Ewing, and that the suit was at so great a distance from him, in Henderson county, that he wrote to a lawyer, and did not attend himself, and was unacquainted with the transaction; that Handley procured a verdict for too great a sum, by proving the then value of the land including the improvements. He calls upon Handley to state whether he did not prove the value including improvements, and what was the consideration given by him. He alleges that the contract was made by Ewing in good faith, he claiming the title as locator, but had not been able to obtain it, until the suit was commenced; and he requires the verdict to be reduced to the proper standard. As to assets having come to his hands, he states that there are none that have come to his hands, but what have been fully paid away; and that if the complainant will examine the records of the county court, he will find the estate indebted to him, and since that settlement no funds have come to his hands. He alleges that none of the slaves in contest ever came to his hands, and were in the possession of and claimed by others, and he did not consider it incumbent upon him to commence suits for them as administrator; that he had no vouchers or papers to show that they belonged to the estate, which would justify his bringing suits and incurring costs to establish at best a doubtful claim, and one in which he must, in all probability, be defeated. He likewise insists that Handley should be compelled to surrender the land before he obtained relief. To avoid the effect of continued possession under an unrecorded loan, the return of the slaves to the real owner must be in such a public and open manner, as will leave no doubt in whom the possession exists. *6 A decree merely declaring slaves which are not in the possession of the ?? ministrator, assets in his hands, is defective; it ought to subject such property to sale, in discharge of the debt, and direct the defendants in whose possession they are, to surrender them. Handley answered the interrogatories placed in the answer of the defendants as a cross-bill, by admitting that he paid for the land purchased by him of Ewing, in property, at that early day of cash value; that he gave for it about one dollar or one dollar and one-half per acre, which, he could not be certain; and admits he proved and recovered its value at the date of recovery, but without improvements, when the administrator appeared by counsel and made full defence; and rests on the verdict and judgment as a bar to further inquiry on this subject. He insists that Ewing sold him land to which he had no title, and knew it at the time, and denies that there was any title in Ewing as locator, or in his relative, for whom they allege the land was located, or that Ewing ever had any writing or claim for it; and, of course, was guilty of a fraud which justly subjected his estate to the full value at the time of assessment. He alleges that the heirs of that relative are known to the defendants in that court, and are their relations and residents of this country; and that the proceedings against them as unknown, are all a device to get at a pretended title, without permitting these relations to contest it. He avers that he is willing to take a good, indisputable title, and release his judgment, if it can be conveyed. He denies that he or his son, is bound to pay rents or account for profits, or to restore the land, except to the right owner; and that the heirs of Ewing have no right or title thereto. One executor has power to release or transfer a demand for money but where there was a contract with the ancestors for land or money in the alternative, the power of one or all the executors over such contracts, seems to depend on the impossibility of land being obtained. After the coming in of the answer of Charles Wickliffe, or rather his amended answer, which disclosed the will of Martin Hardin, the maternal great-grandfather of the present heirs of Ewing, the said Handley amended his bill, and caught at another family of negroes, stating that some time after the death of Martin Hardin, Robert Wickliffe, his son-in-law, named in the will, also departed this life, childless, and also made his will, devising the said negroes bequeathed to his wife, Mary Wickliffe, in the same manner that they were directed to pass by the will of Martin Hardin, except one; and that as the said negroes, by the said latter will, were directed to go to the children of Charles and Lydia Wickliffe, in case the said Robert and Mary had no children, and as Mrs. Ewing, formerly Miss Wickliffe, the mother of the present heirs of Ewing, was living and of the age of eight or ten years, and was one of the children of said Charles and Lydia, the interest in her on the failure of the issue of Robert and Mary Wickliffe, became vested and not contingent, before her marriage with Ewing, and as he survived her, the said vested interest belonged to him and was subject to his debts; and that Mary Wickliffe had afterwards married, and lately, since the death of Charles Ewing, had departed this life, whereby her life estate was terminated; and that about forty negroes then were divided between the children of Charles and Lydia Wickliffe, and that the share of the heirs of Ewing in this division, amounted to $1,060, which he alleges is subject to Ewing's debts; and that the administrator would not, in the same collusive manner, recover and receive those slaves, and subject them to the debts of Ewing. *7 Where one of two executors petitioned that a suit in which they were complainants, should be dismissed, and the other insisted that it should proceed, held that the court did right in refusing to dismiss it, as questions were involved in the application which ought not to be decided on motion or petition. Of rents, profits, improvements, etc. Vide, post, 2d opinion. The heirs of Ewing again answered, admitting that they had, on the death of Mrs. Robinson, late Mary Wickliffe, received sundry negroes; but they allege that they received and claim them under the will of Robert Wickliffe, and contend they are not, and never were subject to Ewing's debts. The court below, on a final hearing, decreed that the slaves which passed by the will of Martin Hardin to Robert and Mary Wickliffe, and which, on the death of both of them without issue, came to the heirs of Charles Ewing, and also negro Hannah and her nine children, which were in the possession of Ewing in his lifetime, should be assets in the hands of the said Charles Ewing's administrator, subject to the payment of the common law judgment, which the bill was brought to enforce, and that the defendants should pay the costs. From this decree the defendants below have appealed, and now assign various errors in the decree and proceedings of the court below. The first of these, which we shall notice, is that which complains of error in the court below, in overruling the demurrer of the administrator of Charles Ewing, to the bill of the complainant. It has been contended, that the bill shows no ground for an application to a court of equity, and that the remedy at law was so plain and easy, that an execution on the judgment might have been issued at once. We are aware of no law which would permit an execution to be issued on this judgment of Handley, without first issuing a scire facias, suggesting that since the commencement of the suit at law, assets had come to the hands of the administrator; and if, on the trial thereof, it should be judicially ascertained by a judgment on default or an issue found for the plaintiff, that such assets had since come to the hands of the administrator, judgment might be rendered that the plaintiff have execution of his original judgment. Such is the mode of effectuating all judgments rendered, to be levied de bonis quando acciderint. If the suggestions, or rather allegations, of the complainant below, be true in this instance, that he was unable to prove the amount, without a discovery, what benefit could he have derived from a scire facias at common law? A bill of discovery of assets, in favor of a creditor, belongs to a class of bill not unusual, and, indeed, well known to a court of equity, and this bill is entitled to that rank. Besides, if an administrator will not take into his hands, or recover by legal process, goods and chattels which he might, what redress has a creditor holding a judgment de bonis quando acciderint, in a court of common law? He must, on the trial of the issue whether goods have or have not come to the hands of the defendant, show that he hasreceived them and it is not sufficient to show that the administrator could, if he would, have gotten them. An application to the chancellor, then, may, in this case, be proper. It frequently may happen, that the testator or intestate has encumbered his estate with some fraudulent conveyance, which may be valid against himself, and also against his personal representative, who claims under him, but yet be void as to creditors. Here, the administrator could not recover; but ought the creditor to be compelled to stand, equally silent, when the deed is void as to him, and not be allowed to resort to a court of equity? In this case, the slave Hannah, and her offspring, might be liable for the debts of Ewing, although only loaned to him, and not regained for five years, by demand or due process of law, under the statute to prevent frauds and perjuries, 1 Dig. L. K. 618; and yet his administrator might not be able to recover the slaves from Charles Wickliffe, upon the five years' possession of his intestate; because that possession was amicable, and not adverse. Indeed, Charles Wickliffe might recover the slave from the administrator, if he held the possession, the statute of limitations notwithstanding, and yet the slave be subject to the debts of Ewing, because of the five years' possession, which gave him a delusive credit. Under such circumstances, a bill in chancery would lie, as the proper remedy to reach the fraud, and no proceedings at law against the administrator, could reach the slaves. For these reasons, we view this bill as making out good grounds for application to a court of equity, and conceive the demurrer of the administrator, as he was a proper party to all such controversies, as properly overruled. *8 The next question we shall notice, arises from the following circumstances: After the answer of Charles Wickliffe, and the amended bill of Handley, claiming to subject the slaves derived from Robert and Mary Wickliffe, and the answers thereto, the complainant dismissed his bill as to the heirs of Charles Ewing. They afterwards presented their petition, alleging that their interest would be materially affected by the dismissal, and relying on the proofs in the cause, prayed the court, by order or decree, to direct the complainant again to make them defendants, or to consent to reinstate the cause as it stood before the dismission, by a day fixed by the order; or, in case of failure, that the court should suspend the trial or dismiss the bill without prejudice. The counsel for the complainants agreed that they should be made parties, and that the cause should be heard upon the preparation as it stood; and upon this offer, the court overruled the application, and the heirs of Ewing excepted. According to the original shape of the cause, it may be doubted whether the heirs were properly made parties to the contest for subjecting their lands. If they held land by descent, the bond in this case expressly bound them; and although the bond is dated before lands were subject to sale by fieri facias, yet they could be subject to an elegit, and suit at law might have been brought against them on the bond, without joining the personal representative. Hence, because the remedy at law was complete, the right to proceed against them in equity may be questionable, especially as the bill professes no ignorance of their title. But after the claim set up against them for the slaves derived from Robert Wickliffe, as they held the possession of them, they were proper defendants, and ought to have been continued. But still we do not perceive any advantage that they could have had, by the court making the order required, over the attitude in which they were placed by the consent of the oposite party. So far as they required Handley to surrender the land, their cross bill was adequate for their redress, which, according to the decision of this court, in the case of  Wilson's heirs v. Bodley, 2 Litt. Rep. 55, was not dismissed without their election, on the dismissal of the original bill brought by their adversary. The consent, then, to make them parties, which they embraced, must be construed as giving them additional advantages, and to place them in such an attitude as to enable them to protect their interest in every respect. We, therefore, discover no error in refusing the order or decree required by their petition, after what was granted to them by consent. The next error assigned, contends that the court erred in not reducing this judgment to the purchase money and interest given for the land sold, instead of its present amount. As to the administrator, he has made out no sufficient grounds for such a reduction. He did not attend the trial at law, barely because it was inconvenient on account of the distance. He professes ignorance about the controversy; but this arose from his never having looked into the papers of the suit at law, to discover what was demanded. Of course, the verdict as to him ought to be conclusive. We are unwilling to admit, that this verdict and judgment are entitled to no weight against the heirs, so far as they have interest in the slaves in contest. It is not necessary that we should now enquire into the precise weight which a verdict and judgment against administrators ought to have against heirs. They are certainly entitled to some, as to the personal estate, and that can not be less than prima facie, and what is done in the suit against the administrator ought to be presumed to be rightly done, and as they have shown no fraud in obtaining the judgment, and no excuse for the default of the administrator, they ought not to be excused from its effects, at least on chattels and slaves. *9 The next question we shall notice, is, the liability of the numerous slaves devised by the will of Martin Hardin, to Robert and Mary Wickliffe, during their lives, and then on failure of issue, to the children of Charles and Lydia Wickliffe, of whom the wife of Ewing was one. It is well settled, as contended in the argument, that if any interest in a chattel vest in a female before or during coverture, although a particular estate may exist undetermined, so that no possession is acquired by the husband during the life of the wife, the right will belong to the husband in case he survives, and pass to his administrator; and it is said further, that he is entitled, by a series of decisions, even to her contingencies, as much as to any other species of her property; that the right of administration follows the right of the estate, and ought, in case of the husband's death, after the wife, to be granted to the next of kin of the husband; and that if administration is granted to a third person, he is a trustee to the representative of the husband. Jacob's Law. Dic., title Baron and Feme; Pinkard's executor v. Smith, Fall Term, 1821; Banks v. Marksberry, present term. If, then, these negroes vested in the wife of Ewing on the death of Robert Wickliffe, or she comes within the description, as the bill seems to suppose, there could be no difficulty in this case. But this is not the fact. It was not to the child or children of Robert and Mary Wickliffe, that these slaves were directed to pass by the will of Hardin, after their life estate was determined. If it was, it might well be contended, that the responsibility of issue became extinct at his death. But it was to the child or children of Mary Wickliffe that the slaves were to pass; so that any child which she might have by any other husband, would have been entitled. Of course, the death of Robert Wickliffe did not secure the children of Charles and Lydia, or produce the contingency by which the estate would vest in them, and the event was postponed until the death of Mary, which did not happen until after the death of both Ewing and his wife. The inquiry then is, was the legacy to the children of Charles and Lydia Wickliffe, which did not depend upon a condition, but on an event wholly uncertain, to-wit, the existence of the offspring of Mary Wickliffe, of such character that it would pass to the next of kin to Mrs. Ewing? If it would, the representative of her surviving husband, would take it; if it would not, then there is no pretext for subjecting it to the debts of Ewing. The solution of this question, involves the further construction of the will of Martin Hardin. Littell's S. C., 331;  3 Litt. Rep. 275. The testator could not mean the children of Charles and Lydia Wickliffe, which would be alive at his death; for then the life estate of Robert and Mary Wickliffe, might not be determined. He must have intended the children which should exist at the death of Mary Wickliffe, as the persons who should take. Had he spoken of the children which were alive at the making of the will, or those alive at his death, then Mrs. Ewing would have been identified as one which would take on the happening of the contingency, as if she had been named, and it might have been contended, that on the happening of the contingency, her representative would take. But as the intention was to designate the children living at the death of Mary Wickliffe, Mrs. Ewing did not live until that event, and, therefore, she is not described in the will, and the legacy to her was lapsed, or to speak with more propriety, went to such as did exist at the death of Mary, exclusively, and no representative which she might have, could answer the description of children then living. It is, says Roper on Wills, (p. 12), settled, that any person who can entitle himself under the description, at the time of distributing the fund, viz., as well as those children living at the period of distribution, though not born until after the testator's decease, as those born before and living at the happening of the event, will be permitted to take. It may be said, that the children of Mrs. Ewing, alive at the death of Mary Wickliffe, could fill the description of children of Charles and Lydia Wickliffe, although they were grand-children. It is true, grand-children are frequently included within the term, children; but this is where there are no children. Cunn. Law. Dic., title Children. Besides, this would not help the complainant; for those grand-children would take as legatees, and not as representatives of their mother, in which case, the property could not be subjected to the debts of the father. There is, therefore, error in so much of the decree of the court below, as subjects these slaves. *10 We have not thought it proper to enquire into the tenure of these slaves, under the will of Robert Wickliffe, by which both bill and answer alleges they passed; because, first, we do not perceive under the proof, what power Robert Wickliffe had to devise these slaves, if he held them under the will of Hardin; secondly, it is alleged that the will of Robert Wickliffe made the same disposition as that of Hardin, and, therefore, can have no effect; and lastly, this will is not filed in the cause, and we do not think it proper to disturb the possession of an estate, by following the terms of an instrument which we have not before us. Having disposed of the slaves which came through Robert and Mary Wickliffe, we pass on to the family of Hannah, the child of Frank or Fanny. Here it has been strenuously urged, that, as by the will of Martin Hardin, this slave, mother of all the rest, was devised to Charles and Lydia Wickliffe for life, with power of disposing of her to their children when they pleased, and that as the power never was exercised during the life of Mrs. Ewing, and that the evidence shews that the slave was lent and not given, therefore, she and her family could not be subject to Ewing's debts. We do not deem it necessary to scan the evidence very minutely, to determine whether this slave, Hannah, was given or lent. There is testimony conducing to prove both sides of this question. A letter written by Ewing in 1791, to Charles Wickliffe, acknowledges it to be a loan only, and the rest of the testimony on that side, arises from the declarations of Charles and Lydia Wickliffe, and of Ewing and wife. Waiving the doubt whether any of this testimony is competent. we shall consider it as a loan only, and see whether the effects of it will not be the same in this case as a gift. For if she remained with Charles Ewing five years "without demand made and pursued by due process of law," then according to the letter of the act to prevent frauds and perjuries, she and her family are subject to Ewing's debts. We do not attach any importance to the inquiry, whether the power given by the will of Martin Hardin, of disposing of their children, was or was not exercised in due form, by Charles and Lydia Wickliffe, during the life of Mrs. Ewing, and that for the following reasons: The same will which gave them a life estate, also gave them a right of power to grant to their children; consequently they had the power of lending to them, and if they did so, and the possession under that loan continued undisturbed for five years, the slaves, under the direction of the act, would become subject to the debts of Ewing. Besides, we are inclined to believe that the slave Frank, the mother of Hannah, and Hannah herself, were not subject to the bequest of the will of Martin Hardin, although such bequest made. For it is proved that on the marriage of Charles and Lydia Wickliffe, in 1767 (thirteen years before the death of Martin Hardin), Frank was put into their possession, and remained there undisturbed until this time; and Charles Wickliffe, in his original answer, treats these slaves as held in his own right, and the point, that they were affected by the will of Hardin, is an afterthought, which came out in the amended answer, as a position supposed to be more favorable to his title as opposed to the creditors of Ewing. Of course, the question of a loan for five years, without writing recorded as the act directs, is the remaining inquiry. Because the possession of a slave so long, gave to the holder a delusive credit, the statute intended to avert the evil. The proof is clear, that the general possession of the slave, Hannah, as well as her children, as they came into existence, was with Charles Ewing from the first of the year 1787, until about 1806 or 1807, or at all events until after the death of Mrs. Ewing in 1804. And the proof is equally clear, that they were by many, perhaps a majority of those who knew them, supposed to be the property of Ewing, until after Mrs. Ewing's death. This establishes conclusively the existence of the very evil which the act intended to remedy, and casts upon the opposite side, the necessity of proving clearly, that the possession and ownership were regained once within cach five years, to ward off the effect of the statute. On this point the proof is not so clear of difficulty. It is shewn clearly, that in 1791, about four years after Ewing first got the possession of Hannah, an execution issued against the estate of Ewing, who was then absent from the country, and to avoid its effects upon Hannah, she was taken home to the house of Charles Wickliffe, and others sent at different times in her place; but in about the course of one year afterwards, when Ewing had returned and settled the debt, Hannah was restored to him. There is also proof that on one other occasion, one of the children of Hannah was taken from the possession of a person to whom Ewing had loaned the use of the child then small. There is likewise proof that Hannah was seen afterwards at the house of Charles Wickliffe, but whether in such manner as to give to Charles Wickliffe the exclusive possession and ownership, or only on those occasions of casual intercourse and visit, which must result from the relation existing between the two families, is not shewn. To relieve the slaves from the effect of the statute, Hannah and her family ought have been removed in such an open and public manner as could leave no doubt in whom the possession existed. We, therefore, conceive that Hannah and her family are liable to the debt of Handley, and that the court below did not err in so deciding this controversy. *11 Several objection and criticisms have been made to the decree, even admitting these slaves are liable, some of which are just. That court has barely decreed that they shall be assets in the hands of the administrator, without placing them in his hands, when it is doubtful whether he could recover them; for as before suggested, a creditor might subject them to his demand, when the administrator could not recover them. Here was no decree which could be enforced against the slaves. The party holding the judgment, held it in the same situation in which it was, and if scire facias should issue thereon, suggesting assets, it is very doubtful whether the administrator could or could not yet plead the want of assets at law. The decree ought, therefore, to have subjected Hannah and her children at once to sale, in satisfaction of the judgment at law, in the hands of the executors of Charles Wickliffe, as they on his death pending this suit, have become parties, and if their names or number are uncertain, an account ought to be taken to remove this uncertainty, and the executors be decreed to surrender them, to be sold under the decretal orders of the court, or enough of them to discharge the debt and all costs. We would further suggest, that the administrator of Ewing has neither admitted nor denied whether he has received personal assets since the judgment, but refers to his accounts settled with the county court. The account directed ought, therefore, to embrace this matter, and ascertain what has come to his hands, if any thing, that it may be appropriated first in satisfaction of the judgment. One or two more questions made and debated in argument, deserve our consideration. Pending this suit in 1814, Handley entered into an article of agreement with Jeroboam Beauchamp, in which he assigned and transferred to Beauchcamp, the judgment which he had on Ewing's administrator now in contest, and in consideration thereof, Beauchcamp agreed that he would make to Handley, within a reasonable time, a good, clear and indefeasible title to the same 250 acres described in Ewing's bond. But if Beauchcamp should be unable ultimately to convey the land, then he was to pay Handley, whatever sum or sums of money he, Beauchamp might obtain by said judgment against Ewing's estate, by this suit in chancery, or by setting off the judgment against any demands the estate might have against Beauchamp. Beauchamp had before this suit was tried, succeeded in setting off upwards of three hundred dollars against a claim which the estate of Ewing held against him. After the date of this contract, Handley died pending this suit, and it was revived before trial, in the names of his two executors. After this suit was argued and before the court for advisement, the administrator and heirs of Ewing filed their petition, praying the court to set aside the order of hearing and dismiss the suit, alleging that one of the executors of Handley had transferred and assigned to them the whole judgment against the estate of their intestate, and also the benefit of the contract with Jeroboam Beauchamp, and they exhibited a written transfer to that effect. To oppose this, Beauchamp exhibited his petition, alleging that he had been at considerable costs and expense in pursuing this suit, which was now conducted for his benefit, and also in endeavoring to obtain the legal title for Hendley, to the said two hundred and fifty acres of land, which he yet had the prospect of obtaining; and also alleging that one of Handley's executors had disagreed to the transfer, and showed the writing of that executor, requiring the suit to go on for Beauchamp's benefit, and declaring that he never did agree to the transfer made by his co-executor. *12 The court below refused to dismiss the suit, and went on to render a decree. It is now contended, that one executor had a right to transfer the demand, and therefore the court ought to have dismissed the suit; that as Beauchamp had not yet got the title to convey to Handley's representatives, by his own showing, the money belonged to the estate of Handley, and therefore one of his executors had a right to transfer it. It is true, that one executor, where there are more than one, has ample powers by law, to transfer the goods of his testator or release a debt; but it does not thence follow, that either one or both executors could make such transfer in this instance, or that the suit ought to have been dismissed on the prayer of the defendants below, if they had. The contract with Beauchamp is a covenant for land, or money, in the alternative. Whether his executors have a right to transfer it, or not depends, according to the decision of this court, in the case of  Hatcher v. Galloway, 2 Bibb, 180, on the question whether that part which stipulates land, was broken by Beauchamp in the lifetime of Handley, which does not appear. But if it was, Handley may have done acts to waive the breach, and the whole right of recovery thereon is to be ascertained by the trial of a proper issue at law or in equity, as in other contracts. If the court below had decided that the reasonable time given to Beauchamp had elapsed, and of course that Beauchamp was barely to collect the money and hand it over to Handley's executors, it would have been forestalling the rights of the parties by motion, or at least by petition, and in a summary way concluding matters which ought to be settled on proper pleadings made up in the usual course. It would have been deciding at once, without trial, that Beauchamp had forfeited his contract, or that his contract was vitious, and he had no right to the money. The court, therefore, did right in overruling this application, leaving the rights of the parties not prejudiced, to be asserted in the usual way. Finally, the question presents itself, whether the court ought to have given the heirs of Ewing any relief on their cross bill, or whether, as both they and the administrator insisted upon Handley's being compelled to restore possession before he received satisfaction of his judgment, their prayer ought to have been granted. In cases of rescission of contract, the parties ought to be placed in statu quo, as nearly as can conveniently be done. Here is not a rescission asked, from the decree of the chancellor; but there has been a performance on the part of Handley, and a recovery at law for a breach. In such cases, generally, on a recovery, there ought to be a restoration of the thing sold, subject to the lien of the purchaser for his purchase money. But as it does not appear that Ewing had any title to the thing he sold, ought this case to form an exception? It is not true, that Ewing, in this case, performed nothing. Handley evidently took possession under him, and Ewing had stipulated to keep him there, and he has not been disturbed. Possession of land may itself become a title, and often can not be divested; and although it is denominated the least estate, it is one of great importance and of course ought to be restored. Such has been the requisitions of this court, in the case of Lyon v. Humble 3 Marsh. 468, in which case the vender had no title of record. It is true, that as Handley took possession under Ewing, he might be subject to eviction in an action at law, as was decided by this court in the case of Connelly's heirs v. Chiles, 2 Marsh. 242; but still, although the heirs of Ewing may have remedy at law, it does not follow, that they can not insist upon the same matter in equity, especially as the chancellor is asked for relief by the other side, and can finish the whole matter. Alexander Handley has the possession. He is made a party by one of the amended answers, and relief prayed against him as to the possession. Besides, he is one of the executors of his father, and has become a party by a bill of revivor; he is, therefore, properly before the court, and we conceive it reasonable that he ought to be compelled to restore the possession, upon the payment of the purchase money. But, before this is done, an account ought to be taken of improvements, and rents and profits. Improvements, lasting and valuable, made before the judgment at law, ought to be assessed at their proper value, as they may be deteriorated by use or lapse of time; rents ought to be calculated on the land as it was when sold, and not including rents on the labor and ameliorations of Handley, and also all waste committed during occupancy, and the balance decreed to the party in whose favor it may fall; and a decree ought to be rendered, that Handley restore the possession, subject to his lien for the purchase money, or any balance of improvements which may be in his favor; and on the amount of the judgment at law, costs and improvements being paid, the court may, by decretal order, restore the possession to Ewing's heirs. *13 The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that a decree may be there entered in conformity with this opinion. The Hon. Charles A. Wickliffe presented the following petition for a rehearing: The court, in deciding upon two questions involved in the record, 1st, the claim on the part of the defendants below, to reduce the amount of the common law judgment; 2d, the claim of the defendants to be paid for rents and profits, and to be restored to the possession of the premises, has not furnished the defendants that relief to which, according to the principles of equity, it is respectfully believed by the undersigned, they were entitled. The main question involved having been so fully discussed by the court, it is deemed unnecessary to call their attention again to that part of the decree which determines the slaves liable to the payment of the debts of the decedent, Ewing. Nor can it be important to trouble the court with a minute statement of the facts of the case. These will be found in the briefs filed. The defendants, in the nature of a cross bill, call upon the chancellor to reduce the claim of Handley to what, according to the principles of law and equity, he is entitled, viz. the purchase money and interest thereon. It will be first necessary to enquire, whether, in this case, under all the circumstances, the complainant, Handley, at law or in equity, should recover more than what he paid, and interest on the same. When a failure to convey is the result of a fraudulent intention, the criterion of damages is the value of the land at the time of assessment. But when the contract was fairly and honestly entered into, and a failure to comply arises from causes not the result of fraudulent intention, the consideration money and interest, is all the party at law can, and as much as in equity he should recover. In this cause, Ewing sold the land under an equitable interest, which he held in the fee, and which equity has been perfected by his heirs. He puts the defendant into the possession of the land; that possession has not been disturbed for thirty years. Surely there can be no fraud imputed to Ewing; none is proved. I assume it as a principle, not controverted or denied by the opinion which the court has pronounced, but fairly to be inferred therefrom, that, at law, if a fair and full defense has been made by the representative of Ewing, all that Handley could have recovered, was his purchase money, with interest. The court think, however, that the reason assigned by the defendants, is not sufficient to justify a chancellor to disturb the finding at law; and in this opinion, the court would be supported by authorities, if there were not other reasons assigned why?? a defense at law was not made, than the one noticed by the court. The administrator, it is true, says in his answer, that he lived at a great distance from the place of trial and could not attend; he knew nothing of the transaction. The court say it was his duty to have attended the trial, and there make his defense. There is one statement in the amended answer of the defendant, the administrator, which must have escaped the attention of the court. It is to be found on the 54th page of the record, and is in these words: "This defendant knew nothing of the contract between Handley and Ewing, and he was unable at law, to prove the purchase price given by Handley for the land, (said to be 250 acres), and was and is now, only able to do it from the oath of the complainant." The complainant is called upon in the nature of a cross bill, to answer, &c. *14 Where judgment at law has been rendered for more than is justly due, and where the finding is had from the want of proof competent in law to resist that finding, and that proof rests alone in the knowledge of the plaintiff at law, the chancellor will give relief. Why should the defendant attend the trial to make defense, when the weapons with which alone he could successfully defend, rested exclusively within the knowledge of Handley, the plaintiff at law, and that knowledge could only be obtained by the all-powerful arm of the chancellor? To require a defendant, for form's sake, to attend a trial, and refuse him relief because he did not attend, and if he had attended, he could not have resisted the recovery, is requiring him to do an idle and foolish act. His failure to attend the trial, does not form the grounds for relief in this court; but it is his inability to prove the defense, but by the oath of the defendant. Handley has obtained a judgment at law, which is for more than he is in justice and equity entitled; he calls upon the chancellor to aid him in the collection of that judgment, the common law not furnishing him ample means; he asks a discovery, upon oath, of the defendant; and this is one of the grounds upon which the chancellor, in this cause, has rightfully entertained jurisdiction. When the defendant is again assailed with the claim of the complainant, and that by an appeal to the conscience of the chancellor, can he not resist that recovery, by appealing to the chancellor to compel the complainant to disclose upon oath what is justly due? Is it too late to file a bill of discovery in this cause by the defendant? The difference between the amount recovered and the purchase money and interest, forms an item large enough to deserve the attention and interposition of the chancellor. Upon the second point deemed objectionable in the decree pronounced, your petitioner asks the serious consideration of this court once more. He is justified in so doing, because of the fact, that in the argument of the cause, he is informed little if any thing was said upon the subject, as to the extent of the appellants' claim for rents. Their right to be paid, is an equitable one, and must result upon Handley's being refunded his purchase money, and paid for his labor upon the premises. The right is expressly recognized by the court in the opinion pronounced; but is restricted by the mode prescribed by the court in such way, to possess only the name without the substantial qualities of an equitable right. The court decide the appellants are entitled to be restored to the possession of the land; but say, "before this is done, an account ought to be taken of the improvements, and rents and profits. Improvements, lasting and valuable, made before the judgment at law, ought to be assessed at their present value, as they may be deteriorated by use or lapse of time. Rents ought to be calculated on the land as it was when sold, and not including rents on the labor and ameliorations of Handley; and also, all waste committed during occupancy; and the balance decreed to the party in whose favor it may fall, and a decree ought to be rendered that Handley restore the possession, subject to his lien for the purchase money, or any balance for improvements, which may be in his favor," &c. *15 As this cause does not come within any of the provisions of either of the occupying claimant laws of this state, and is not so considered by the court in their opinion, we are relieved from the necessity of contesting the right of the complainant to be paid for his improvements under those laws, or their now validity. The rights of the parties are treated in this cause, and correctly considered by the court, as purely equitable, unaided by those laws, or unaffected by their destruction. Let us enquire what that principle of equity is, which has governed this court in former cases, and then see if there is any fact or circumstance in this cause, which does vary or change that principle. Talbot's Cases in Equity, 236, the lord chancellor uses these words: "If, upon the prospect of having the articles performed, the plaintiff has improved the estate, it is reasonable he should have an allowance for lasting improvements, provided he is content to deliver up the articles, and to account for the profits." Same principle recognized in 3d Eq. Ca. Ab. 681; 1 Vernon 487. The right to be paid for improvements, subject to a charge for rents and profits of the land, in the state in which it is when used and occupied by the tenant, is recognized by this court also, inthe case of Whitledge v. Wait's heirs, Pr. Dec., 1804, page 397. We find the principle settled by this court in the case of Saunders v. M'  Cracken, 4 Bibb 511. In that case, Saunders filed his bill in equity to compel M'Cracken to pay him for improvements by him made, under a parol contract for the land, entered into with Saunders, if a conveyance of the land could not be had. This court refuse a conveyance, and in pronouncing the decree, use this language: "M'Cracken, before he is allowed to gain the possession, ought to be compelled to compensate for the improvements remaining upon the premises. In estimating the amount, it will, however, be proper to deduct from the value of the improvements, a reasonable sum for the use of the mill;" not for the use of the ground in the state in which the occupant found it when he entered; but for the use of the mill, for which M'Cracken was decreed to pay rent, not to be calculated on the land as it was when sold (by parol); but a reasonable sum for the use of the mill. Thompson v. Mason, 4 Bibb, 199, is a case where the improvements were made upon the land by the occupants; yet they were decreed to pay rents from the time of their taking possession, not restricted to "a calculation on the land as it was when sold, and not including rents on the labor and ameliorations' of the occupant. The case of Lewis' heirs v. Singleton's heirs, 2 Marsh. 215, again recognizes the principle contended for, unfettered by the restriction imposed in the present case. The same principle is settled in 2d volume of Munford's Reports 132, 157. The court decree the complainant to pay for all waste; but is silent as to the payment for the reduction of soil by cultivation, which would not properly be taken in the estimate under the head of waste. The complainant has occupied the land for thirty years, undisturbed, under the contract with Ewing; the soil worn out by unskilful cultivation; the court decree the complainants to pay for the improvements; in substance and fact refuse them rents, deny them a compensation for the reduction of soil. This can not be equity or justice, in this or any other country. *16 If the equitable principle is correctly stated, and established by the authorities cited, differing in the period at which the charge for rents shall commence, according to the circumstances of each particular case, let us enquire whether there are any circumstances in this cause which will vary or change the rule heretofore settled by this and other courts. Ewing's heirs are entitled to the land, and to them Handley is decreed to restore it. M'Cracken in the case in 4th Bibb, was entitled to the land, and had a judgment for restitution; Handley was put into the possession and made the improvements, and he is decreed payment for them. Saunders was put into the possession, made the improvements, and payment therefor decreed. Here the analogy ceases. Saunders was decreed to pay a reasonable sum for the use of the mill he built; Handley is decreed to pay rents and profits, "calculated on the land as it was when sold, and not including rents on the labor and ameliorations of Handley;" or, in other words, no rents. The same analogy in circumstances and rights may be found in this and the other cases cited, until we come to the assessment of rents. Why should not the appellants be paid for the rents and profits of the premises, in the state in which they had been occupied by Handley? Is there any principle of equity which forbids it? Is it because he, and not Ewing, has made the improvements? If so, then I answer, that Ewing is compelled to pay him for those improvements. When a man performs labor, for which I am bound to pay him. it is as though that labor had been performed by myself. The most which the chancellor could do, or ever has done, would be to allow the improver interest, after a reasonable time, upon the value of the improvements, deducting, annually, the amount of rents due, from the amount of improvements and interest thereon. If the court be correct in the principle which governs courts of chancery, in this particular case, the state of Kentucky has sustained no loss by the destruction of the occupying claimant laws by the federal court. Indeed, it was idle in the legislature to pass those laws; for, by them, instead of bettering the condition of the occupants, their liabilities were greatly enchanced. Both the acts of 1797 and 1812 subjected the occupants to rents, at particular periods; rents, not calculated upon the land as it was when the successful claimant was ousted by the occupant, but rents for the premises as they were when used and occupied, for the time rent is given. In this case, the court give no such rent. They give to the appellants, it is true, the rents and profits of their land; but how are they to be estimated? What is to be the matter of fact inquiry with the commissioner? Shall the circuit court be directed gravely to enquire into the value of the rents and profits of this 250 acres of land, considering it to have remained in the state it was in 1789, when Ewing sold it to Handley, a wild and perfect wilderness? Upon what data shall the court below direct the commissioner to make his inquiry? The commissioner is told to report the rents and profits of the land, "as it was when sold." It was not cleared when sold, or taken possession of by Handley; of course, the commissioner must report that the rents and profits of this land, for 30 years, are of no value, although the complainant has, during that period used and occupied the same under Ewing's title, and, in law, as his tenant at will. Why not at once say to the court below, that for the land in contest, as it was not cleared at the time Handley took possession, the appellants are not entitled to rents and profits? Do not amuse the appellants with the hope that they are to be paid for the rents and profits of their land. Speak to them in plain and strong language; inform them that the courts of chancery heretofore have not correctly understood the doctrine which they have professed governs them; tell them that the court of appeals of Kentucky, in 1804, in every case since, and particularly in the case of M'Cracken v. Saunders, 4 Bibb, have been mistaken, and it is now time that the doctrine so long practiced, should be abandoned, and the true equitable principle, as now settled by this court, hereafter be recognized as the law of the land. The decisions heretofore pronounced, and which have been hastily cited, are wrong, if the one in this case be correct. *17 It is with great reluctance, that the undersigned has been compelled to trouble the court with this petition. He well knows the labors which this court have to encounter, and that applications to re-consider opinions deliberately pronounced upon full argument, tend to increase those labors, already insupportable. A sense of duty to those whose interest he represents in this cause, and who are united to him by more than the ordinary obligations of lawyer and client, and the great importance of the principle which is involved in the very few lines which close the opinion, will furnish to this court an apology for the trouble which this hasty and unconnected petition may give; and if it shall have the effect of opening the question once more for argument and discussion, it will not, even upon a second argument, prevent the court from then settling the doctrine as now decided, if they shall still believe it right. For the reasons above, your petitioner moves for, and hopes this court will direct a rehearing of the cause. Respectfully, C. A. WICKLIFFE, for App'ts. Whereupon the opinion was suspended until the spring term, 1824, when the court pronounced the following opinion: In responding to the petition filed for a rehearing by the heirs of Ewing, we have not thought it necessary to notice all the points made and relied on; but we conceive it proper to attend to the questions of improvements and ameliorations on the one side, and rents and profits on the other, to which the attention of the court has been earnestly, but respectfully recalled. On these subjects, after the most mature deliberation, we conceive that the former opinion must be corrected. Where the possesssion of the occupant is bona fide, a charge for substantial amelioration exceeding the rent, may be allowed. It is insisted, that the value of improvements ought not to be allowed beyond the amount of rents charged, and that this is the rule of equity and common law, applicable to such cases. We are aware that the supreme ourt of the United States, in the late case of  Green v. biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, has said that improvements ought not to be allowed beyond the rents. If this is intended to apply to every case where an account of rents, profits and improvements is to be taken, with due deference to such high authority, we must say, that after a diligent examination, we have been able to find no case in other books, which negatives the right to extend the charge for improvements beyond the rents and profits, except cases where the possession of the occupant was taken and held mala fide. Besides, the case then under consideration before that court, was one arising under the conflicting claims to land in this country, where the possession of the occupant was without the consent of the real owner. We, therefore, dismiss from this case, the influence of what is there decided, leaving its consideration to a similar case when it may occur; for we are well satisfied, that as between venders and vendees, the doctrine, if correct, can not apply, and in all cases of that kind, where the English chancery have directed an account, the excess of the value of improvements beyond the rents and profits, has not been disallowed, except the wrong was wholly on the side of the vendee. Such a rule for the account has been acted on by this court at the present term, in the case of Lancaster v. Poper, &c. In this case, however, the wrong, if any, was on the part of the ancestor of the petitioners. Handley purchased the land and paid for it, and because his vender had no title, he was driven to his action at the law for remuneration. We, therefore, still conceive, that if there is an excess of improvements in his favor, it must be allowed, and that the former opinion is also correct in disallowing any improvements made after he obtained his judgment at law for the price of the land. *18 The case of Green and biddle, in the supreme court of the United States, where the possession was taken originally, contrary to the consent of the real owner of the land, and continued throughout without his consent, can not be authority in all (if any) cases between vender and vendee. We also still continue to think, that we have rightly fixed the period at which the charge of rents must commence. It may be admitted that rents and profits during occupancy, have been allowed as a general rule in the English chancery, and yet the concession will not conclude this case; for Maddock, in his first volume, page 73, says: Where land has been purchased and paid for, and the vendee put in possession, but the vender can not make title, and will not repay the purchase money without suit, if, after disaffirming the contract, by obtaining a judgment for the price paid, the ameliorations made by the vendee exceed the value of the Rents and profits, he ought to be paid the excess. "Under special circumstances, the court will only decree an account of rents and profits, from the time of bringing the bill; as where the defendant had no notice of the plaintiff's title, nor had the deeds and writings in his custody, in which the plaintiff's title appeared, or where the title of the plaintiff appeared by deeds in a stranger's custody. So, where there hath been any default or laches in the plaintiff in nor asserting his title, and he has laid by, the court has often thought fit to restrain it to the filing of the bill." It is true, these exceptions are laid down by the author, as applicable to that class of cases usually called ejectment bills, where an adverse legal title is asserted in equity, because there is some impediment placed in the road of a legal title-holder, obstructing his recovery at law. But surely if such exceptions are made in these cases, the reason is equally forcible to except from the influence of the general rule, the case of the vandee who has reposed implicit confidence in the vender, and has supposed that he was really acquiring an estate by the purchase, and it turns out that he is deceived, and can not have his contract, because his vender has no title. Such cases have heretofore been made an exception in this court, especially when the fault lay in the vender, which prohibited the performance of the contract. See Langley v. fox's devisees, 3 Marsh. 388, and subsequent cases. On the contrary, when the fault lies with the vendee, or he knew at the time of his purchase, of the defect or want of title, the general rule has been applied, as in the case of  Thompson v. Mason and wife, 4 Bibb 199. We, therefore, still approve the direction of the former opinion, which directs the rents to commence at the time when Handley recovered his judgment at law on the contract, at which time he abandoned further hopes of title by recovering damages. With respect to the criterion to be fixed, by which both improvements and rents are to be charged by the decree, to-wit, improvements at their present deteriorated value, and rents and profits as the land was when Handley first got possession, it is a subject of acknowledged difficulty, and one on which was have not been able to derive any aid from adjudged cases; for while the right to payment for improvements on one side, and of rents and profits on the other, is acknwoledged in all the cases, the criterion by which they are to be charged, does not appear to have been the subject of express adjudication, except where it has been touched by this court, in the case of Dupuy v. Griffith, 3 Marshall, 177, and the subsequent case of Laudeman v. M'Kinson. After reconsidering these points, we feel ourselves constrained to change the directions of this decree, and to fix on some rule which will be more generally applicable, than that intimated in the case justcited, of Dupuy v. Griffith, and to leave that case to be justified by the particular circumstances, and not as forming a precedent for every case; and so far as it may differ from the general rule now laid down and attempt to establish general principles, we do not hesitate to depart from it. *19 But the vendee ought not to be allowed anything for improvements made after having obtained judgment for the price of the land, and rents ought to commence at that time. As a general rule of equity, the occupant of land is to be considered as employed by the realowner in clearing, fencing and rendering it fit for cultivation; and against the real owner he has a moral claim for this, not as against a landlord, but as against an employer. After the land has been pur into a state for cultivation. The accounts between the owner and occupant are to be adjusted on the principles which govern the relation between landlord ad tenant. The cases of Dupuy v. griffith, 3 marsh. 177, Richardson v. M'Kinson, Littell's S. C. 320, and this case, are exceptions to the general rule. Although we, as said before, have been able to derive but little aid from authority, yet by an attention to the original principle, on which the claims for improvements, rents and profits are based, we are furnished with a guide which will conduct us to a correct result. The right then to rents and profits in the successful claimant, must be based upon the right of property in the soil, adjudged to be in him, by the sentence of his recovery. In consequence of this, he is treated as the landlord, and the tenant or unsuccessful claimant, as a laborer or tenant, who had bestowed his capital and labor in ameliorating the land of the successful claimant, and by this process, rendered it fit to produce the profits of the earth; and the excess of those productions, beyond what sustains the tenant in his annual labor, is nothing else than the rents and profits. These are fixed at different prices, in different places, where land is leased, like every other article, according to the demand. Then, as a compensation for his annual labor in cultivating, the occupant draws his subsistence, and the excess beyond what is necessary for this purpose, accrues to the true owner by the right of accession, in the language of the civil law. But the labor of the occupant in subduing the forest, fitting the land for cultivation, plaing necessary buildings thereon, is not thus paid; for these he has a moral claim upon his adversary who now, by the sentence of the court, stands, in some measure, in the attitude of an employer. If the successful claimant is to receive rents, and not pay for this labor, he will be enriched to that amount, and have his rents from the labor of the tenant also, by which the occupant will sustain a clear loss to this amount. The labor and service, therefore, necessary and useful in fitting the land for occupancy and use, must be paid for by the true owner, at its real original cost, without regard to deteriorations by use and lapse of time. We do not here include the cost of labor expended in making improvements that are ornamental and faciful only, or to those entirely temporary in their nature. If the occupant expends either his labor or money on such, he mus lost it. *20 Justice requires that many exceptions should be made. According to this same standard, if the occupant is allowed pay for his labor and capital expended, at cost, it necessarily follows, that he ought to be charged with rents on the subject as improved by his own labor; and thus he renders labor for which he is paid; he receives his subsistence from his annual labor in his crop, and he accounts for the excess to the true woner. But while we admit these as the general principles, which ought to be applied, we deny their inflexibility in particular, and indeed in many cases, as before shewn. There is a necessity that they should often vary, lest injustice he done, and we conceive they must measurably yield in this case. For instance, the improvements must be valued at the time when the judgment at law was rendered, and of course, instead of fixing them at their orignal cost, they must be assessed at their value, taking into consideration their deteriorations, if any, at that time. Instead of commencing the rents on the subject improved, so soon as the improvements were made, they must commence at the same date when the improvements are to be valued, and be charged on the subject as then improved, and still be increased or diminished as the improvements increase or decrease, until the time of assessment, and thus equity will prevail. We also conceive that the tenant or occupant here must be charged with waste and injury to the premises, arising from his acts of badly treating the subject, or through bad husbandry, during occupancy. This last direction was casually omitted in the former opinion. It is decreed and ordered, that the petition for a rehearing be overruled, and that the former decree do stand unaltered, except that in the execution thereof in the court below, the proceedings must conform to the opinion now delivered, so far as it varies from the former opinion, and in other respects the former opinion of this court must prevail. Ky.App. 1823. Ewing's Heirs v. Handley's Ex'rs 4 Litt. 346, 14 Ky. 346, 1823 WL 1300 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 140 END OF DOCUMENT
