(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 385,  19 Ky. 385 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1322 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. McClain v. French. Oct. 23, 1826. *1 Evidence. Conveyances. Specific Performance. Covenants. Rescission of Contracts. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 551 228 Judgment 228XIII Merger and Bar of Causes of Action and Defenses 228XIII(A) Judgments Operative as Bar 228k549 Nature of Action or Other Proceeding 228k551 k. Actions at Law or Suits in Equity. Most Cited  Cases A judgment in ejectment does not, in general, conclude the parties as to any matter that may have been there tried, so as to prevent its investigation in chancery. Judgment 228 k 554 228 Judgment 228XIII Merger and Bar of Causes of Action and Defenses 228XIII(A) Judgments Operative as Bar 228k549 Nature of Action or Other Proceeding 228k554 k. Actions Relating to Real Property. Most Cited  Cases As the verdict and judgment in ejectment is no bar to another action brought for the same land on the demise of the same lessor against the same tenant, so in all contests in chancery, when the judgment is used collaterally, except on bills brought to impeach or be relieved from it, it cannot be held to conclude the parties thereto. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 155 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(B) Conveyance 400k155 k. Approval and Acceptance. Most Cited  Cases The obligor of a bond for a title cannot vest the title in the obligee by making a deed and having it recorded against the will of the latter;  and if, in such case, the obligor conveys to another, he must give up his claim against the obligee for the purchase money. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The complainant below filed his bill, alleging that he was possessed for a long time, of a tract of land of 200 acres, and holding title thereto; that a certain James French set up title to the same land, under an adverse patent and insisted that he was entitled thereto; and to quiet his title and possession, he bought of French, at the rate of one dollar per acre and executed his note for the money and French executed his bond to him stipulating to convey the land when the purchase money was paid, retaining the title as a security for the purchase money. McClain's bill alleging French had sold him his own land, &c. That on his failing to make payment on the day it was due, French brought suit against him on his note and obtained judgment, and then went into the clerk's office, and executed a deed to him for the land, without his knowledge or consent, and when told of it, he refused to accept it, and never had accepted; but French paid the tax on the deed, and caused it to be recorded, and then caused his execution to be levied on the land, and at the sheriff's sale purchased the land at a sum less than the execution, leaving a balance still due thereon, and that he had lost or mislaid the bond of French for the title, or it was in the possession of one of the defendants, he is doubtful which, and on this, as well to other allegations, he calls for an answer. *2 French recovers judgment for the purchase money and having executed a deed and had it recorded for the land against McClain's will, had it sold under execution and purchases himself for part of the judgment. He then states that French afterwards sold the land and conveyed it to John Kelsoe, and also assigned to him the balance of the judgment. That Kelsoe brought an ejectment against him for the land, on the trial of which he made proof of his non-acceptance, of the conveyance from French, and the court instructed the jury that if he had not accepted the conveyance no title passed, but still the jury found a verdict against him and judgment was rendered accordingly; that being poor, and his means exhausted, he ceased to contend for the possession longer and left it, and Kelsoe took and enjoyed it, and was now pressing him with the balance of the execution for the purchase money assigned to him, Kelsoe, by French. French sells the land and balance of the judgment to Kelsoe, who recovers the land in ejectment, and presses the judgment. He made Kelsoe and French defendants, and prayed for and obtained an injunction, and that the land might be restored to him with rents, or that it might be sold for the debt and the balance be paid to him, or for general or some relief. McClain makes French and Kelsoe defendants to his bill, and prays for injunction and general relief. Kelsoe answered, but French demurred to the bill, and the court sustained the demurrer, and dissolved the injunction, and dismissed the bill with costs and damages as to French, and let the cause stand as to Kelsoe. Kelsoe's answer. French demurs, and the circuit court sustains the demurrer. To reverse the decree on the demurrer as to French he has prosecuted this writ of error. Judgments in ejectment do not in the general conclude the parties as to any matter that may have been there tried so as to prevent its investigation in chancery. It is clear that the complainant is at liberty to aver and shew the fact that he never accepted the deed from French to him, notwithstanding the judgment in ejectment obtained by French's alienee against him. This bill is not brought to enjoin that judgment, and as the verdict and judgment in ejectment, is no bar to another action brought for the same land, on the demise of the same lessor, against the same tenant, so in all contests in chancery, when the judgment is sued collaterally, except in bills brought to impeach or be relieved from it, it can not be held to conclude the parties thereto. Besides, this judgment is obtained by Kelsoe and not by French, against whom this writ of error is brought, and it is more than probable, that Kelsoe recovered not on the strength of the sale, by execution, bu by the force of the title conveyed to him by French independent of the sheriff's sale. It is also evident that on McClain, the plaintiff in error, refusing to accept the deed from French, he McClain took no title from French, and the conveyance bond from French to him, remained undischarged and in full force, and French, by the sale under execution did not take back any title which he parted with by his conveyance, for he had parted with none, but only obtained the title, such as it is, which McClain held before he bought, and took the bond from French. *3 Obligor can not vest obligee with the title by making and having a deed recorded against his will-- Nor so discharge his obligation-- Nor re-acquire the title he had thus not parted with by purchasing the land under execution against obligee for the purchase money-- If obligor in such case convey to another he shall not afterwards coerce the purchase money. If after the refusal of McClain to accept the conveyance, French had treated the contract as no longer obligatory upon him, and had declined further to insist upon it, and had sold the land to Kelsoe, he would have had more plausible grounds, on which he could rest his exemption from the relief sought by the bill of McClain. But this he did not do. He proceeds to insist upon the coercion of his contract, by execution against McClain, and at the same time has conveyed away the title to Kelsoe, which he stipulated to convey to McClain. He can not be permitted to do both. If he insists upon the contract, he must stand ready to fulfil it; if he abandons the contract by a sale of the land to another he must give up his claim against McClain for the purchase money. The only plausible answer which French could give to these positions, is, that by offering a title to McClain and his rejection thereof, he, McClain, can never afterwards resort to a court of equity to coerce the contract, but is left to his remedy at law. It is by no means clear that McClain, by rejecting the title, cut off a future application to a court of equity. French was not bound to convey till the purchase money was paid, consequently McClain could not be bound to accept till French was bound to convey, and the fact of his refusing to accept before he was bound to do so, cannot forfeit his right to insist upon his contract after it came to maturity. It is not clear that refusal of obligee to accept the conveyance before it was demandable will preclude him from afterwards insisting on it in equity. But if it be admitted that McClain lost his right to resort to a court of equity by rejecting the conveyance offered by French, and that his remedy at law alone remained, that remedy is so impeded with difficulties that he may have a right to resort to a court of equity, because he alleges that his bond is lost, or in possession of the defendants; but still more, because he can have no remedy at law, till the money is paid, or until French violates his part of the contract which he has done by conveying away the land, and this conveyance we conceive may give McClain a right to set aside the contract. If obligor afterwards convey to another, obligee may have a rescission. The court, therefore, erred in sustaining the demurrer of French to the bill, and the demurrer must be reversed with costs and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiff; Jas. Trimble, for defendant. On the 23d of October, the court adjourned to the 7th of December. *4 In the recess, Chief Justice Boyle received the commission of Judge of the United States, for the District of Kentucky, bearing date the 20th October, and on the 8th of November, took the oaths of office, whereby the office of Chief Justice was vacated, and so remained for the balance of the time of this volume. Ky.App. 1826. McClain v. French 3 T.B.Mon. 385, 19 Ky. 385, 1826 WL 1322 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
