(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 248,  20 Ky. 248 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1412 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mills' Heirs & Dale v. Bodley. Apr. 3, 1827. *1 Entries. Bar by Lapse of Time. Widow's Possession. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 7(1) 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(A) Acquisition of Rights by Prescription in General 20k5 Property Subject to Prescription 20k7 Public Property in  General 20k7(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The statute begins to run against the right of the holder of a superior title to bring action against an adverse claimant, at the time of the issue of the adverse grant. Adverse Possession 20 k 43(6) 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(E) Duration and Continuity of Possession 20k43 Tacking Successive Possessions 20k43(6) k. Decedent and Heirs and Representatives. Most  Cited Cases The residence of their ancestor and his widow afterwards for more than 20 years will, as to the heirs bar an adverse claimant. The widow could not, without the assent of the heirs, change the character of her possession. Adverse Possession 20 k 50 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(E) Duration and Continuity of Possession 20k50 k. Recognition of Title of Former Owner. Most Cited  Cases The promise of an adverse claimant to land, to the widow in possession, that she shall not be turned out, does not bar the running of the statute of limitations. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Bodley, as complainant, filed his bill in the court below, relying on the specialty of his entry for relief against an elder adverse patent. The entry on which he relies is one for 20,000 acres, in the names of Tibbs, &c., which was held valid by this court, in the case of  M'Kee v. Bodley, &c., 2 Bibb, 481, to which reference is made for its calls and merits. The testimony is as strong in favor of the entry in this case as it was in that, and the same entry has been so often supported by this court, as well as the supreme court of the nation, that the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, has not questioned its validity here. Tibbs, John, his 20,000 acre entry again held valid. The plaintiffs in error relied on their elder grant, and the undisturbed possession under it for more than twenty years before the commencement of this suit, and made out that defence in proof. Elder grant and bar by the adversary possession for 20 years relied on. The court below held this defence unavailing, because the patent of Bodley was not twenty years old when the suit was brought, and decreed a surrender of the legal estate, and to reverse that decree, this writ of error is prosecuted. Decree of the circuit court. The reason for this decision is so palpably untenable, that the counsel for Bodley in this court, has candidly surrendered it as indefensible. If Bodley, or his alienor, could not have maintained his suit in equity till the emanation of the grant, this reason would have been correct, by analogy to the decision of this court at common law, which has held the defence of twenty years possession insufficient to toll a right of entry, which could not exist before a patent, when the patent was not twenty years old. But as Bodley's entry existed before the grant of the defendants below, and that grant was more than twenty years old at the commencement of this suit, his right to sue in equity commenced at the emanation of that grant, and existed ever since, till by his laches he has lost it, in consequences of the undisturbed occupancy of his adversaries. *2 Right of the holder of the superior entry to maintain his bill against an adversary claimant commences with the issuing of the adversary grant. It is, however, contended, that the decision of the court below is right for another reason, apparent in the record, and not relied on in the court below. The ancestor of the plaintiffs in error, settled on the land under the elder grant, in the year, 1794, and some time thereafter died, leaving his widow and children in possession. The widow continued her residence, by the indulgence of her children, or probably under the provisions of the Act of Assembly, which authorizes a widow to possess the mansion house and tract of her deceased husband, till her dower is assigned. In this situation, in the year 1801 or 1802, Bodley verbally agreed with and promised the widow, that he would not disturb or turn her out of possession, or deprive her of a home during her natural life, and the widow continued to enjoy the possession, in some degree unmolested, till this suit was brought; and it is now insisted that this agreement sufficiently accounts for the lapse of time, and that Bodley, for this indulgence, ought not to be barred. Hence the commencement of the time to bar the bill is not postponed to the date of the junior grant. Alleged arrangement with the widow in possession relied on by Bodley as avoiding the bar by the lapse of time. It is readily conceded that agreements may be made between a claimant and an occupant, whereby the title of the claimant is acknowledged, and the possession be changed from an adverse to an amicable possession, and which may destroy the effect of lapse of time as a bar, both at law and in equity; but we can not admit that this one of that character. Character of the occupant's possession may be changed from the adverse to the amicable, and so the bar avoided. The tenant here does not seem to have acknowledged the land to belong to Bodley, nor did she agree to hold under him; but it has the appearance of gratuitous kindness in Bodley, that he would not turn her out without a home in the event of his being successful in recovering the land, and there is nothing in it which prevented him from commencing and prosecuting his suit for the land to a final decree, and then suspending his execution in fulfilment of his promise. Promise of the adversary claimant to the widow in possession, that she shall not be turned out, does not avoid the running of the limitation. Moreover, the residence of the ancestor before his death, and the continued occupancy of the widow was a possession, of which the heirs might avail themselves by their plea, and they were the necessary parties to this suit, and we are not disposed to admit that the widow had the right to convert the adverse possession into a friendly one, without their concurrence, so as to prevent them from relying on lapse of time as a bar to relief against their title. We, therefore, conceive that there is nothing in the agreement which prevented Bodley from bringing his suit, or calculated to lull him into supineness, or to change the adverse possession into one consistent with his title, and the heirs, therefore, were entitled to rely upon the length of time to defeat him, and their defence ought to have been sustained. *3 Residence of the ancestor before his death, and continued occupancy of the widow afterwards, will constitute a bar for the heirs against an adversary claimant____ The decree is, therefore, reversed, with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill with costs. --In such case the widow could not change the character of her possession without the heirs' concurrence. Haggin, for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Mills' Heirs v. Bodley 4 T.B.Mon. 248, 20 Ky. 248, 1827 WL 1412 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
