(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 235,  10 Ky. 235 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1046 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robert Gilchrist v. Edward O. Williams. Apr. 5, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE BRECKENRIDGE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 41 241 Limitation of Actions 241I Statutes of Limitation 241I(B) Limitations Applicable to Particular Actions 241k41 k. Set-offs, counterclaims, and cross-actions. Most  Cited Cases A claim, an action on which would be barred by the statute of limitations, cannot be set off. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 75 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak75 k. Use of deposition. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k86  Depositions) An agreement to admit a deposition sub modo, though signed by one party only, and intended as an accommodation to the other who accepts it, is mutual, and though the party in whose favor the admission was intended may at the trial waive the reading of it, his adversary is entitled to use it, subject to the exceptions contained in the agreement. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This cause has been before this court on two former occasions, and reversed at the instance of Williams, the plaintiff below, now appellee, as will be seen in  3 Bibb, 49;  4 Bibb, 527. On the third trial, a verdict and judgment was obtained by the appellee; and the only questions made by the appellant on the trial below, and now assigned for error, are the following. During the progress of the cause, the defendant below obtained leave to take the deposition of a witness de bene esse. This deposition was taken with notice to, and in presence of, the attorney of Williams, the plaintiff below, which attorney also acted then and since as the agent of Williams in conducting the cause, he, Williams, being absent from the state. At the taking of the deposition, the following agreement was procured in favor of Gilchrist, who took the deposition, from the attorney of Williams, and signed by him only, to-wit--"As counsel for Doc. Williams I do agree that the foregoing deposition, answers and interrogatories shall be read in evidence, reserving to myself the right to object to the competency of the witness, and to any part which may be deemed illegal or irrelevant to the point in issue." This deposition, which had remained in the cause during all the trials, was offered in evidence by the counsel of Williams in his favor; Gilchrist, not choosing to use it himself, objected to the use of it by Williams, on the ground that the witness had not been summoned, and was not shewn to be out of the commonwealth. The court admitted the deposition as evidence in favor of Williams, and Gilchrist, the defendant below, excepted. The propriety of this decision depends on the construction of the written agreement on the part of the appellee's counsel, and the effect it is to have on the appellant, in whose favor it was made. We can not hesitate to say, that this agreement amounts to a positive permission to read the deposition in chief, and dispense with the attendance of the witness. It declares the deposition shall be read, subject only to objections of competency and irrelevant and illegal testimony. Of course, the exception of the non-attendance of the witness or proof of his absence from the state, was completely waived. If it was not waived, the agreement amounted to nothing, as with proving the absence of the witness, the deposition could be read without it. But how is the appellant, for whose benefit this agreement was made, to be affected by it? As to him there was no necessity of his making such agreement, as he wished the use of the testimony without further trouble, and he accepted an agreement made for his benefit. Ought he not, therefore, to be estopped by it? We conceive that he ought, and that he ought to be subject to the disadvantages. The effect of the agreement ought to be mutual. If he accepted an engagement in his favor, it ought to be binding on him so far as to allow his adversary, who made the concession, to make use of the same evidence, in the same manner, and upon the same terms, if it proved any thing in his favor. Besides, the reason why one party may demand the production in person of his adversary's witness is, that he may be confronted, interrogated and shewn before the jury, in order that his testimony may be critically examined or impeached. This the appellant had no need of, as he attached credit to the witness--had examined him to his satisfaction, and had made him his own. We therefore conceive the court below properly admitted the deposition. *2 An agreement to admit a deposition sub mode though signed by one party only, and intended as an accommodation to the other, who accepts it, is mutual; and though the party in whose favor the admission was intended, may at the trial, waive the reading of it, his adversary is entitled to use it, subject to the exceptions contained in the agreement. It is assigned for error that the court below erred in rejecting the reading of the defendant's account, offered under a notice of set-off, because it was barred by the statute of limitations. The dates of the account shewed that they were barred, and no evidence was tendered to shew that they were of a later date. This question in substance was decided when this cause was first before this court; and for the reasons then given, this court now approve the decision of the court below. A motion for a new trial was made and overruled, and this opinion is questioned. The only evidence was the deposition before noticed, and it strongly conduced to establish several counts in the plaintiff's declaration, as well as to give the defendant many credits, which had been allowed on a former settlement, and we can not say that the finding of the jury was not supported by it. If a defendant's account is barred by the statute of limitations, it can not be used as a set off. The judgment must therefore be affirmed with costs and damages. Crittenden, for appellant; C. Wickliffe, for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Gilchrist v. Williams 3 A.K.Marsh. 235, 10 Ky. 235, 1821 WL 1046 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
