(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 399,  22 Ky. 399 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1169 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Maupin and Wife v. Goodloe. Jan. 2, 1828. *1 ??evises. Exceptions. Constructions. Wills. Slaves. Maxims. Executors. Costs. APPEAL FROM THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 481 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(A) General Rules 409k481 k. Time from Which Will Speaks. Most Cited  Cases The intention of the testator at the date of the will controls the interpretation of it. Wills 409 k 584 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(D) Description of Property 409k584 k. Exception from General Devise or Bequest. Most  Cited Cases The expression "except what shall be mentioned hereafter" embraces only the articles afterwards otherwise devised, and not such as were mentioned for other purposes. Wills 409 k 728 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(A) Nature of Title and Rights in General 409k728 k. Rents and Profits, Income, and Accumulations. Most  Cited Cases By a devise, "To my daughter C. I give a negro girl, D., increase excepted, till after our [his and his wife's] death," D. passes to the widow for life, then to C., and the child of D., born before the widow's death, passes after her death to the residuary legatee. OPINION OF THE COURT BY CH. J. BIBB. Daniel Swaney's will and testament, ??earing date in May, 1799, was duly admitted to record, in November of that year. By the first clause, he gives all his estate, real and personal, to his wife, as long as she remains single, ?? except that which shall be mentioned hereafter." He gives legacies to children, some specific, and some in money. But those necessary to be recited, in connection with the devise to his wife, are to Catherine, and the residuary devise to James. Daniel Swaney's last will and testament. "To my daughter, Catherine Swaney, I give my negro girl, named Dolly, increase excepted, till our death." Also at our death, if any estate, yet remaining that is not willed, my son James is to have it, and he is to take care of us, and see to our business while we live." The expressions, "our death," as used in this will, I think were intended to allude to the testator and his wife. The girl Dolly, devised to Catherine, had issue, Amy, the subject of controversy, born in or about the year 1812, and in the lifetime of the widow of the testator; the widow died about the last of the year, 1823, or first of 1824, James Swaney, the residuary devisee, died before the birth of Amy. The widow of the residuary devisee James, obtained letters of administration upon the estate of her deceased husband, and having married Jessee Maupin, they, Maupin and wife, as administrators of James Swaney, the residuary devisee, brought this action of detinue against Goodloe. *2 Statement of facts. Upon the plea of non-detinet, and the statute of limitations, the parties were at issue. Upon the facts foregoing, the court instructed the jury, that the title to Amy, the issue of Dolly, did not vest in James, the son, by virtue of the will, nor in his administratrix; but came to Catharine, by virtue of the devise of Dolly, the mother of Amy; to which instruction, the plaintiff in detinue, took a bill of exceptions. The jury found for the defendant, and so the judgment was given, of which Maupin and wife complain. Decision of the circuit court on the will, and verdict and judgment for defendant. This will was dictated by an illiterate testator, who subscribes with his mark; and the writer has not improved the diction of the testator. There is enough in the will to give effect to the residuary devise to James, without straining the clause to Catherine, for the purpose of giving operation to the residuary devise to James. Whether Amy, born of Dolly, after the death of the testator, but in the lifetime of the wife, does now, since the death of the wife, belong to Catharine, the daughter of the testator, or the representative of James, the son is a question of intention, to be collected from the will. On this devise succeeding in the will, a general devise to the wife for her widowhood, and succeeded by a residuary bequest to James, a son--"I give to my daughter Catherine Swaney, my negro girl named Dolly, increase excepted, till our death"-- held Dolly passed immediatley to Catherine and not to the widow for life--and that a child born of Dolly between the testator's and widow's death, passed at her death to Catherine and not to James. By the devise of Dolly to his daughter Catherine, I think, the interest and title in Dolly passed, and vested directly in Catherine, upon the death of the testator; and was not suspended until the death of the widow. The devise of the estate to the wife, as made, does not include the slave Dolly, and pass a life estate in her to the wife. When Amy was born, Dolly, the mother, was the property of Catherine, and Amy would follow the condition of her mother, and belong to Catherine, the owner of Dolly, unless there is something to be found in the will, to restrain and qualify that operation of law. Dolly was devised, the will took effect upon the death of the testator, and immediately on his death, Dolly became the property of Catherine; the devise of Dolly to Catherine, carried along with her all her increase, born after the death of the testator, except so far, and so far only, as the testator has expressed his will and intention to the contrary. The words of restraint used are, "increase excepted till after our death." The place in the sentence, in which the word "excepted" is put, helps to brighten the sense and import, intended by the testator. If he had in view, to take away from his daughter Catherine forever, all the increase to be born of Dolly, during the life of himself and wife, this would have been the natural, familiar and popular order of placing the words: "increase till after our death excepted." In this latter order, the words, "increase till after our death," designate what is to be excepted, and the word "excepted" is without limitation to the extent and duration of the exception; the words, "till after our death" would thus designate and limit the things or subject of exception; but the duration of the exception, as to its operation upon the things or subject of the exception would be unlimited. But in the order of the words as used, "increase excepted till after our death," "increase" is the subject of exceptions, "till after our death," are words of limitation, to designate not the things or subject of exception, but the duration of the exception; the word "till," limits and qualifies the continuation of the exception, but not the things or subjects to be excepted. *3 The first clause in the will, gives to the wife an estate during life or widowhood in all the property of the testator, "except that which shall be mentioned hereafter;" every other clause, and all the other devises operate as exceptions to the devise to the wife; and operates only to the extent of the exception, by the devises inconsistent with that to the wife. My understanding of the will, from all its parts, is that the testator meant to reserve to himself and to his wife, all the increase of Dolly; but that after their deaths, all the increase of Dolly, born after the date of his will, he intended to go to Catherine. So long as he lived, Dolly and increase would, of course, be secured to himself. How long he would live, and whether himself or his wife would be the longest liver, he could not know. Intending Dolly and her increase for his daughter, but as to the increase, intending to reserve them to himself and his wife, during the life of the longest liver, he uses words, which to his mind, conveyed his intention. He gave Dolly to his daughter; the increase too, he intended for her, after himself and wife were dead; he adds, "increase excepted till after our death," meaning that after that time, the increase of Dolly was also to go to his daughter. Argument on the exception and limitation in the testament. If the girl, Amy, had been born in the lifetime of the testator, I acknowledge I should have great hesitation in giving Amy to Catherine, although such, I am strongly inclined to believe, was the testator's intention in that event. But in such event the rule of law, that "a will speaks at the time of the testator's death," would have operated against the claim of Catherine; and it would have required a strong indication of intention on the part of the testator, that this clause should speak as at the date of the testament, to have carried increase born after the date, but before the death of testator. It would, in case Amy had been born before the death of the testator, have been proper to let the general rules of law pre??ail, rather than to break upon them, by a sentence ??bscurely expressed. But as Amy was born after the testator's death, and of Dolly, then unquestionably the property of Catharine, I am satisfied that ??he rule "partus sequiter ventrem," should not be obstructed by the clause in question. That rule, and ??he intention of the testator both concur, as I think, ??o assign Amy to Catherine, after the death of the ??estator and his wife also. Query, as to who would own a child born of the slave devised between the date of the devise and death of testator--a will speaks at testator's death. I will explain what operation I give to the rule, ????partus sequiter ventrem. " If Amy had been born in ??he lifetime of the testator, (and whether the wife ??ad died before Amy's birth, living the testator, or ??ot, is not material), then Dolly, the mother, being ??he property of the testator, Amy, her child, must ??ave been the testator's also, and Catherine must ??ave found a clause in the will sufficiently plain to ??ave given her the child Amy, as well as the child's ??other, Dolly--some intention of the testator to ??ake his will speak as of May, 1799, instead of as of ??he time of his death. But as the testator died first, ?? that the will took effect, and gave Dolly to the ?? aughter Catherine, Amy, after born of Dolly, the ??roperty of Catherine, followed the condition and ??roperty in the mother, and so belonged to Cath?? rine, except so far only as a contrary bequest was ??ntained in the will. Such bequest, divesting the ??ght of Catherine, I think is not to be found, ex??pt only for and during the life of the wife. Nor ??es this rule alter or vary in its application, wheth?? the wife, or the testator, survived. If the wife ??as the testatrix, and disposing of Dolly by her ??ill and testament, then the death of the wife, be??re or after the birth of Amy, would have affected ??e question; because the will would, in that case, ??ve spoken as of the time of her death and not as ?? the time of the husband's death. But as the ??usband alone was testator, the death of the wife, ?? no degree affects the question when the will spoke; it must speak and take effect at the death of the testator; whether it can or was intended to speak as of the date at which it was written, remains just as doubtful; whether the wife had died before the testator, or after the testator, but after Amy's birth, does in no degree alter the meaning. *4 Partus sequitur ventrem--where the will speaks, depends on the testator's intention. But for the contrary opinion expressed by the other member of the court who sits in the case, I should have had no doubt of the construction which I have given. However, after mature deliberation, with all due respect for his opinion, I have delivered my own, and have adopted that effect which in my judgment seems most conformable to the rules of law, and the intention of the testator?? I believe that the intent of the testator was to reserve?? any increase of Dolly born after the date of his?? will, to the use of his wife, if she was the survivor?? during her life, and then the increase to go to his?? daughter as Dolly did. As events turned out, the?? wife might have had the services of Amy, for many years before her death, had she been disposed to?? claim them. Having given his whole estate to his?? wife, except what was named thereafter, when h?? gave Dolly to his daughter, excepting for and during his wife's life, the increase, it was not necessary again to express that he excepted, during that period, the use of the increase for the benefi?? of his wife. Judge Mills holds the contrary of the opinion of the Chief Justice. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. The following are the devising clause?? of the will of the testator, now to be construed to-wit: "To my true and loving wife, Sarah Swaney, do give all and every of my estate, real and persona?? as long as she lives, except that which shall be me??tioned hereafter." Devising clauses of the will. "And I do by these presents allow, and ordai?? that all my lawful debts shall be paid." "And to my son William Swaney, I do give an?? bequeath, after my wife's death, thirty pounds out ?? the value of negro boy Harry, if living. But ?? the boy is dead, the said William Swaney, sha?? have five shillings." "And to my daughter Elizabeth Green, I do give five shillings." "To my son John Swaney, I do give the tenth part of the value of the hundred acres of land he now lives on, in equal payments with the balance of the payments." "To my daughter Mary Swaney, I give five shillings. "To my son Samuel Swaney, I give one cow and calf." "To my son Robert Swaney, I give one mare worth fifteen or twenty pounds." "To my daughter Catherine Swaney, I give my ??egro girl, named Dolly, increase excepted till after our death, also our bed and furniture, and one chest." "Also to by son James Swaney above named, I give and bequeath my negro boy named Harry, and to pay the thirty pounds to William Swaney, if the boy lives to come into his possession; also at our death, if any estate yet remaining that is not willed, my son James is to have it, and he is to take care of us, and to see to our business while we live." After the death of the testator, and before the death of his widow, the girl Dolly bequeathed to Catherine, had a daughter, named Amy, now the subject of this suit, and the question is to whom Amy passed by the will, after the death of the widow, to James or to Catherine? If to James, the plaintiffs below ought to recover. If to Catherine, the law is for defendant. The question must be decided on the construction of the will. In giving ??hat construction, the cardinal principle of intention ought to prevail. *5 Question stated. I am by no means prepared to admit that the words "except that which shall be mentioned hereafter," in the devise to the wife, are to be taken in ??heir literal sense, and that his wife should be excluded from taking a life estate in every article thereaf??er mentioned, or named; but the design was to exclude her from taking those things, which he should expressly direct to pass otherwise, and that for the ??ollowing reasons. He mentioned most of his estate afterwards, and if mentioning it excluded his wife, then she took little or nothing, and the large and liberal devise to her was defeated. For instance, he seems to have had but two negroes, to-wit: Harry and Dolly. He mentions Harry after the devise to his wife. Did she therefore, lose the right to him for her life? William is to have thirty pounds, part of the value of Harry, "if living at his wife's death," but if the boy was dead, then nothing but five shillings. He also grants Harry to James, and binds him to pay the thirty pounds to William, "if the boy lives to come into his possession." All this time not one word is said as to whom Harry shall belong till the death of his wife, and Harry being mentioned taking the words literally, he could not belong to the wife; yet I can not doubt that the expectation of the testator was, that Harry should remain with his wife till her death, and that his will should be so interpreted. Expression "except what shall be mentioned hereafter," held to embrace only the articles afterwards otherwise devised, and not such as were mentioned for other purposes. The same reasoning applies to Dolly, she is devised to Catherine, without saying when; but it is added, "increase excepted, till after our death," and why? Because he supposed that Dolly would not go to Catherine, till after the death of his wife, Whose property then was Dolly, at the birth of Amy, born before the wife's death? The proper answer is, Dolly, belonged to the widow, and Catherine was entitled to the remainder, and thus the rule that partus sequiter ventrem can have no operation. The expressions excepting the increase of Catherine, till the death of his wife, show as clearly that Dolly was not to belong to Catherine till his wife's death, as the expressions, that part of the value of Harry was not to go William, and that James was not to pay it till that time, show that Harry was not to go to James till after the wife's estate was satisfied. This construction is strengthened by the following considerations. Catherine's age is not in proof; but as she is mentioned last, she was probably the youngest. Indeed she might then have been an infant of tender years, and not have been expected to need Dolly till her mother's death. Held that by the devise "to my daughter Catherine I give my negro girl, named Dolly, increase excepted, till after our death," Dolly passes to the widow, for life, and then to Catherine--and the child of Dolly, born before the widow's death passes, after the widow's death, to James the residuary legatee. *6 It is improbable that when the testator had but two slaves, and meant to make his wife the main object of his bounty, he should take either one or both from his wife, and especially the female, whose services might be more essential. It is still more probable, that as he had but two, and one could increase and the other could not, that he should make such an unequal division, as to give the one who might have a numerous offspring to Catherine, and only give Harry to James, and that after he might be worn out, taxed with a debt of thirty pounds to William. It was to make the division more equal between James and Catherine, that he excepted the increase till after the death both of himself and wife. They were the last children unprovided for. But if this view should be mistaken, and it be conceded that Dolly passed to Catherine immediately on the death of the testator, still the will can not bear any other interpretation, than that the words "increase excepted till after our death," excepted so much out of the bequest of Catherine. These words must have one of two meanings. The plaintiffs below contend it was an exception of so much from the grant to Catherine, and the defendant, that it was an exception out of the time when so much of the grant should go to Catherine. That is, that Dolly should pass immediately, but her increase should not pass till after the death of both the testator and his wife. Thus the testator took from his wife the grown slave, and taxed her with the trouble of raising the infant offspring till her death, to be handed over to Catherine free of expense. It may be said that this increase, or offspring, it might be of some service to the old lady. It is granted they might, if she should live long enough after they were raised to enjoy their labor. But it is presumed that the mother of this expected family would still have been of greater service, and a better bequest. Construction disapproved, which would give the mother slave to one and her offspring immediately to another for life. It is conceded on all hands, and can not be denied, that by the expressions ""our death," "while we live," and "our business;" the testator by his plural terms, designed himself and wife. He could not have meant himself only. He in common language felt as if his wife, the former object of his affection, and now the object of his bounty, was associated with him, and speaking as well as he, in the language of the will, and therefore, the "increase excepted," meant such as should be born before the death of himself and wife. Put the case, therefore, that the testator should have survived his wife, and that Amy had been born during his life. Then on his death the same will, and same words must be susceptible of a different meaning, and the rule partus sequiter ventrem, could have had no effect. Thus the meaning and intention of the testator when he wrote his will, which is the very thing we are in search of, and which, when ascertained must prevail, would have been varied by future events, when neither the words of the will, or intention of the testator could have undergone any change. *7 Intention of the testator at the date of the will is the object of enquiry which can not depend on a subsequent event. The rule, that the meaning of the testator when he wrote, should govern in the construction of the will, has always prevailed in this court, and that without regard to the rule, that a will of personal estate must speak at the death of the testator, further than to ascertain by it, what the testator meant at the date of the will. Thus the devise of a slave and her increase has been held to pass that part of the increase born during the life of the testator, notwithstanding the will only spoke at the testator's death. It is certainly, therefore, proper to give the rule no effect, when the testator speaks of "our death," and shows that he intended the will should cover transactions and births of slaves, the offspring of Dolly during his own life, as well as afterwards?? It seems that the will speaks at its date, it may look to and speak as upon a future state of case. Nor am I able to perceive the application of the power of the rule partus sequiter ventrem, to the case of the offspring of slaves. It is used in the English law to determine relationship, or rights o?? inheritance among free persons, but never could be applied in that county to the offspring of slaves?? Neither is it so applied by our parent State Virginia, as I can find. Nor have they ever determined that the right of property in a child shall of cours?? pass with the mother. There is, indeed, a solitary?? case in this court, where the offspring of a slave held by tenant for life, shall pass with the mother to the remainder man, and this, it must be confessed, is an exception to the general rule which governs other articles of property, such as live cattle, the young of which goes absolutely to the tenant for life, and not the person in remainder, and a respectable court of a sister State, has decided that the same rule holds with regard to slaves. But admitting the doctrine to be as decided by this court, it does not thence follow, that the rule is adopted in obedience to the maxim, partus sequiter ventrem, which applies to other subjects, and different persons. Partus sequitur ventrem--one case in this court has given the remain-derman the children of the mother held by another for life, otherwise is the rule of beasts. In every way, therefore, in which I can view the words, "increase excepted till after our death," while it is conceded that "our death," means the death both of the testator and his wife, they carry with them a conviction, that Catherine had no title to the increase born before the death of both her parents. Nor do the order in which the words stand, after their meaning. For if they be read, "increase till after our death, etc.," or except increase till our death, or as they stand in the will, they still express the same plain idea, and that is, that the increase itself is excepted, and not a portion of time excepted, at the expiration of which the gift shall take effect. They do not suspend the time when the increase is to pass. Though they may show the intention of the testator, that Catherine should have nothing in either Dolly or her increase, till both the testator and his wife were dead. I therefore, conceive, that the judgment ought to be reversed for an erroneous instruction to the jury. *8 Conclusion against the decision of the circuit court. DECISIONS OF THE COURT. But organized as this court is, with such few members, where one can not adjudicate, there may be no power in the court to decide the controversy, and however much parties may be dissatisfied by such an event, it is one for which we can afford no remedy. We can only give our opinions from our best convictions. The judgment for costs, can alone be corrected. Two judges only adjudicating and not concurring, the decision of the circuit court affirmed. The consequence of this division of opinion, (Judge Owsley not adjudicating in the case) is, that the opinion and instruction of the judge must prevail, and the verdict of the jury must stand. It can not be reversed. But in rendering the judgment for costs, it is given against the plaintiffs in their own individual character, whereas they sued as administrator of James Swaney, deceased; the judgment for the costs must be reformed, so as to be levied of the assets of the intestate in their hands, &c. Costs against an unsuccessful plaintiff: execution directed to be rendered de bonis testatoris. Defendants in this court, to pay to plaintiff, his costs in this court expended. Judge Owsley did not sit in this cause. Hanson and Turner, for appellants; Caperton, for appellee. Ky.App. 1828. Maupin v. Goodloe 6 T.B.Mon. 399, 22 Ky. 399, 1828 WL 1169 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
