(Cite as: 3 J.J.Marsh. 236,  26 Ky. 236 (Ky.),  1830 WL 2096 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Whitaker, &c. v. Blair, &c. Oct. 18, 1827. *1 Trustees. Wife's Equity in Land. Privy Examination. Deeds. Recording. Alienation. ERROR TO THE LOGAN CIRCUIT; HENRY BROADNAX, SUDGE. West Headnotes Acknowledgment 12 k 34 12 Acknowledgment 12II Taking and Certificate 12k28 Making and Requisites of Certificate 12k34 k. Record. Most Cited Cases A wife's equity in land is not conveyed by her and her husband during coverture by a conveyance which she acknowledges alone, but that conveyance must be recorded in the office of the clerk in the county in which the land lies. Deeds 120 k 84 120 Deeds 120II Recording and Registration 120k84 k. Place. Most Cited Cases An act requiring that the transfer of a wife's estate shall be "duly recorded" was held to mean recorded in the county where the land lies, or in one of the general recording offices. Deeds 120 k 123 120 Deeds 120III Construction and Operation 120III(C) Estates and Interests Created 120k123 k. Particular Words or Terms. Most Cited  Cases A husband conveyed land for the benefit of the wife, "her heirs and assigns, forever."  In the habendum it was declared that the estate should be "retained for the benefit of the said wife, her heirs and assigns forever."  The husband covenanted that he would hold the estate "for the benefit of said wife and her heirs, forever."  Held, that the word "heirs" had its usual significance, and did not mean issue only. Husband and Wife 205 k 182 205 Husband and Wife 205V Wife's Separate Estate 205V(D) Conveyances and Contracts to Convey 205k182 k. Nature and Essentials of Transaction in General.  Most Cited Cases Where a husband conveys land to a trustee for the benefit of his wife and her heirs and assigns, the wife, united with the husband, may dispose of the estate in any legal mode, without the trustee. Husband and Wife 205 k 194 205 Husband and Wife 205V Wife's Separate Estate 205V(D) Conveyances and Contracts to Convey 205k190 Conveyances in General 205k194 k. Acknowledgment and Record. Most Cited  Cases A deed of a married woman will pass no interest in her land as her separate estate unless her privy acknowledgment is recorded within the time required by statute. JUDGE MILLS delivered the opinion of the Court. Henry C. Gist, married Ann Paca; and before her marriage, being of full age, she had received from her guardian, a conveyance for 200 acres of land, and had executed to him, in consideration thereof, a discharge, for the sum of sixteen hundred dollars, due to her, as his ward, it being her patrimony. After the marriage, Gist became dissatisfied with this payment, alleging that the land was not worth the money, and that the arrangement was produced by the great influence her guardian had over her, and the confidence reposed in him, and threatened to commence suit, to set aside the conveyance, and for an account of her estate, whereupon, her guardian offered to receive a reconveyance of the land, and to pay up the $1600, provided Gist would settle in trust for his wife, some lands of equal value. Gist acceded to this offer, and it was closed by Gist, on his first conveying to William W. Whitaker, in trust for his wife, the quantity of 750 acres of land, on which he resided, dated on the 6th of February, 1811. In 1821, it appearing probable, that the wife of Gist, would never have children; without consulting the trustee, he and his wife, united in a conveyance of the 750 acres of land, to Jesse Bledsoe, reciting that the conveyance to Whitaker, was not drawn, according to its instruction, as it did not expressly provide that the land should descend to the children of the marriage, or in case there were none went to Gist, and reciting that Bledsoe had stipulated, to furnish sixteen shares of bank stock, for the support of Mrs. Gist, during life, and after her death, this land was to be conveyed by him, to her children; and if there were none, to her husband, or that he, Bledsoe, might become at his election, a purchaser of the land, at the price of five thousand dollars. This conveyance was executed and acknowledged, by the parties, before the clerk of the county court of Bourbon, and was there recorded, where the parties resided, but was never recorded in Logan county, where the land lay, or any of the general recording offices. *2 Ann Gist, the wife, died childless, and Bledsoe not clecting to become a purchaser of this land, conveyed it, by the directions of Gist, to Preston Blair, who, together with H. C. Gist, filed this bill against Whitaker, the trustee in the first conveyance, alleging that the conveyance to him, Whitaker, was inartificially drawn, and had provided for the heirs general, of Ann Gist, and not the children of the marriage, which was intended; and that the word ""heirs," in the deed, ought to be construed, issue of her body, and there were some of the latter character, and that from the whole face of the transaction, it ought to be construed as intending, that the estate, should vest to H. C. Gist, and not the collateral relations of the wife; and he also relies on the conveyances of Gist and wife to Bledsoe, and of Bledsoe to him, as passing all the equity in the estate. He alleges, that Whitaker hesitates to convey the legal estate to him, because others set up claim to it, as heirs of Ann Gist. He prays for a conveyance, and surrender of the estate. Whitaker declares himself ready to convey, as the purposes of the trust are answered, but charges, that the brothers and sisters of Ann Gist set up claim to the land, and caution him not to convey the estate to Gist, or his assignees. He makes his answer, a bill against these collateral relatives of Ann Gist, and also a cross bill against Blair and Gist, and prays that they may be compelled to interplead with each other, for the purpose of determining, to whom the title belongs, and then he will convey the title accordingly. Blair and Gist do not answer this answer, in the nature of a bill of interpleader. The heirs of Ann Gist, answer and insist, that the expressions, "heirs" in the deed, cannot be answered, by construction, to mean children of the marriage only; that the conveyance from Gist to Bledsoe, is not properly executed, and that it is such, as Gist and wife had no right to make, without consulting the trustee, and that they are entitled to the estate, and they shape their answer, in the nature of a cross bill, against Whitaker, the trustee, and pray that he may be compelled to convey to them. To this, he made no reply, and in this situation the cause came on for hearing, and the court below decided that the word "heirs," in the deed, must not be construed to mean issue of the marriage, and that the estate would return to Gist, the grantor, or if this was not correct, the equitable interest, which Ann Gist held, during the marriage, was alienable by her, in conjunction with her husband; and that the disposition which she had made to Bledsoe was a good one, and that the conveyance to him was valid; and the trustee was accordingly directed to convey the estate to Blair. To reverse this decree, the trustee, and heirs of Ann Gist, have prosecuted their writ of error. We can not concur with that court, in supposing, that the word "heirs," as employed in the conveyance from Gist, the trustee, can be construed to mean issue only. We are aware of many cases, where the word "heirs," are thus limited, but these generally, are cases of wills where a greater latitude of construction to effectuate the intention of the testator, is indulged, than can be allowed in deeds. There is no mistake, in drafting this deed, and the presumption, that Gist could not intend to place this estate, in such an attitude, that it might escape from his family, is too weak to overrule the clear expressions of the deed, so often repeated. In the granting part, it expresses, that the testate is conveyed to Whitaker., "in trust for the benefit of said Ann Gist, her heirs or assigns forever." In the habendum and tenendum, it declares, that the estate shall be "retained, for the benefit of the said Ann Gist, her heirs and assigns forever." Whitaker, on his part, covenants, that he will hold the state "in trust for the benefit of the said Ann, and her heirs forver." It is further remarkable, that there is not in the deed, the least intimation given, that the use or profits of this estate, is to be separately applied to Ann Gist, or to the family. The control of the husband over it, is not limited. He resided upon the land at the time, and might continue to do so, and take the profits; nor is there the least restriction in the conveyance, on this dispostion, which the wife or the husband, either jointly or separately might make of the estate, and the conveyance places the estate, in a situation, by no means different from lands, the title of which, in fee simple, might be in the wife, except, that the trustee, and not the wife, held the legal estate. Besides, not only the word "heirs," but also "assigns," are contained in the grant, evidencing its alienable quality. With all these circumstances, attending it, we see no propriety, in construing the word "heirs," to mean issue only. It must have its appropriate and usual signification applied to it. *3 This conclusion, however, as remarked by the court below, can not affect the title of the defendants in error, if Ann Gist united with her husband, could afterwards sell the estate, without uniting the trustee, and has really done so. The very act of constituting a trustee, seems to imply a guardianship, over the rights of the wife, and that he was the depository of the title, for safe keeping, which may seem at first, to negative the idea, of parting with the interest of the wife, without his concurrence. But still, in cases where the wife has had a separate estate settled upon her, to her exclusive use, it has been frequently held, that she could part with it, without the intervention of the trustee. Even in cases, where the deed of settlement, has pointed out particular modes, by which she can part with it, this has not been held to imply a negative on other modes, which she may adopt, and that her right to dispose of it is not restrained unless there are restraining clauses in the deed, prohibiting her disposition thereof. Cases of this kind, in the English chancery, are numerous, and we do not conceive it necessary, to recite or review them; but will refer to the case of Jacques v. the Methodist Episcopal church, III. John. Chy. Rep., 77. In that case, Chancellor Kent, who leaves no subject half investigated, collected and reviewed the whole, with a critical eye, and concludes, that they are too contradictory to be followed, and, therefore, overruled their authority, and concludes, that the wife could dispose of her separate estate, in no other way, than that pointed out in the settlement, and that to permit her to do so, was contrary to the spirit, and intent of the contract, by which the settlement was made. This decree, however, was afterwards reversed, in the high court of errors, and appeals of New York, as will be seen in XVII. John. Rep., 548, and Johnson's general index, to the New York chancery, VII. John. Chy. Rep., 116, where it was held, that the wife could dispose of her separate estate, unless expressly restrained by the deed. The right of authority, is with this decision; but the reason and force of principle involved, is with the chancellor, whose decree was reversed. If then a wife, in case of separate estate, with particular modes of disposition, pointed out, and contain objects of the trust specified, can dispose of it in other modes, and to other objects, it would seem to furnish a strong argument that Ann Gist, by uniting with her husband, and without the trustee, could dispose of this estate, in any legal mode, especially, as there are no particular objects of the trust, pointed out, and no restraint, or alienation. The principle, however, on which the cases referred to, have gone, is that a feme covert, with a separate estate, becomes by contract in equity, a feme sole, and therefore, her acts are obligatory. But the estate in question, is not a separate estate. It is not by the deed, to be held by the trustee, for the separate use, and no modes of alienation, are named, and the effect of it, is to vest the interest in her, as if she had held it before the marriage, with this difference, that only the beneficial interest, without the legal estate, was with her, and her husband. She could therefore convey it, united with her husband, on being privily examined as the law directs, as other lands, unless, that as husband and wife, can not, under our statutes enabling feme coverts to convey, pass an equity only in the wife, on privy examination, and this we are not prepared to admit. If they can convey, when both the equity and legal estate, is vested in the wife, and the husband has the right therein, acquired by the marriage, it would seem to follow, that they can convey an equity only, as the major includes the minor, and the whole, all its parts. To say they can convey such equity, not only conforms to the words of the different statutes, which declare, that all the interest shall pass, but also avoids embarrassing consequences, with regard to equitable estates, held by the wife. We have heretofore decided, that the wife is entitled to dower, in an equity only, and if we should now construe the statutes, so as to prevent her from passing that equity, by uniting with her husband, in a conveyance thereof, as these statutes point out, it would follow, that the right of dower, in such estates, could not be sold during the marriage, which would greatly fetter such estates, and they are numerous, and would destroy the alienable quality of much land, which was an evil, the legislature intended to remedy. We, therefore, conceive that united with her husband, Ann Gist, could part with this entire equity, which she held, having the legal estate only, in the trustee, without his consent; the question then remains, did she do so, by the deed to Bledsoe, acknowledged, and recorded in the county of Bourbon where the parties resided, when the lands lay in Logan. *4 Wife's equity in land may be conveyed by her and husband, during coverture, by privy examination, and recording deed in proper office. If this alienation can be sustained, it must be by the statute of 1810, I. Dig. S. L. 323, and not under any other statute, within the recollection of the court. Here an objection was taken to this title, under which, the defendants in error, claim, by the counsel for the plaintiffs, which was not very confidently relied on, and was treated lightly by the counsel of the defendants, in this court. But it has proved a most formidable obstacle, to the relief granted below, in the minds of this court. It is this, that the bare acknowledgment, and privy examination of the wife, in the county of Bourbon, and recording the deed there, is insufficient to pass the title. To understand this objection, we will observe, that anterior to any legislation on the subject, by the rules of the common law, a feme covert, could not convey her real estate, by deed or by privy examination, and the title must remain in her, during the marriage. To remedy this, and unshackle such estates, and bring them into market, was the design of the legislature, in passing such acts; and while it is conceded, that such estates can be conveyed, under the statutes, it is contended, that to do so, the requisitions of the statutes must be substantially complied with, and whatever the legislature has said shall be done, must be performed, or the title does not pass. By common law, feme covert could not convey her real estate, by deed and privy examination and title must remain in her during marriage. Before the passage of the act of 1810, to which we have alluded, a married woman might, in different modes, be examined, when the estate was in her, and before the clerk of the county, where the land lay, or the clerk of the general court, or court of appeals, she might be privily examined, but there was no authority given to the clerk of any other county, where the land did not lie, to take such privy examination, and if he did so, it was void. It was thought to be convenient, to permit a husband and wife, residing in a county, where the land did not lie, to go before their proper clerk, nearer home, and there have the examination taken, and acknowledgment made, and to get it certified, to the proper recording officer; to allow this, was the object of the act, under which this deed was attempted. But in permitting this, it was competent for the legislature to point out the particular acts and requisites, that should be performed, before title should pass. This they have done, and it will be seen, that the parties in this instance, did not comply with them. The act reads thus: "And if the due acknowledgment, or privy examination of the wife, of the person making the deed, shall have been taken by the court or clerk, receiving the acknowledgment, and proof of the deed, as the case may be, and that being also duly certified with the deed, and recorded, shall transfer such wife's estate, or dower, in such land, as fully, as if the examination, had been made by the court or clerk, in whose office, the deed shall be recorded." *5 The words "and recorded," in this provision, both from what precedes, and what follows, evidently means, the recording in the office; where the land lies, or in one of the general recording offices. It is therefore evident, that the legislature has made the recording the deed, in the proper office, and that in the time prescribed by law, one of the essential requisites, to passing the estate. The acknowledgment, and privy examination, is not enough, the recording must follow. Many instances might be produced, of a similar effect being given to statutes, requiring recording to be performed, as part of the acts necessary to be done. Thus the first statute of this country, allowing emancipation, directed that deeds of emancipation, should not only be proved or acknowledged, but also recorded, and then the slave should be free, and it has been held, that recording was essential to the title to freedom. The act directing sheriffs, to convey lands, sold under execution, is expressed in like manner, and a like construction has been given to it, to pass the title. The British statutes, directed, that deeds to the assignees of a bankrupt, should be proved or acknowledged and recorded, and then the title should pass, and it has been held, that no title passed, without the recording. If the legislature, had put the stress of passing the title of the wife, upon the acknowledgment, or privy examination alone, we would have been able to sustain this deed. But this is not the case; recording also, in the proper office, is added, and with reluctance, we are compelled to say, that by the words of the statute, and force of authority, the deed did not pass the title of the wife. We take no exception to the acknowledgment, or privy examination, certified by the clerk of Bourbon. This appears to have been done in due form of law. He has also recorded the deed. But this was not only useless, and unnecessary, but was without the pale of his authority. It is the want of recording in proper time, in the county of Logan, or in the office of the general court, which destroys the effect of the deed, as to the wife, and as to the title of the husband; as she died without a child born, it ceased with her existence, and the land passed, by the terms of the deed itself, as well as the law of the land, to her heirs at law. Deed, conveying wife's equity in her real estate, during coverture, must be ?? ec??rdek in the time, and in proper office; otherwise, of no effect. It follows, that the decree must be reversed, and the original bill be dismissed with costs, and the cross bill, of the heirs at law, must prevail, and they must have a decree, that the legal estate be released to them, by the trustee, but without costs. The trustee prayed that the complainant below, might be compelled to interplead. But the attempt is a lame one, to an interpleader. Instead of either the original complainants, or the heirs at law, becoming complainants, and the other side respondents, the heirs only made their answer a cross bill, against the trustee. But still, as the original complainants, are not and the heirs are entitled to the estate, a decree on the answer of the latter, in nature of a cross bill, can be entered, in their favor, and the controversy ended; especially, as the original complainants, can have no claim, but what can be well decided between them and the trustee. *6 Decree reversed, with costs, and cause remanded for a decree, in conformity with this opinion. Barry and Depew, for plaintiffs; Crittenden, for defendants. NOTE Chief Justice Bibb did not sit in this case. JANUARY 12, 1830. The above opinion was suspended, and so remained, until the following confirmatory decision was pronounced. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTSON delivered the opinion of the Court. We concur with our predecessors, in the opinion, that the deed of trust did not vest "a separate estate," in Mrs. Gist. We concur, also, in the opinion, that the recording of the deed was necessary, to pass the interest of the wife. See the act of 1748, sections 7-8. I. Dig. 305; and the act of 1810, Ib. 522. If the estate be not a separate estate in the wife, she must be considered, in relation to this, as well as other rights, as a feme covert; and as such, no interest which she held in land, could be transferred, unless her prior acknowledgment had been recorded in proper time. Nor could her deed, for such interest, without the recording of her acknowledgment, vest any interest whatever. Consequently, the chancellor could not enforce the contract. Such seems to us to be the only allowable or consistent construction of the legislative enactments, in reference to this subject. Deed of feme covert, will pass no interest in her land, except in her separate estate, unless her privy acknowledgment is recorded in proper time. Nor will chancellor otherwise enforce contract. All the reasons which require the privy examination of the wife, and the registration of it, in other cases, apply with equal emphasis, to such a case as this. She is supposed to be under the dominion of her husband; and one object of the conveyance in trust for her use, and perhaps the only object, was to prevent the exercise of his influence, so as to divest her of the benefits, secured to her by the deed. The deed has not vested her with any control over the legal title; nor prescribed any mode, for alienating her interest. And we should, therefore, feel some doubt, whether she could, without the concurrence of her trustee, divest herself, whilst covert of her interest, further than that which she had in the profits, during coverture. It was evidently the object of the deed, to prevent any alienation by her, of the fee, during coverture, without the assent of the trustee. We are aware, that the weight of authority in England, inclines in favor of her power, when it is not expressly interdicted. But we are not sure that the statutes of this state, have overruled the British doctrine. This is a question worthy of grave consideration. It results, therefore, that the only doubt we have, is, whether our predecessors did not go too far, when they decided that the interest of Mrs. Gist was alienable, without the co-operation of her trustee; and we make the suggestion only to prevent the question from being concluded, as it would be by our silence on that point. *7 Quare. Land conveyed in trust, for benefit of feme covert and her heirs, can she and husband, without concurrence of trustee, alien her equitable interest. But, our concurrence in so much of the opinion, as denies the right of Blair and Gist, renders an examination of the doubtful proposition unnecessary. If her interest be alienable, by herself and husband alone, Mrs. Gist's acknowledgment must be recorded, before the deed can have any effect against her, or her heirs. If it be not alienable without the concurrence of her trustee, then it is not material, whether, if it had been alienable, any available right, could have been transferred by the deed, without recording her acknowledgment. Wherefore, the judgment must remain unaltered. Ky.App. 1827. Whitaker v. Blair 3 J.J.Marsh. 236, 26 Ky. 236, 1830 WL 2096 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
