(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 612,  10 Ky. 612 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1187 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Patrick v. Matthew Conrad. Oct. 3, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 218(3) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k218 Hearing and Determination on Demurrer 302k218(3) k. Findings, Decision, Order, or Judgment. Most  Cited Cases On overruling a plaintiff's demurrer, judgment should be entered for the defendant, unless the plaintiff tenders a valid replication and asks leave to withdraw the demurrer. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This case was therefore decided by this court. The defendant below had filed a plea, to which the plaintiff demurred, and the court below had sustained that demurrer and decided the plea insufficient, and rendered judgment for the plaintiff. The judgment was reversed and the plea decided to be good, and this court remanded the cause for new proceedings. The opinion of this court, at one term, was entered of record in the court below, and no other proceedings were had until the ensuing term, when there is an entry to this effect: "This day came the parties by their attorneys, and the plaintiff filed a replication to the defendant's second plea herein pleaded," &. Here follows a jury and judgment for the plaintiff, to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted. The correct mode of proceeding in the court below, on the return of the former opinion of this court, was to have entered a peremptory judgment on the demurrer for the defendant, unless the plaintiff had tender a valid replication and asked leave to withdraw the demurrer, and file the replication. This, however, is not done, but the entry is made, of filing the replication only. Whatever may be the law with regard to both a plea and demurrer to the same dclaration at the same time, it does not extend to any other part of the pleadings. As to them, issue in law ought to be withdrawn before the issue, in fact, is made up, to make the record speak the faithful and complete history of the cause, and not present the absurdity of both admitting and denying, or avoiding the same facts at the same moment. We do not say that the rigid application of this rule, to this record, ought to reverse the judgment; for a liberal construction placed upon it might induce us to say that the filing of the replication upon it was a virtual withdrawal or abandonment of the demurrer, if in fact any replication existed. But here there is no replication appears, and there is nothing to account for its absence, and there is no way of telling what issue was tried. The case then presents a valid plea in bar, unanswered by the plaintiff below, and yet a judgment against the defendant, without any issue found answering his plea with a negative or presenting an avoidance of its effect. We can not, therefore, according to well settled principles, sustain the judgment, and it must be reversed with costs and the cause remanded, with directions to the court below to proceed on to execute the former opinion of this court, unless the plaintiff below shall present a valid replication and obtain leave to withdraw their demurrer, and form a good issue. *2 On overruling a plaintiff's demurrer, judgment should be entered for defendant, unless plaintiff withdraws the demurrer and files a valid replication. Turner & Hardin, for plaintiff; Talbott & Bibb, contra. Ky.App. 1821. Patrick v. Conrad 3 A.K.Marsh. 612, 10 Ky. 612, 1821 WL 1187 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
