(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 36,  21 Ky. 36 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1497 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Taylor's Admr's v. James and Thomas Reed. May 31, 1827. *1 Contracts. Bank Notes. Tender. Equity. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 405 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k405 k. Right to Relief in General. Most Cited  Cases Where the plaintiff, in a judgment at law upon an obligation for money given on a contract for bank notes, enters at the foot of the judgment that he will receive the notes, and so indorses the execution, the defendant has no grounds for a bill in equity. Tender 374 k 22 374 Tender 374k22 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases Where a party pleads a tender in equity, he will be held to as great strictness as he would be held at law. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the facts. In the month of October, 1821, the defendant in error purchased of the plaintiffs a quantity of property sold at public auction, by said plaintiffs, as administrators of David Taylor, deceased, and executed his note for the amount, with security. On the day this note became due he tendered the amount of it in paper, on the bank of the commonwealth, alleging that the contract was made for that kind of currency. The plaintiffs in error declined, or refused, to receive the amount, alleging that they were acting for orphans, and the contract was not for bank paper. Sometime afterwards the plaintiffs agreed to receive bank paper and demanded it of the defendant, who failed to pay it alleging that he had it not, but would shortly get it, but on his failing to do so, the plaintiff in error brought suit on the note, and recovered judgment and added thereto an agreement on record, to receive paper on the bank of the commonwealth, or bank of Kentucky, for the full amount. Judgment at law, executions, &c. Execution issued, endorsed accordingly, and the debt was replevied for three months. The defendant in error then filed this bill to scale the demand one half, alleging that the contract was for paper, and that the note was drawn simply for dollars; and that when the note became due, and the tender was made, the exchange between gold and silver coin and the bank paper, was at the rate of two of the latter for one of the former. Bill. The plaintiffs in error answered, admitting that the contract was for bank paper and relying upon their subsequent offer to receive the paper, and a demand of it; their entry on record, and indorsement of their willingness to receive it, that they are still willing but can not get the paper, and insist that the complainant ought to be compelled to bring the money into court, which he had failed to do. Answer. The court below granted an injunction to one-half the principal, and all the interest and costs at law, and gave costs in equity; to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted. *2 Decree of the circuit court. We can not perceive any equity in the complainant's case. His bill is a mere struggle to get at the very equity which was offered to him; or it is rather an attempt to get clear of the specific performance of the contract, and bind the defendants to take one-half the demand in specie, without costs or interest, and thus to commute the real contract for that sum, and avoid the appreciation of the paper. Where the plaintiff in a judgment at law recovered on an obligation for money, given on a contract for bank notes, enters at the foot of the judgment he will receive the bank notes, and so endorses the execution, the defendant has no grounds for a bill in equity. If he pretends to avail himself of the plea of tender in equity, because he could not make it at law, he ought to be held to as great strictness, as he would be held to at law. We need not here inquire whether he would, or would not, be bound in a court of law, to bring the bank paper into court. For if he would, he must do so in equity, and has failed, and his tender is for that cause a bad one. If he would not, then the bank notes, when tendered, like other cumbrous commodities, would become the proper goods and chattels of the debtor, and the tender need not be pleaded with a constant readiness, and of course, he has been guilty of using and disposing of so much bank paper belonging to the defendants in error, and must be bound to account for its present value, with damages for its conversion and detention, and that is all the proceedings at law attempt to charge him with; and he is, therefore, on either ground, entitled to no relief. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions there to dissolve the injunction, and dismiss the bill with costs and damages. Turner and Breck, for plaintiff; Caperton, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Taylor's Adm'rs v. Reed 5 T.B.Mon. 36, 21 Ky. 36, 1827 WL 1497 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
