(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 212,  21 Ky. 212 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1535 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robinson, &c. v. Neal, &c. Jun. 19, 1827. *1 Surveys. Compact with Virginia. Husband and Wife. Limitation. Witnesses. Misnomer. Parties. APPEAL FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(4) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(4) k. Warrant and Survey. Most Cited  Cases The act of 1785 allowed to an infant three years after attaining full age to survey entries. Witnesses 410 k 294 410 Witnesses 410III Examination 410III(D) Privilege of Witness 410k294 k. Answer Tending to Subject Witness to Civil Action  or Pecuniary Loss. Most Cited Cases The fact that a witness was interested in favor of the plaintiff's recovery, and expected to get the benefit of the recovery, and that to compel him to testify would be to compel him to testify against his own interests, did not give him the right to refuse, as only the danger of a penal proceeding would give him that right. Abatement and Revival 2 k 29 2 Abatement and Revival 2III Defects and Objections as to Parties and Proceedings 2k29 k. Misnomer or Misdescription of Party. Most Cited Cases The misnomer of one through whom the plaintiff claims, or whose name is necessarily used in setting out his cause of action, cannot be pleaded in abatement, but is fatal on the evidence. Adverse Possession 20 k 14 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(B) Actual Possession 20k14 k. Necessity. Most Cited Cases Adverse Possession 20 k 68 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(F) Hostile Character of Possession 20k68 k. Necessity of Claim or Color of Title. Most Cited  Cases To constitute a bar under the seven-years limitation law of Kentucky, the defendant must show a connected title in law or equity with the adverse claim, more than seven years before suit, with an actual occupancy. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of ejectment, and a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, to reverse which this appeal is prosecuted. Lessors title--on an entry in 1780, surveyed in 1799, the grant in 1806. The title given in evidence by the lessors of the plaintiff, was a patent from the Commonwealth to Phebe Neal, late Phebe Larue, dated in 1806; at which time the said Phebe was a feme covert, and still so remains. This the plaintiff relied on as supporting the demise of the said Phebe Neal and her husband, there being several other demises laid in the declaration from others, which there was no evidence to support. The survey on which this patent emanated was made in 1799, on an entry made on pre-emption warrant, entered June 14th, 1780 Phebe Larue was married in 1795, being then about seventeen or eighteen years old. *2 The defendant's counsel moved the court to instruct the jury, that the survey having been made and the patent issued thereon, according to the acts of the state of Kentucky, extending the time for making surveys, the patent was void because it had issued contrary to the compact with the state of Virginia. Instructions moved in the circuit court, that plaintiff's grant was void, overruled. It would be difficult to sustain this application in a court of law, and thus permit the defendants to travel behind and out of the plaintiff's grant, to invalidate it, which in general can not be done, as held by this court in the case of  Bledsoe's devisees v. Wells, 4 Bibb, 329. Objections to grant, because the survey was not in time. But if this could be done, the proof conduces to show that the survey was made within three years after Mrs. Neal arrived at the age of twenty-one years, which would bring her case within the exceptions of the Virginia statute, on the subject of surveys, passed in 1785. Act of 1785 allowed to an infant three years after attaining full age to survey entries. In addition to this, if the state of Kentucky, at this day, was to permit all the unsurveyed entries, made under the land laws of Virginia, and now forfeited because not surveyed in time, to be now surveyed on the vacant lands of the state, and carried into grant, it would be a strange supposition, that the compact with Virginia forbade it. That instrument does not prevent the state of Kentucky from appropriating her vacant lands as she may please; and there is nothing in this record which shows that this land was appropriated previous to the date of this grant. The court below, therefore, did right in refusing this instruction. Compact with Virginia, does not prohibit Kentucky from extending the time for surveying entries on vacant land even now. The next instructions moved for and overruled, were, that the lessors of the plaintiff were not entitled to the benefit of the exceptions contained in the statute of limitations, so as to save their right of entry; or if the female lessor, was within these exceptions, her husband was not, and that as the right of entry was exclusively in him, he was barred. Instruction moved on the limitation. Whether the husband so possesses the exclusive right of entry that he may be barred, so that the land can not be recovered in his lifetime, and can only be recovered after his death, when the right returns to the wife, in favor of whom alone, the exception is made, is a question of some nicety in the construction of our statutes of limitation, and has not, so far as we know, undergone an express decision. Query--may the husband and wife maintain an ejectment after an adversary possession of twenty years of their coverture? But we ought not to decide it now; for the question is not presented. The tenants here had been in possession more than twenty years before this action was brought; but still, for a great part of that time the land belonged to the Commonwealth, whose right of entry could not be tolled until 1806, and it was not twenty years from the emanation of the patent till the commencement of the suit, so that the defendants could not avail themselves of the bar of 20 years as fixed by the ancient statutes. See  Chiles v. Calk, 4 Bibb, 554. *3 Limitation does not commence running until the date of the plaintiff's grant. Nor have they brought themselves within the provisions of the act of 1809, which fixes the bar, in some cases therein specified, to seven years. They have showed a survey far older in date, than seven years, and that they claimed the land under a writing from Alexander and William Tilford, more than seven years before suit was brought; but there is a total absence of proof that the Messrs. Tilfords had any connexion with the survey set up till within seven years before the suit was brought; and to avail himself of this act, a defendant must show a connected title in law or equity, with an adverse interfering claim, more than seven years before suit brought, coupled with an actual occupancy. To constitute a bar, under the 7 years' limitation law, defendant must shew a connected title in law or equity, with the adverse claim, more than seven years before suit, with an actual occupancy. The last question we shall notice, arises from the rejection of a witness by the court below, when offered by the defendants to depose on the trial. There was a demise in the declaration, to the fictitious lessee, by Elisha Cole. The witness offered stating that he was interested in favor of the plaintiff's recovery, and expected to get the benefit of the recovery, if had, and that it would be compelling him to depose against his interest, if compelled to depose at all; that he was the person intended to be described in the declaration, as a lessor by the name of Elisha Cole; but that his name was not Elisha, but Elijah Cole, and that he knew of no person by the name of Elisha Cole. The court refused to permit him to be sworn in chief, to which the defendants excepted. Elijah Cole, a lessor in one of the demises, by the name of Elisha, offered as a witness by the defendant, and objects to give evidence because against himself. That this witness could not be excused on the score of interest in the controversy is well settled. It takes an interest which, if he should depose, would subject him to penal proceedings, to excuse a witness, as held by this court in the case of  Gorham v. Carrol, 3 Litt. Rep. 221. Subjecting the witness to a loss by civil suit, is not sufficient to excuse him from telling the truth. The truth in our legal controversies is of too great importance in society to permit a witness to keep it concealed, because he has by his own act, made it his pecuniary interest to keep it out of sight. No interest of a witness can excuse him from giving testimony, except the danger of a penal proceeding against him if he should depose. The question remains, can he be excused as a party? We concede that a party can not generally be compelled to become a witness against himself in a court of common law, and that a lessor of the plaintiff in an ejectment, must be considered as the real party in an ejectment. Lessors of the plaintiff are the real parties to the action, and no one of them can be compelled by defendant to give evidence though no title had been shewn in him. *4 Was this witness such a lessor, or in other words, would proving a title in Elijah Cole, have supported this demise by Elisha Cole, and have enabled the witness to recover? If it would not, then he is not entitled to the privilege of a party, and ought to be compelled to depose. Whether this demise might not, before the trial have been changed from Elisha to Elijah Cole, on proper proof of a mistake in drafting the declaration, we need not inquire; for this was not done, and we must take the declaration as it is. The names are distinct in letters, sound in meaning, and of course, will each designate a different person. If the witness is only misnamed in a declaration, we are aware that a misnomer must generally, be taken advantage of by a plea in abatement. But an ejectment is an action which seldom admits of such pleas, and the matter of such plea must therefore be relied on, under the general issue. Even in actions where pleas in abatement are admissible, such defects in pleading may be taken advantage of under the general issue. Elijah Cole compelled by defendant to give evidence in an ejectment on the demise of Elisha Cole, who witness deposed was intended for himself. For in an action of assumpsit on a bill of exchange, charged in the declaration to be drawn by Elisha Brown, proof that the bill produced, signed ""E. Brown," was in the hand writing of Elijah Brown, was held not to support the action or to be admissible evidence for that purpose, 3 Starkie Evi. 1580, in note. Proof of title, therefore, in Elijah Cole was inadmissible to support this declaration, and the witness can not be held as a legal party to the suit, and ought not, therefore, to have been excused from deposing in favor of the party against whom he was interested. Misnomer of one through whom plaintiff claims or whose name occurs in setting out his cause of action can not be pleaded in abatement, but is fatal on the evidence. The judgment must therefore be reversed, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Proof of title in Elijah not admissible on a demise by Elisha. Chief Justice Bibb, did not sit in this cause. Crittenden, Denny and Talbot, for plaintiffs; Haggin, Loughborough and Wickliffe, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Robinson v. Neal 5 T.B.Mon. 212, 21 Ky. 212, 1827 WL 1535 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
