(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 62,  19 Ky. 62 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1194 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Scott v. Cleveland. Nov. 15, 1825. *1 Judgments of Sister States. Justices of the Peace. Records. Assignor and Assignee. Assignments. Pleading. Evidence. Practice. ERROR TO THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT; WILLIAM L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 822(3) 228 Judgment 228XVII Foreign Judgments 228k814 Judgments of State Courts 228k822 Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228k822(3) k. Matters Concluded. Most Cited  Cases An exemplification of a judgment of another state for the defendant, in a suit by an assignee against the obligor of a note, on a plea of the statute of limitations, is sufficient, without producing the statute, in an action by the assignee against the assignor. Evidence 157 k 347 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k346 Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of Other  States 157k347 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases An exemplification of the record of a judgment of a justice of the peace of a sister state, certified according to the act of congress, is competent evidence in Kentucky. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement. This was an action of assumpsit, brought by the plaintiff in the court below, to obtain his recourse against the defendant, on a note assigned to him by the defendant, executed by a person residing in Indiana, the recovery of which had been defeated by the maker of the note pleading the statute of limitations of that state,??to the demand,??before a justice of the peace. These facts were stated in the declaration, and the defendant below pleaded non assumpsit. On the trial the plaintiff gave in evidence the exemplification of the record of a justice of the peace in Indiana, in which was contained a judgment against the note, on the plea of a statute of limitations, including with the record a copy of the note, with its assignment, by the defendant below to the plaintiff. To the admission of this evidence both as improper and insufficient, the defendant below objected, and was overruled, and judgment having been rendered against him he has brought the case to this court by writ of error, relying on the same question here. Exemplification of the record of a judgment of a justice of the peace of a sister state, certified according to the act of Congress is competent. We perceive no objection to the admission of this record of the justice of the peace. It was a judicial proceeding of a functionary of a sister state, and was authenticated as the act of Congress requires, and as such no objection exists as to its admission. An exemplification of a judgment for defendant, in a suit by assignee against obligor, on a plea of a statute of limitations, is sufficient in the action of assignee against the assignor. It is contended that it was wholly insufficient, unless the statute of limitation of that state had been produced, which warranted the judgment against the note. This certainly could not be necessary. *2 If, to support the judgment of a court of a sister state, the law on which it is based must be produced, it would bring with the record, in many instances, both the statutory code, and the common law of the state in which it was rendered, and thus subject the party using it to great expense, and introduce a practice highly inconvenient. It is not necessary in such case for plaintiff to produce or prove the statute of the sister state___ For___ And after such laws were produced they must be entirely useless, unless the court here was authorized to look into these laws, and thereby re-try the merits, and condemn the errors of the tribunal which rendered the judgment, and thus the constitution of the United States would be defeated, by inquiring into, and destroying the faith and credit which must be attached to such records, which the constitution intended to prevent. If it did appear there was no such statute or law of limitation, the effect of the judgment would not be different. Besides if the law was produced, or it should appear there was no such law, it would not follow that the plaintiff below in this action must lose his demand, because he did not contest and overthrow the error of the justice of the peace of Indiana. The law requires the assignee to use due diligence in legal investigation and execution, by applying to the proper legal authority. And it cannot be supposed that he runs the risk of judicial errors, and must cause the tribunal to which he applies to decide rightly before he can have his recourse. A decision by a competent tribunal, fairly obtained against the note, is all an assignee can be bound to obtain, whether it be or be not erroneous. Decision by a competent tribunal, fairly obtained against the note, whether erroneous or not, entitles the assignee to his recourse. It is contended that the record in this case proves collusion between the assignee and payee of the note. We conceive not. It is true the parties appeared before the justice and waived process, and submitted the demand to the determination of the justice. We are aware of no law which prevents such proceedings, nor do we perceive the irresistible inference of collusion resulting from it. Besides the justice states, that they appeared and submitted the case according to a statute of that state. That defendant in such case appeared to the action without process is no objection. It is insisted that the note itself was not produced, but only the copy with the record was produced, and that no proof was made of the assignment of the note by the plaintiff in error. The decisions of this court in the cases of Dodge, &c. v. Bank of Kentucky, 2 Marsh. 610; and  McGee v. Doniphan, 2 Litt. Rep. 139. show that such proof was unnecessary, unless a plea denying the assignment, supported by an affidavit had been filed. In an action by assignee against assignor, it is not necessary to produce the note, unless its assignment be denied by plea on oath. *3 The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Barry, for plaintiff in error. Ky.App. 1825. Scott v. Cleveland 3 T.B.Mon. 62, 19 Ky. 62, 1825 WL 1194 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
