(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 77,  17 Ky. 77 (Ky.),  1824 WL 2285 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bodley and Poage v. Craig. Oct. 11, 1824. *1 Evidence, Locators, Customs. ERROR TO THE BATH CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. John Craig exhibited his bill, claiming one-third of two entries and patents; one entered in the name of John Tay??lor, of three thousand acres; the other in the name of William Nelson, for fifteen hundred acres. The claim set up was for a locator's interest of one-third, and is based on a writing between Simon Kenton and Ambrose Walden, to this effect: "Articles of agreement made and done this first day of May, 1780, between Simon Kenton, of Kentucky, of the one part, and Ambrose Walden, of Caroline county, Virginia, witnesseth: That the said Simon Kenton doth bind himself to locate ten thousand acres for the said Ambrose Walden, in the district of Kentucky, in consideration of which, the said Ambrose Walden doth bind himself, his heirs and assigns to convey a proper deed of one-third of the said ten thousand, so located, unto the aforesaid Simon Kenton, respect being had to quality and other local advantages; and lastly, both parties bind themselves to the performance of the premises, under the penalty of fifty thousand pounds." The written contract. This article was signed both by Walden and Kenton, and assigned away by the latter, and after it passed through several hands, it came to the complainant. The bill was filed against Taylor and Nelson's heirs, and Bodley, Poage and others, who had contracted to purchase from them, but had received no conveyances; and it also sets up and relies on the custom of the country, at that time, as binding the holders of warrants to give that quantity to the locator; and it avers that these entries were part of the ten thousand acres mentioned in the contract aforesaid, the holders of the warrants having sent them to this country to be located by Walden, who had employed Kenton to locate. The bill. The answers place the defense on various grounds, and deny that these warrants were part of the ten thousand acres, or had any connection with the contract, and if they had, insist that Walden had no authority to make such disposition of the warrants, from the holders thereof. Taylor admits that he sent his warrant by Walden to this country, who undertook to locate it himself, for a pecuniary consideration, and was furnished with part; that Walden returned, and stated that he had employed Kenton to locate, to whom he had often written and sent money, but received no answer. He denies that he ever knew or heard of the contract set up in the bill, for twenty years after its date. The answers. The court below decreed a conveyance of one-third of each tract, to reverse which, this writ of error issued. The decree of the circuit court. There is proof that Simon Kenton attended and directed the surveying of these claims, and he swears that he made the locations, and that they were part of the ten thousand acres included in Walden's contract. *2 If the contract in this instance, which in its terms applies to Walden's own lands, can be so construed as to admit the parol proof, of these entries being part, (of which there is some doubt), still there is a defect, both in the allegations of the bill, and the proof, which is insuperable. It is not shown that Walden had any anthority from the holders of these warrants, to dispose of them in this manner, or that the holders of them ever ratified this contract. Of course, the contract can not be made the base of a decree; but Walden must remain responsible, and Kenton or his assignee, be left to his remady at law thereon. Query as to the parol evidence. In a bill for one third of the land as the locator's part, on the obligation of a person employed by the owner of the warrants to locate them to, to a third person, who made the location, it is necessary to aver and prove that the owner authorized or ratified the contract. Nor can the decree be sustained on the fact, that Kenton did locate, and that the custom of the country bound the holders of the warrants to give a certain proportion of the land; for whatever may be the influence of custom upon the law-merchant, and upon other questions of law, we are aware of no principle, which would make a custom like this, strong enough to shape itself into a contract which a court of equity ought to enforce, or to compel men, without their knowledge or consent, thus to part with a portion of their real estate. The custom of the country does not make out the case. The decree can not, therefore, be sustained, but must be reversed with costs, and directions to the court below, to dismiss the bill with costs. Haggin, for plaintiffs. Ky.App. 1824. Bodley v. Craig 1 T.B.Mon. 77, 17 Ky. 77, 1824 WL 2285 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
