(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 270,  19 Ky. 270 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1292 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Terry v. Bleight, &c. Oct. 5, 1826. *1 Sales for Direct Taxes. Laws U. States. Constitutional Law. Supreme Court. Sheriffs' Sales. Statutes. Practice. Error. APPEAL FROM THE HARDIN CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 259 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(E) Presumption of Validity 161k259 k. In general. Most Cited Cases The presumption is in favor of the regularity of a sheriff's sale. Execution 161 k 260 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchaser 161k260 k. Nature and effect of transfer in general. Most  Cited Cases A party claiming title to land under a sheriff's sale ought to show, not only the sheriff's deed, but the judgment and execution also. Taxation 371 k 3136 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(N) Tax Titles 371III(N)2 Tax Deeds 371k3133 Effect as to  Title 371k3136 k. Evidence of title dependent on preliminary  or supplementary proof. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 371k789(3)) A tax deed is not evidence of title, without affirmative proof that all the requirements of the law, from the listing of the property to the execution of the deed, have been strictly complied with. Appeal and Error 30 k 840(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(A) Scope, Standards, and Extent, in General 30k838 Questions Considered 30k840 Review of Specific Questions and Particular  Decisions 30k840(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Where a bill is dismissed on appeal, the court will not consider the merits of a cross-bill dismissed in the court below, of which dismissal the defendant in the court below does not complain. Evidence 157 k 83(1) 157 Evidence 157II Presumptions 157k83 Official Proceedings and Acts 157k83(1) k. In general. Most Cited Cases It is presumed that an officer does his duty, and that his proceedings are regular. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a bill in chancery, filed by Terry against Bleight and his assignees, to rescind a contract for the sale of 200 acres of land to the former, by the latter. Bill for a rescission of a contract for land. Bleight had executed his bond for the conveyance, by a quit claim deed, when the last payment of the purchase money was paid, and Terry had given his promissory notes, for several instalments, some of which Bleight had assigned away, and the assignees sued Terry and recovered judgments, which were enjoined by the bill. The defendants all answered, and made their answers operate as cross bills against each other. Contract, &c. The grounds of equity set up to rescind the contract, are that the claim of Bleight, which he had sold and stipulated to convey, had been, after his sale to the complainant, twice sold for the direct taxes due to the United States, and once by the sheriff, under an execution against Bleight for costs. *2 Grounds for rescission. Bleight in his answer, admits that he is informed that such sales had taken place, but has no personal knowledge of either; he contests the legality of all of them, and particularly charges that the sale under execution was fraudulent, and by collusion between the sheriff, the plaintiff in the execution and the purchaser, and requires strict proof of everything which is to affect his interest. Bleight's answer. On final hearing the court below dissolved the injunction with damages, and dismissed the bill with costs, to reverse which, the plaintiff below has prosecuted this appeal. Decree of the circuit court. As to the sales for direct taxes, there is no evidence filed in the cause, whereby it can be seen, whether they were duly and properly made. The supreme court of the United States have held such sales to great strictness. The onus probandi lies on him who relies on them. Nothing is presumed in favor of the organs of the law who have conducted them; but to sustain them, it must be shown that all the requisites of the law have been complied with, or the sale passes no title. To maintain the title under the sale of land for the direct tax of the United States, the purchaser must shew that all the requisites of the law have been complied with. Whether this rigid treatment of such sales can be maintained on principle we need not now inquire. For it is adopted by the judiciary of the United States, in giving effect and operation to the laws of that government, and we do not feel disposed to give to the acts of Congress, and these sales made in pursuance thereof, a greater effect than the functionaries of the nation have done, and thus drive our citizens into the Federal Court, to be relieved from sales held void by those courts, but sustained in our own. Decisions of the supreme court, in giving effect and operation to the laws of the U. States, are on such subjects, authority in this court. In giving effect to sales made by operation of the laws of this State, this court has adopted a different rule. In the case of the sales of land under execution and for taxes, we presume the law has been complied with by the executive officers till the contrary appears; but these cases can not form a precedent for construing an act of Congress, and effectuating a sale made in pursuance thereof, which has already been construed and settled by the judicial tribunals of the government which has adopted the law. In sales of land under the state revenue laws, and under execution, the officers are presumed to have done their duty, till the contrary is proved. As the complainant, therefore, in this case, has not produced the official evidence of the sales for taxes, and has not shown that one requisite has been complied with in making these sales, we can not sustain them as of any validity, or admit that the fact of their existence can be of any aid to him, in getting clear of a contract for the same land. *3 No proof being adduced, sale for the direct tax disregarded. The sale under execution only remains. He has produced a conveyance from the sheriff, and an execution under which the sale purports to have been made, but has produced no judgment. As the Acts of this State, permitting lands to be sold for the payment of debts, only tolerate the sales to be made in satisfaction of judgments, the judgment is a necessary muniment of the title, and it has always been held by this court, that the production of the judgment is indispensable. The court, therefore, did not err in refusing the complainant below any relief. To maintain a sale for land under execution, the judgment must be produced. Bleight, in his answer in the nature of a cross bill, made the complainant a defendant, and set up two other notes held for the last installments, and prayed a decree for the amount, and that it might be charged on the land, and the land be sold in satisfaction, in pursuance of the lien which he held as vendor, without any other security. This cross bill was dismissed by the court below, and it has been suggested by the counsel for Bleight, that this is a remaining question in the cause to be decided by this court. It must have escaped the attention of the counsel that Bleight has not appealed, or prosecuted any writ of error, or made any assignment of errors complaining of any injustice done him by this decision. And while he does not complain, we ought not to consider the merits of the decree dismissing the complaint in his answer in the nature of a cross bill. On an appeal dismissing the bill, this court can not revise the decree dismissing the cross bill, unless the complainant therein become actor here also, by appeal or writ of error, and assigns errors on his part. The decree of the court below must be affirmed, with costs and damages on the damages given below. Damages. Hardin, for appellant; Darby, for appellees. Ky.App. 1826. Terry v. Bleight 3 T.B.Mon. 270, 19 Ky. 270, 1826 WL 1292 (Ky.), 16 Am.Dec. 101 END OF DOCUMENT
