(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 113,  22 Ky. 113 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1642 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gentry v. Barnett, Oct. 24, 1827. *1 Pleadings. Slaves. Bonds in Actions of Replevin. Performance of Conditions. Liability of Wrong-doers. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Bonds 58 k 123 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k123 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k126) Pleading 302 k 180(2) 302 Pleading 302IV Replication or Reply and Subsequent Pleadings 302k180 Departure from Declaration or Complaint 302k180(2) k. Actions Ex Contractu. Most Cited  Cases When breaches are assigned in the declaration, and the plaintiff has been defeated by the defendant's pleadings, he cannot afterwards assign new breaches in the replication. Slaves 356 k 5 356 Slaves 356k4 Property in Slaves 356k5 k. Rights and Powers of Owners. Most Cited Cases A party wrongfully possessed of slaves after a judgment for their return is answerable for their value if they die on his hands. Appeal and Error 30 k 151(5) 30 Appeal and Error 30IV Right of Review 30IV(A) Persons Entitled 30k151 Parties or Persons Injured or Aggrieved 30k151(5) k. Prevailing Parties. Most Cited  Cases A party succeeding upon a minor point, but failing in the main object of his suit, may bring error to reverse the judgment, though in his favor. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. James H. and David Gentry took four slaves from the possession of William Barnett, who, to regain possession thereof, issued his writ of replevin, and gave Thomas C. Howard as his security, in a bond conditioned to perform the judgment of the court in the action of replevin. Slaves taken; regained by replevin; judgment for a return, and suit on the replevin bond. Finally, in the action, judgment was rendered for the return of the slaves to the Gentries. They then brought this action on the bond, in which they aver that one of the female slaves, (Cecily), had pending the writ of replevin, a child born, of the value of $500 dollars, and that Barnett did not perform the judgment of the court in restoring the said female slave and her child, and this is the only breach assigned. Breach assigned. The defendants below pleaded, in substance, "that since the rendition of the judgment in the action of replevin, they paid to the now plaintiffs, the cost awarded by said judgment, and also delivered up to said plaintiffs, all the slaves in the declaration mentioned, except the slave Cecily; and as to so much of the action as was brought for the slave Cecily, the plaintiffs ought not to have their action, because that said slave Cecily departed this life without the fault of the defendants, before the judgment in the action of replevin, by reason of which, it became impossible to restore her." *2 Plea. To so much of this plea as alleged the payment of costs, and restoration of the other slaves, the plaintiffs replied, alleging that defendants had not paid the costs, and concluded to the country. Replication to part of the plea, and demurrer to the remainder, and joinders. To so much of the plea as alleged the death of Cecily, as an excuse for not returning her, the plaintiff's demurred, and the defendants joined in demurrer. The court sustained the plea, as to so much of the plaintiff's action as went for the value of Cecily, and decided that the plaintiffs should be barred from the recovery thereof. Judgment on the demurrer for defendant. A jury was empannelled to try the issue on the replication to this same plea, who found a small verdict for the plaintiffs below, probably equal to the cost of the first suit, on which judgment was rendered, to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted, by the plaintiffs. Trial of the issue on the replication, and judgment for plaintiffs. It is very evident that if the court below was right with regard to the value of the slave Cecily, that the plaintiffs can show no ground to reverse their own judgment. It is one of which their adversaries, and not they, can complain. It is rendered for a cause of action, of which there is no complaint, or breach alleged in the declaration. No breach is there assigned either for costs, or the not returning any of the slaves, except Cecily and child. But when the defendants, by surplusage in their plea, alleged the payment of costs, and restoration of the other slaves, that the plaintiffs caught by the novel invention of demurring to part, and replying to part of the same plea, and in their replication, assigning a breach different from that in their declaration, and of proceeding to recover thereon, notwithstanding all of the plea which attempted to answer the action had been demurred to, and adjudged good by the court, and the plaintiffs escaped from a total defeat, by resorting to this new invention of replying to so much of the plea as was useless and unnecessary. This was done as a shift in extremis. or probably arose from the inattention of the parties as to what was the real cause of action assigned in the declaration. Where a defendant pleads a performance of conditions, no breach of which is assigned, the plaintiff replies, and an issue is formed on the plea, and found for the plaintiff, he can not take advantage of the irregularity to reverse the judgment. We know that when a defendant shall plead conditions performed to a declaration on the penal part of the instrument, the plaintiff by way of replication, may assign breaches; but we are not aware of any practice, which allows a plaintiff, after he has assigned breaches in his declaration, and is defeated in the whole of them by the pleadings of his adversary, to assign a new breach unheard of before, and go on and recover for that. To a plea of conditions performed, the plaintiff may reply and assign breaches, but having assigned one or more breaches especially, in his declaration, and been defeated by the pleadings of his adversary, he can assign no new breach afterwards. *3 But notwithstanding the plaintiffs have recovered a judgment by this device, still they have suffered an injury by the judgment of the court, depriving them of the value of the slave Cecily, for which we conceive they can sustain a writ of error. This was the main cause of action, and it was because they were defeated in this, that they took refuge in replying by new breaches. They have therefore a right to have this question revised by this court. A party succeeding upon a minor point, but failing in the main object of his suit, may sustain a writ of error to reverse the judgment, though in his favor. It was held by this court in the case of  Carrol v. Early, 4 Bibb 270, that the defendant in an action of detinue, who wrongfully withheld a slave, which died pending the action of detinue, must account for the value thereof; and this, on the principle that the defendant holding and detaining the slave in his own wrong, run the risque of his life, and could not excuse himself from the value by the death of the slave. It is hard to conceive of a reason supporting this decision, which will not equally apply to the death of a slave pending the action of replevin. Indeed the reason in the latter case is much stronger. In the first case the defendant is charged because of his wrong only; in the latter, he is not only guilty of the same wrong, but has expressly stipulated in the replevin bond, that he will restore, not excepting the event of the death of the slave, and as the lessee is bound to restore, notwithstanding the premises may have been destroyed by inevitable casualty, in a case, where he has positively stipulated to do so, as has been often held, so in this case his stipulation, especially as his own wrong and fault stands behind it, must bind him to restore. A party wrongfully possessed of slaves, as a defendant in detinue, or plaintiff in replevin after a judgment for a return, is answerable for their value, if the slaves die in his hands. If he could have been relieved from restoring Cecily or her value by her death, as he seems to suppose, it was incumbent on him, as she died pending the action of replevin, to have pleaded that matter puis darrein continuance, and thus have avoided the judgment de retorno habendo, as to her. But as he did not do so, he can not be permitted to do it now, and thus avoid, collaterally, the first judgment against him, even if it be conceded he had a right to have avoided the first judgment by pleading the death of the slave, which is very problematical, according to the decision of Carrol v. Early. The death of a slave, delivered under a writ of replevin, pending the action (in any defense), must be pleaded puis darrein continuance; it is no defense to a suit on the replevin bond. The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause remanded to said court with directions to set aside the replication, and to sustain the demurrer to said plea; and for such other proceedings as may be consistent with the law, and the opinion of this court. Turner and Caperton, for plaintiffs; Hanson and Breck, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Gentry v. Barnett 6 T.B.Mon. 113, 22 Ky. 113, 1827 WL 1642 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
