(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 73,  19 Ky. 73 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1199 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Moredock v. Rawlings. Nov. 16, 1825. *1 Assignor and Assignee. Warranty. Vendor and Vendee. Practice. Surveyor. Rescission of Contracts. Compensation. Injunctions. APPEAL FROM THE BRECKINRIDGE CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 214(5) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(B) As to Third Persons in General 400k214 Assignees of Contract or Bond for  Title 400k214(5) k. Liabilities of vendor or assignor. Most  Cited Cases In the case of an assignment of a bond for land, unless fraud in the representations of the assignor in regard to the title, or fraud or mistake in the writing, are shown, or the assignor fails in his contract, the responsibility of the assignor is limited to the amount of the original consideration of the bond, and then only when the assignee has been unable, by the use of proper means with due diligence, to coerce the title or consideration from the obligor. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 214(5) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(B) As to Third Persons in General 400k214 Assignees of Contract or Bond for  Title 400k214(5) k. Liabilities of vendor or assignor. Most  Cited Cases An assignor of a bond for land is responsible to the assignee only in case the obligor fails to make the title, and is unsuccessfully prosecuted for the damages with due diligence. Assignments 38 k 96 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k95 Rights of Assignee as Against Assignor 38k96 k. Right of recourse. Most Cited  Cases The assignment of a bond for land does not import a warranty of title, and the assignor is responsible only where the obligor fails to make the title, and the assignee is unsuccessful in prosecuting for damages with due diligence. Bonds 58 k 87 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k87 k. Rights and liabilities on assignment or sale. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k90) The assignor of a bond is not responsible to the assignee, where there has been unreasonable delay or want of diligence in proceeding against a solvent obligor. Boundaries 59 k 52(1) 59 Boundaries 59II Evidence, Ascertainment, and Establishment 59k50 Adjudication by Public Authorities 59k52 Appointment and Proceedings of Commissioners or  Processioners 59k52(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases The report of a surveyor appointed by the court, like that of a commissioner, should be excepted to, and decided on, before the hearing. Boundaries 59 k 52(1) 59 Boundaries 59II Evidence, Ascertainment, and Establishment 59k50 Adjudication by Public Authorities 59k52 Appointment and Proceedings of Commissioners or  Processioners 59k52(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases A surveyor appointed by the court need not be sworn. Injunction 212 k 1159 212 Injunction 212IV Particular Subjects of Relief 212IV(A) Courts and Actions in General 212k1152 Commencement and Prosecution in General 212k1159 k. Proceedings for recovery of real property.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 212k26(9)) A deficit of 14 acres, out of 150, is not sufficient to vacate the sale;  but, if it is ascertained before all the payments are made, the price of the deficiency may be enjoined, though there is a remedy at law. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Statement of the facts. Samuel Smallwood held a conveyance of land from Christopher Bush, giving metes and bounds, and calling the quantity of the tract one hundred and sixty-two acres and one-half; and on the 27th July, 1814, he sold it to the appellant Moredock, and gave his bond, in which his wife united, binding himself to convey it by deed of general warranty, naming the same quantity, and referring to the deed which he held. He received the payment and gave the possession. On the 14th of July, 1817, the appellant sold the same land, and gave the possession of it to Rawlings, one of the appellees, and assigned to him the bond of Smallwood and wife, in the usual form, never having taken a conveyance from them. The price at which this sale was made was $487, for $240 of which, Rawlings gave his note bearing interest and payable on the 25th of December, 1818, and the balance on the 25th of December, 1819. The first of these instalments was discharged; and on the 18th of September, 1821, Rawlings received from Smallwood and wife, a conveyance with general warranty of the aforesaid tract. On the 20th of October following, Rawlings filed his will, making Moredock and Smallwood and wife defendant,--enjoining a judgment for the last instalments due to Moredock, and praying that the contract of purchase between him and Moredock might be set aside, and rescinded. Rawlings' bill. The equity on which he relies, as set out in his original and amended bill, is-- First.--That Moredock represented the title to be safe, and free from interference, when he sold, when there was another claim on it in the name of one Johnson's heirs, who had brought an ejectment, and he feared would succeed in recovering the land or part of it, and that Smallwood is insolvent. Secondly.--Moredock had misrepresented the true position of the land, by stating it to begin at a certain point, when it began at a different place, and lay at a considerable distance from the place represented. And lastly, the writings concurred in stating, and Moredock assured him, that there were 162 1/2 acres in the tract, when it was lately discovered that there was only about one hundred and twenty-one or two acres. Moredock answered. The bill was taken pro confesso as to Smallwood and wife, and the court below set aside the contract entirely; and from that decree Moredock appealed. Moredock denies any representation about the title, and adds that he never did, nor does he yet know of any other claim on the land, nor did he hear of any other till the ejectment of Johnson's heirs, and he knows not that they have any title. Their ejectment, however, was tried before the trial of this suit, and they recovered the greater part of the land. Relying on this ground, the court below set aside the contract. Moredock's answer. Decree of the circuit court. We differ essentially with that court in believing this ground sufficient. The assignment of the bond of Smallwood imposed no warranty of the land upon Moredock, except a contingent obligation in case of Smallwood's failure in making the title, or paying the damages, after legal investigation with due diligence. *3 Assignment of a bond for land does not import a warranty of title. Assignor is responsible only in case obligor fails to make the title, and is unsuccessfully prosecuted for the damages with due diligence. And as to Smallwood's insolvency it was notorious at the date of the assignment. It is true, although there was no warranty in the assignment, yet if the contract was obtained by any unfair and untrue representations, equity would set it aside, as well as any other contract. But this is not the case here. There is no proof of false representations, nor is it shewn that Moredock ever knew of any other claim. Such assignments may however be set aside for fraud. In sales of land vendors are only bound upon their express warranty, or by their fraud, and neither exist, here, and therfore Moredock could not be bound to rescind or pay damages on either ground. Vendors of land are bound only by express contract or fraud in their sales. As to the second ground of equity, it is denied, and not proved, and there is no pretence for rescinding the contract on that account. As to the third ground, to-wit: a deficiency in the quantity of land, Moredock denies, to his recollection, making any special declarations, but admits that he thought that the land which he sold, and the deed of Bush to which it referred was right in the quantity. It may be taken for granted on this point, that both the parties, at the time of the contract, be lieved, that the nominal quantity was there, and if it is not it was a mutual mistake in both, without a wrong intention in either. On the question of fact whether the quantity is or is not deficient, the complainant below introduced the deposition of one witness who deposed that he had surveyed the tract, and had found it to contain only 121 acres, and that if a stream which bounded one side was accurately meandered, it might hold out 125 acres. But he deposed that he surveyed at the request of the complainant, and never surveyed when each were present. To rebut this a survey was made out and filed in the cause, by a person who was not the county surveyor or his deputy, but who was designated by a special order of the court to execute the survey, and had remained on file longer than one term before the hearing. This report was objected to, and rejected by the court on the sole ground that the surveyor who had made it had not made oath to its correctness. To this decision there was an exception, and the same question now presents itself. The ehancellor is not confined to the county surveyor to examine the ground and make diagrams for him. We conceive the plat ought to have been admitted as competent evidence. The court under the statutes of this country was not confined to the county surveyor but might direct its order to any competent person. A surveyor to make a diagram is like a commissioner to report sums and make assessments. He acts in the presence of both parties, or when both may be present, and is liable to detection if he reports facts untruly, and his report ought to be excepted to and quashed as other reports before hearing, if it is incorrect, whether he was sworn or not; and we deem such evidence procured by noting facts on the ground in the presence of both parties, superior to the oath of a surveyor who acted ex-parte, and there is no statute requiring the surveyor appointed by an order to be sworn either before or after he acts. We, therefore, admit this evidence, and decide on the cause as if it had been heard by the court below. *4 Reports of surveyors in chancery cases, like auditors' reports is objectionable, ought to be excepted to and decided on before the hearing. Surveyor appointed by the chancellor need not be sworn. Taking this plat, the quantity is ascertained to be 148 acres, 1 quarter and 6 poles, there being a deficit of 14 acres and 34 poles. The question then remaining is, will the mutual mistake of the parties in a sale of this nature to that extent, be a sufficient ground for setting aside an executed contract, or will it require compensation, or be a ground neither for rescission or compensation. We do not receive that this deficiency is sufficient to set aside the contract after the deed is executed. It is presumed every buyer looks at the territory which he about to purchase, and that he first knows something of the boundary where it is marked. Satisfied with the ground it can not be presumed that he would have refused to make the contract for such deficiency as this, and it is more reasonable to suppose that he would have required a variation of, or deduction from the price on being told of such deficiency, at the hour of purchase than that he would have declined the contract altogether. Of course we conceive that this deficit in quantity ought not to vacate the contract, and we put aside the eviction of Johnson's heirs, as entitled to no weight on the question of rescission. For this the appellee has his recourse to Smallwood. Deficit of 14 acres in 150, where the lines were understood, is no ground for rescission. The enquiry is, if the deficit had been discoverered in the negociation, would the sale have been declined or the price reduced. But as the purchase money is not paid, and this deficiency is discovered, we conceive the case analagous to the case of Shelby, &c. v. Smith's heirs, heretofore decided by this court, 2 Marsh. 504; and that compensation ought to made for it, and that compensation be deducted out of the price, and credited on the judgment at law, at the date when the note on which it is founded became due. This compensation is easily ascertained. It is the price of the number of acres contained in the deficiency, ascertained by the price of the whole quantity as agreed by the parties, and the injunction must be dismissed as to the residue with damages, and the bill as to Smallwood must be dismissed, as the appellee has against him a plain remedy at law. When before the payment of all the purchase money, a deficiency is found in the quantity of the land, the price of it may be enjoined. tho' there be remedy at law. The decree must be reversed, with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin, for appellants; Haggin, for appellee. Ky.App. 1825. Moredock v. Rawlings 3 T.B.Mon. 73, 19 Ky. 73, 1825 WL 1199 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
