(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 641,  22 Ky. 641 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1196 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Harris v. Wood. Apr. 11, 1828. *1 Public Buildings. Towns. Constitutional Law. Trial by Jury. Revenue. Witness. APPEAL FROM THE HART CIRCUIT; BENJAMIN MONROE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Jury 230 k 10 230 Jury 230II Right to Trial by Jury 230k10 k. Constitutional and Statutory Provisions. Most Cited Cases The right of trial by jury did not belong to public debtors before the adoption of the constitution, nor is it extended to them by that instrument. Jury 230 k 21.1 230 Jury 230II Right to Trial by Jury 230k20 Criminal Prosecutions 230k21.1 k. Application of Constitution in General. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 230k21(1)) The right of trial by jury in criminal and penal cases existed before the adoption of the constitution. Counties 104 k 82 104 Counties 104III Officers and Agents 104k81 Authority and Powers 104k82 k. Clerk. Most Cited Cases Where the clerk of a court is appointed to receive subscriptions for erecting the public buildings of a county, he acts as a revenue officer, and the subscribers become debtors to the county, as for county assessments. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. On the 28th of January, 1819, the legislature, by an act, erected the county of Hart, and provided for locating the site of justice, and in aid of the county levy to meet the large buildings of the new county, as the public buildings were to be erected, they inserted the following provisions in the act: "Be it further enacted, That the clerk of the county court of said county, is hereby authorized and empowered to open subscription papers for the purpose of proposals or subscriptions in money or property, to any amount not exceeding eight thousand dollars, from any person or persons, for the erecting the public buildings, and if any person or persons shall fail to make payment according to the articles of subscription, it shall be lawful for said clerk to recover the same or the amount thereof, on giving ten days previous notice to the defendant, on motion in the circuit court, or by warrant before a justice of the peace, as the case may require; and all sums so subscribed and received, or so much thereof as the county court shall deem necessary for that purpose, shall be applied by them to the erecting the public buildings, and the residue, if any, to be paid over to the person or persons subscribing the same." Act of the legislature authorizing subscriptions for the public buildings of Hart county. George T. Wood, the present appellee, was appointed the clerk of the county court, and in obedience to the act opened a subscription, which he presented to the firm or house of Harris and Murray, in Munfordsville, where the site of justice was about to be located, and where it was afterwards fixed. Murray, one of the partners, the other not being present at the moment, subscribed one hundred dollars in the partnership name. When the subscription was shown to the partner, Harris, though not in the presence of Murray, he changed the one hundred into two hundred dollars. *2 Subscription by Murray and Harris. The county court afterwards ordered Wood to proceed to the collection of this with other sums subscribed, and not paid. Wood gave notice to these co-partners, and made his motion against them in the circuit court, who on the trial, discharged Murray as not liable, but gave judgment against Harris for the amount, and he has appealed. Motion and judgment of the circuit court. The first question made by Harris in this court is, that the act on this point, is unconstitutional, and that the legislature could not authorize such summary proceedings to recover such a demand. Act allowing the subscriptions for the public buildings, valid. The origin of the right exists in the act, and it would seem that it was competent for the legislature to dictate the remedy also. We are not able to discover any constitutional provision, which forbids the raising of money by such a subscription, or declares that the legislature shall not provide for the recovery thereof. The only plausible objection which strikes us, lies not against the demand or the recovery thereof, by proper proceedings, but against the mode of recovery by summary proceedings, without the intervention of a jury; because the ancient mode of trial by jury is made inviolate by the constitution. On this point we observe that, according to the settled construction of this provision, by this court, it does not enlarge the right of trial by jury, and extend it to cases, where, previous to the constitution, the mode of trial did not belong as matter of right, and in all cases, where the legislature had withheld, or might withhold the trial by jury, before the constitution, they may do so after it came into operation. This demand will be found to belong to that class of cases to which the trial by jury previous to the constitution, did not belong. Government never did, either before or since the constitution, extend or grant the right of trial by jury to every controversy between herself and any of her citizens. To criminal and penal offences the right belonged; but to public debtors it did not. Hence taxes were always recoverable, not only without a jury, but even without a judge, and the assessment of ministerial officers has been made to operate as an execution on the citizen, and the collector could distrain, and any public collector could be subjected to judgment on motion for the amount. In like manner the assessment of the county levy authorizing a distress, and the non-payment of the money when collected, authorized a proceeding in a summary way, by notice and motion. Mode of recovery by motion, constitutional--because, the right of trial by jury never extended to cases of the debtors of the state or counties nor any revenue cases. It may be easily perceived that the demand in this case belongs to the county levy and partakes of the same nature. The whole invention was an appeal to the citizens, whether any of them would voluntarily tax themselves higher than the law would tax them, and if they agreed to it, they should be bound to pay it, and subject to a summary proceeding if they did not. The clerk was the mere agent or representative of the county, to see to the making of the contract. As the sheriff takes his replevin bonds, or a clerk his recognizances, in his office, on which executions may issue, so the clerk in this instance was to take these subscriptions or obligations contemplated by this law, and every subscriber became bound in a debt of a public nature, which he, by the very terms of the act, was bound to pay without jury, and the constitution of his country did not, in a demand of that character, guaranty to him the right of trial by jury. *3 Clerk appointed to receive the subscription acted as a revenue officer for the county and the Subscribeos became debtors for county levies. The remaining question is an objection taken on the trial, to the competency of the clerk, who was tendered and admitted as a witness in behalf of the county. We have not thought it necessary to determine this question. As no jury, but the court, is bound in this case to decide both the law and fact, and the evidence is special upon the record, we have no hesitation in saying, that the evidence is sufficient to warrant the judgment, even if the testimony of the clerk is excluded. If he was competent the judgment is right, and it is equally so if all his testimony was expunged, and we would not reverse and send the cause back for the same judgment to be entered. The admissibility of the clerk is, therefore, an immaterial question. Query of the competency of the clerk who received the subscriptions to give evidence in support of the demand on his own motion. Judgment affirmed with cost and damages. Crittenden and Monroe, for appellant; Mayes, for appellee. Ky.App. 1828. Harris v. Wood 6 T.B.Mon. 641, 22 Ky. 641, 1828 WL 1196 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
