(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 573,  10 Ky. 573 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1177 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bulor's Heirs v. James M'Cawley. Apr. 17, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases Where an entry calls for a settlement and pre-emption, both must be shown. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry calling for a survey never recorded, although settled on, is invalid, unless the identity and notoriety of the lines of such a survey are shown. An entry of older date cannot be made to attach to it. Boundaries 59 k 37(3) 59 Boundaries 59II Evidence, Ascertainment, and Establishment 59k37 Weight and Sufficiency of Evidence 59k37(3) k. Location of Corners, Lines, and Monuments. Most  Cited Cases The annulations in the line trees and corner trees are evidence entitled to great weight. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The appellants having obtained a judgment in ejectment against the appellee, he filed his bill, setting up an entry on treasury warrant, as the superior equitable title. The circuit court sustained his entry; and from that decree this appeal is prayed. His entry is as follows: "June 29, 1780: James M'Cawley enters 560 acres upon T. W. adjoining his pre-emption, on the north side, near the Fish Pool creek." "1784, November 25th: James M'Cawley amends his entry of 560 acres, viz: instead of lying on the north of his pre-emption, to begin at the N. W. corner of his settlement, and running with a line thereof to his pre-emption, and with his pre-emption line N. 15 E. to his corner--thence S. 75 E. 132 poles-- thence N. 15 E. and from the beginning the same course so far that a cross line at right angles will include the quantity." The certificate of his settlement is not filed. The entry of his settlement with the surveyor reads thus:-- "1780, Jan. 10th: James M'Cawley enters 400 acres in Kentucky, by virtue of a certificate, &c., lying on Fish Pool creek, about two miles west of the Fish Pools." The entry of his pre-emption warrant is not in the record. It will appear by this statement at once, that the entry of the appellee on treasury warrant, can not be sustained by attaching it to the locations of his settlement and pre-emption. His reliance must be on his amended entry, which materially changes the calls of the original. This amendment, however, calls for the pre-emption, and his failing to shew this and substantiate its calls, must, according to repeated decisions of this court, be deemed fatal to the entry, considered as resting on this ground. Besides, the Fish pools themselves lie at the head of Fish Pool creek, and the stream issuing from them, bears a little east of north. Place his settlement two miles west, without regard to the call of the creek, and lay his treasury warrant besides it, and he can not reach the land in contest. Disregarding the call "west," and placing it on the creek two miles below the pools, will place him equally as far from the land covered by the appellees. From the settlement entry, then, as a locative call, he can derive no aid. *2 An entry calling for a settlement and pre-emption can not prevail unless both are shewn. The effort of the appellee, however, is not to sustain his claim by attaching it to the entries of his settlement and pre-emption, but to their surveys. These are filed. The pre-emption was surveyed in three surveys--one of 91 acres--the second for 409 acres--and the third 500 acres, adjoining each other, all in the name of James Francis Moore, assignee of John May, who was assignee of John Baker, who was assignee of James M'Cawley, and each bears date the 17th October, 1786, and are signed by James F. Moore as deputy surveyor, with chain carriers annexed. The settlement survey is in the name of Jas. M'Cawley himself, the appellee, but it bears date October, 30, 1782, and is signed by the same deputy surveyor. This statement may at once appear to defeat the attempt of attaching the treasury warrant amended entry to these surveys, not only different in name, but about two years later in date. To obviate this, however, the complainant below has shewn that the Fish pools were notorious, that James Francis Moore settled at or near them in the spring 1784, claiming under the appellee's pre-emption, and that the appellee himself settled on the territory now covered either by his patent, settlement, or pre-emption, and has continued to reside there ever since: That a trace, notorious and much traveled previous to the date of the amended entry, passed from Louisville to Man's lick, crossing Fish Pool creek, and through the same territory. The above facts appear to be satisfactorily established. In addition to these, the appellee has attempted to prove that although the surveys bear such a modern date, yet they were in fact made prior to the date of his amended entry, and were notoriously known as such to those conversant in the vicinity, and that thus they ought to be supported as good locative calls. The court has been led attentively to consider the facts in the cause, to see how far he has been successful in this attempt, before a decision upon the effect of it. The circumstance of persons being settled on a located claim, holding under it, would no doubt attach to it a kind of indefinite and uncircumscribed locality, even without a survey, and others conversant in the vicinity would be led to conclude, that on the surrounding territory the claim was laid. But this will not dispense with the fact of actual demarkation or its identity, and not only the body of land, but the demarkation itself ought to be notorious, and identified, especially when no public office, but the knowledge of individuals alone, could furnish the courses and distances of the survey, and all the means of finding it. The date of the surveys ought to be taken at least as prima facie evidence of the time they were made. It was the duty of the officer to return them in three months after making; if this is not done, it raises a presumption that they were either private or inofficial, or that the party intended not to be bound by the work, but to alter and change them, or that some other reason existed for detaining them, which render them precarious and uncertain as locative calls, unless they were completely identified by proof. For these reasons the fact of the existence of these surveys at the date of the complainant's entry, and of their identity with the calls now claimed, as well as the facts of being easily found, and of the demarcation being notoriously known by his name ought to be clearly and satisfactorily made out in proof to sustain such calls as good. To prove these facts the appellee produced Mrs. Moore, widow of the late Col. J. F. Moore, who deposed that in January or February, 1783, her husband, Cols. Pope and Floyd and John May, and some others, went as she understood into the neighborhood of the Fish pools to survey, and Colonel Moore told her that they were surveying M'Cawley's pre-emption; that they were absent about one week; that she understood May was to have part of the pre-emption and Col. Moore on the same tour purchased it from him by exchanging other lands. That the summer of 1784, Colonel Moore showed her four of the lines of the pre-emption, among which was the division line between her husband and M'Cawley. She states nothing of the plainness of the lines, and the facility with which they could be followed. She was not taken on the ground to identify them as lines now claimed. She professes no knowledge of the settlement survey, and speaks nothing of the notoriety of either survey. *3 An entry calling for the lines of a survey never recorded, can not be sustained, though that survey was settled on, unless the identity and notoriety of the lines are most clearly shewn; such entry can not be made to attach to a survey bearing a date subsequent to its own date. Brooks lived in the neighborhood and appears to have knowledge of Moore & M'Cawley's residence, and also it may be inferred from his deposition that he had an understanding M'Cawley's settlement and pre-emption was believed to be at their residence. And at first blush his answer to at least one ingenious question might induce a belief that he knew of the surveys. He is asked, "could you so have directed a subsequent locator on the 25th of Nov., 1784, that he could have found James M'Cawley's settlement and pre-emption where he lived, and said Fish pools and Fish creek? He answers, "I could." He had detailed his knowledge of the residence of M'Cawley, of the Fish pools and creek positively by direct answers before, but not one word of his knowledge of a survey being made, or its identity, is pretended by him. The former objects are artfully coupled with the settlement and pre-emption and without attending to the difference between them and the objects of which he had clear knowledge, he has incautiously answered in the affirmative. From his deposition then we cannot say that he had knowledge of the fact that a survey existed or that it was notorious. The annulations of the trees, on some of the lines, but on how many lines and how many trees, or in what lines, does not appear, for the purpose of proving the early existence of the surveys is resorted to. This species of evidence may often be entitled to great weight, as that which arises from the progress of nature itself without danger of corruption. But in this instance, altho' it renders it probable that the surveys were made a little earlier than their date, it does not show, with any degree of certainty that they were made as early as the complainant's entry. Nor does this evidence, all taken together, attach reasonable certainty to this fact, or that the fact was then notorious. The annulations of line trees is entitled to great weight, as evidence of the time when a survey was made. The only remaining witness is Joshua M'Cawley. He is the son of the complainant. This circumstance may go to his credit, but not to his competence. His deposition is taken three times. By comparing them together we cannot help saying that he has destroyed his own credit, In his first deposition, taken the 5th of February, 1814, after answering some interrogatories about one of the corners of the settlement, he is asked, "how long has it been since you first saw the above corner? He answers, between eighteen and twenty years. Again, "how long has it been since you knew that there was a marked line from that corner? Ans. Between seventeen and nineteen years. These answers, at the extent, fixes his knowledge of this settlement corner not earlier than the year 1794. The cause however, progresses till 1817, and the difficulty of proving the desired facts seems to increase, and the want of them may be fatal. At this critical period, in a new deposition, he swears positively to all that is wanting in answer to the following interrogatories:--1. Was or was not James M'Cawley's settlement and preemption surveyed, and the lines and corners run and marked on and before the 25th day of Nov. 1784? Ans. They were.--Was not the said settlement and preemption at the fish pools generally and well known, and could they not have been easily found by a subsequent locator, and particularly, could not the said settlement and pre-emption have been shown by Col. J. F. Moore and others living at the fish pools and near and adjoining the lands? Ans. Yes: They were well known and could have been shown by said Moore and others! How long have you a distinct recollection of the said settlement and pre-emption being surveyed? Ans. Between 32 and 33 years! Such a conflict between depositions of different dates, without any reasonable means of accounting for it, must destroy the credit of both. We, therefore, disregarding his testimony, and believing he never saw marks made on line or corner. and that he was ignorant of their existence at a more early period than that fixed by his first deposition, lay his testimony aside and rest it on that before recited. It is also worthy of remark that there are other witnesses sworn who knew the objects in the neighborhood, at a more early date than the entry, and they are wholly silent as to the fact of the existence of surveys and their identity, and also the reputation of such a fact. Testing the case then by the rule before intimated that in the case of a survey not recorded the fact of its existence and identity with the objects now claimed as well as its actual notoriety, ought to be clearly made out at the date of the adjoining entry to furnish snch?? entry with a good locative call, we conceive that the appellee has failed to comply with it, and consequently that the decree of the court below in his favor is erroneous and must be reversed with costs and a mandate issue to dismiss his bill with costs. Ky.App. 1821. Bulor's Heirs v. McCawley 3 A.K.Marsh. 573, 10 Ky. 573, 1821 WL 1177 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
