(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 94,  21 Ky. 94 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1511 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Withers v. Richardson. Jun. 7, 1827. *1 Frauds and Perjuries. Limitations. Pleading. Evidence. APPEAL FROM THE MERCER CIRCUIT; WILL. L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 3 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185I In General 185I(B) Agreements in Consideration of Marriage 185k3 k. Mutual Promises to Marry. Most Cited  Cases The statute does not apply to agreements to marry. Limitation of Actions 241 k 115 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(H) Commencement of Proceeding;  Relation Back 241k115 k. Mode of Computation of Time Limited. Most Cited  Cases The time of the statute is computed from the accruing of the action to the commencement of the suit. Witnesses 410 k 287(4) 410 Witnesses 410III Examination 410III(C) Re-Examination 410k285 Redirect Examination 410k287 Explanation of Testimony on  Cross-Examination 410k287(4) k. Drawing Out Whole of Transaction  or Conversation in General. Most Cited Cases Defendant, in a breach of promise suit, in cross-examining a physician introduced by plaintiff to prove her pregnancy, elicited the fact that plaintiff told him she had another disease, and then stopped the interrogatories saying he did not wish to make use of any communication the plaintiff had made to him in his professional capacity. Held, that the plaintiff had a right to call for the whole conversation from the witness, to the effect that the disease was venereal and communicated by the defendant. Evidence 157 k 263(2) 157 Evidence 157VII Admissions 157VII(E) Proof and Effect 157k263 Explanation or Limitation 157k263(2) k. Right to Show Entire Statement or  Conversation. Most Cited Cases When a part of a conversation has been introduced in evidence by a party in a cause, the adverse party has a right to put in evidence the rest of it. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement. This is an action of assumpsit on a promise to marry, and a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff below; to reverse which, this writ of error is prosecuted. There was a demurrer to the declaration first tried and overruled. We perceive no defect in the declaration. The three counts are drawn according to the most approved forms, and the two last are valid beyond controversy. Declaration approved. Besides the plea of non assumpsit, the defendant pleaded that the contract was in parol only, and relied on the statute to prevent frauds and perjuries, and this plea on demurrer was held ill. It has never been held, that the words of that statute, "any agreement made upon consideration of marriage," meant or included promises to marry. It would be imputing to the legislature too great an absurdity, to suppose that they had enacted that all our courtships, to be valid, must be in writing. *2 Statute of frauds and perjuries does not apply to agreements to marry. The defendant pleaded, or rather attempted to plead the statute of limitations, and there was no replication to that plea, and this is relied on to reverse the judgment. If the plea had been good, the want of a replication thereto, according to previous decisions, might have been fatal. Want of a replication to a plea of the statute of limitations may be fatal. But the plea is, that the defendant did not assume within five years, instead of actio non accrevit, the action did not accrue within five years before the emanation of the writ. Now it is evident that the statute did not begin to run from the making of the promise, but from the breach of it, and the plea is therefore wholly immaterial, and it would be absurd to reverse the judgment, because the plaintiff did not answer an invalid plea. Limitation is from the accrual of the action, not the assumpsit. The remaining question is made on the admission of evidence. The plaintiff introduced a physician as a witness, who among other things, stated that he had attended upon and prescribed for the plaintiff during her pregnancy. He was interrogated by the defendant's counsel, whether he had not prescribed for some other disease besides pregnancy, to which the witness answered that he had, and the only knowledge that she had any other disease was derived from the plaintiff herself, which induced him thus to prescribe. The defendant's counsel ceased the interrogation here, declaring that he did not want or intend to make use of any of the declarations in communications of the plaintiff to the witness shewing that she had such other disease. The counsel for the plaintiff insisted that as the defendant's counsel had gone thus far, and elicited the fact that the plaintiff had some other disease, by her own communications, he had a right to bring out the whole of that communication of the plaintiff at the same time that she communicated that fact to the physician. This was objected to by defendant's counsel; but the court overruled the objection, and the physician answered, that the communication of the plaintiff which disclosed to him that she had another disease, also informed him that the disease was the venereal, and that it had been communicated to her by the defendant. To this decision of the court, an exception was taken. Questions of evidence stated. The rule, that when one party attempts to avail himself of the declarations or admissions of his adversary, he must take all made at the same time, is well settled and well understood; but the difficulty here consists in determining whether this case comes within the rule, and whether it does or does not, it must be confessed that it is near the boundary line; and on due consideration, we are of opinion that it comes within it. It seems to be clearly the intention of the defendant, to avail himself, in excuse or mitigation of damages, of the fact that the plaintiff had another disease, while that fact rested on her own confessions, or private communications to her physician Thus far and no farther, he was satisfied to have it, and it is easily seen how it might be thence inferred that this disease was of an impure character and therefore the defendant might be excused from marrying her. If on the contrary, the same declaration imputed that impurity to her illicit connection with the defendant, it is easily perceived that it aggravated his offense. *3 Where one party gives in evidence a statement of his adversary, the whole conversation is made evidence. Under such circumstances, the defendant ought not to have been permitted to avail himself of the existence of the fact, resting exclusively on her own communication, without taking the communication disclosing it entirely, and the court therefore did not err in permitting it. Judgment affirmed, with costs and damages. Crittenden and Daviess, for appellant; Haggin, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Withers v. Richardson 5 T.B.Mon. 94, 21 Ky. 94, 1827 WL 1511 (Ky.), 17 Am.Dec. 44 END OF DOCUMENT
