(Cite as: 4 Litt. 277,  14 Ky. 277 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1279 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Henderson's Adm'rs. v. Clarke. Nov. 26, 1823. *1 FROM THE SIMPSON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. CHRISTOPHER TOMPKINS SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 12 162 Executors and Administrators 162II Appointment, Qualification, and Tenure 162k8 Jurisdiction of Courts 162k12 k. Situs of Assets. Most Cited  Cases The probate court may appoint an administrator for a decedent domiciled in a foreign state at the time of his death, if he left assets and debts within the jurisdiction of the court. Executors and Administrators 162 k 518(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XII Foreign and Ancillary Administration 162k518 Ancillary Appointment 162k518(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Administrator granted in this state of property here of a resident of another state is not impaired or abridged by a previous grant of administration in such other state. SHARP and MONROE for plaintiff; no attorney for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Matthew Henderson, a resident of Philadelphia, there died, and letters of administration were granted to his widow and another in that city, by the proper authority. He held or claimed some slaves in the county of Jessamine in this state, at his death, and the county court of that county, granted letters of administration to the present plaintiff in error, who had not administered in Philadelphia. For these same slaves, the present plaintiff in error brought this action of detinue, and declared on the possession of his testator and himself. To prove himself ??dministrator, he introduced the order of the county court of Jessamine. To controvert that right, the defendant introduced an authenticated copy of the letters granted in Philadelphia, and the court instructed the jury, that as administration was granted to two persons in Philadelphia, who were still living, the plaintiff could not recover; and this forms the only question for our decision. A resident of Philadelphia died there, and letters of administration were granted there; he had some property in this State, and letters of administration were granted to one of our citizens here: Held, that his powers were not impaired or aabridged, or any way affected, by the previous grant in Pennsylvania. Whether, before our act of assembly of 1812, 1 Dig. L. K. 536, an executor or administrator, claiming under foreign letters, could recover here, may well be doubted, when the authorities on that point are considered. But however this may be, it is certain that from a fair construction of our act of assembly, 1 Dig. L. K. 527, the county courts of this state possess authority to grant letters of administration, if there be any estate belonging to the decedent in the county, although he may not have resided in the state at the time of his death. This doctrine is maintained by this court in the case of Jackson v. Jeffries, 1 Marsh. 88, 3 Marsh. 309. It is, therefore clear, that the county court of Jessamine, where these slaves were at the time of the decedent's death, had the power of granting letters of administration to the plaintiff in error; and it is equally clear, that this power is unconditional, and does not depend upon the fact that the court of some other state, may have granted administration of the goods of the same decedent. It further results, that if the appointment of the plaintiff in error is absolute, he must be vested with the rights of an administrator, and can sue for and collect the estate of his intestate. *2 The only remaining question, is, does the act of assembly first recited, which permits the administrator or executor, constituted such by the laws of another state, to sue, abridge or curtail the powers and capacities of the administrator appointed here? We conceive not. The converse of the proposition is more easily maintained, and it should be more plansibly contended, that the granting administration here, curtailed the privileges of suit extended to the foreigner. But without giving any positive opinion on this point, it would not follow, that if the foreign administrator could sue and recover under the act, the domestic one could not do the same. It frequently happens, in our code, that two may have the right of action for the same thing. Such is the case of the bailee and the real owner of a chattel; either may recover it of a stranger. And in such case, generally, the recovery of one satisfies the law. The contrary supposition must have prevailed with the court below. It is, however, the opinion of this court, that before the passage of the act in question, the right of a foreign administrator either did not exist, or was thought doubtful by the legislature, and if no person administered here, there could be no collecting the chattels here, to the general fund; and to obviate this mischief, the legislature intended to extend, as a matter of national courtesy, this courtesy to the foreign representative, without in any respect abridging or curtailing the authority which might be granted by our own courts. Whether this act of courtesy is suspended by the grant here, or exists concurrently with it, we conceive that the result will be precisely the same as to the present controversy, and the plaintiff in error had a right to maintain the suit, the previous grant of Pennsylvania notwithstanding. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed, and the verdict set aside, and the cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Henderson's Adm'rs v. Clarke 4 Litt. 277, 14 Ky. 277, 1823 WL 1279 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
