(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 30,  19 Ky. 30 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1184 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kenningham v. McLaughlin. Nov. 12, 1825. *1 Statutes. Frauds and Perjuries. Parent and Child. Guardian and Ward. Possession. APPEAL FROM THE BOURBON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON JUDGE. West Headnotes Guardian and Ward 196 k 35 196 Guardian and Ward 196III Custody and Care of Ward's Person and Estate 196k35 k. Possession and Use of Property. Most Cited Cases Where a gift is made to an infant, and the possession is delivered to the father, he holds as natural guardian, and not in his own right. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement. The appellee, by her next friend, brought her action of detinue against the appellant, for a negro man slave, to which action the appellant pleaded non detinet. On the trial the appellee gave evidence that, when she was three or four years of age, she was taken on a visit to her paternal grandfather's dwelling, in 1808. While there, the grandfather presented to her the negro boy slave in question, about the same age with herself; that her father took the slave into custody for his child, brought him home and kept him as other slaves till 1819, when he died, and that his administrators, of whom his widow was one, did not, aware of the appellee's claim, place the slave in the inventory of his estate; and that her mother afterwards continued to hire out the slave for the benefit of the appellee, until he was taken in execution issued on a judgment against the administrators of the father, and sold, when one Enos Daniel became the purchaser, and sold the slave to the appellant. It also appeared that this purchaser was a witness before an inquest called by the sheriff to try the right of property before the sale--he there deposed that the slave in the family of the father of the appellee was always counted the property of the appellee;--that, in the name of the appellee and her mother, he forbade the sale while it was progressing, and then bid off the slave, and boasted that he had done more for the appellee, who was his niece, by purchasing the slave for her, than any of her connexions. The rest of the evidence given on the trial was of the impeaching or corroborating character. Evidence on the trial. The counsel for the appellant moved the court to instruct the jury, that if the father of the appellee had been in possession of the slave for more than five years before his death, there being no evidence of a gift in writing, the pretended gift to the appellee was fraudulent and void as to the creditors of the father, and that the slave was subject to the judgment and execution by virtue of which he was sold. The court refused this instruction, and the appellant excepted; and the verdict and judgment having been rendered against him, he has brought the case to this court. Instructions moved and overruled, and exception. We conceive, with the court below, that the instruction asked ought not to have been given. It was an attempt to induce the court to decide, that the case came within that section of the act to prevent frauds and perjuries which vitiates loans or grants for more than five years, when the reservation is not made in writing. This is not a loan or a grant from the father to the child, he remaining the ostensible owner. It is neither a loan nor a gift from the grandfather to the father, but a positive gift to the grandchild. Neither the creditors of the grandfather nor of the grandchild have disturbed the title, but the creditors of the father to whom the slave was never given, or loaned, but in whose custody the slave remained from necessity, as the natural guardian of the child, who was not able to protect her own interests. The possession of the father must then be considered as the possession of the child. And although this possession being apparently in the father might give him a delusive credit, yet subjecting the slave to his debts would punish the child, for an offence in which she had no participation, and present the absurdity of taking her property from the custody of him to whom the law gave it, for her, and subjecting it to his debts. *2 Where a gift is made to an infant, and the father takes the possession, he holds as natural guardian, and the possession is the infant's and so the case not within the statute to subject the property to the creditors of the father. The only remaining question is the propriety of the decision of the court below, in overruling a motion for a new trial, because the verdict was against both law and evidence. We have answered the law of the case already--and as to the evidence, it was a matter peculiarly proper for the decision of the jury, and we can not say that they have decided wrongfully. Motion for new trial overruled. The judgment must be affirmed with costs and damages on the damages given below. Bibb for appellant; Haggin for defendant. Ky.App. 1825. Kenningham v. McLaughlin 3 T.B.Mon. 30, 19 Ky. 30, 1825 WL 1184 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
