(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 567,  10 Ky. 567 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1174 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Bank of Lexington v. John A. Turner et al. Jun. 14, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Banks and Banking 52 k 216 52 Banks and Banking 52III Functions and Dealings 52III(H) Actions 52k216 k. Nature and Form of Remedy. Most Cited  Cases The Bank of Lexington may prosecute its suits by petition and summons. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank of Lexington, brought a petition and summons in the court below, on a promissory note made to the bank directly, to secure the payment of money, and signed by all three of the appellees. The note is drawn in the usual form, and on its face is made payable and negotiable at the bank. The appellees demurred generally, and the appellants joined in demurrer. The court sustained the demurrer, and gave judgment for the appellees; and this appeal is prosecuted. We do not perceive on what grounds the demurrer can be supported. It was certainly competent for the bank to take such note to secure any loan due to it, or debt contracted within the scope of its legitimate powers and capacity, and nothing is shewn conducing to shew that the bank had exceeded its authority. The bank, as has been frequently held by this court, might resort to this form of action to recover the demand, and in all respects the petition conforms to the requisitions of the act of assembly authorizing the remedy. The inferior court therefore erred in sustaining the demurrer. The bank may prosecute her suit by petition and summons. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions there to overrule the demurrer, and give judgment for the appellants, unless the appellees shall tender a valid plea, and obtain leave to withdraw the demurrer. Wickliffe, for appellant; Haggin, contra. Ky.App. 1821. Bank of Lexington v. Turner 3 A.K.Marsh. 567, 10 Ky. 567, 1821 WL 1174 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
