(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 541,  22 Ky. 541 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1178 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Butler v. Suddeth. Jan. 7, 1828. *1 Assignee and Assignor. Presumptions. Contracts. Parol Evidence. Costs. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; S. W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 285 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(B) Indorsement for Transfer 56k285 k. Time of Indorsement. Most Cited  Cases Where the holder of a note passes it by delivery only, the fact that he subsequently indorses it does not of itself import more than that he was willing to pass the legal title thereto without incurring further responsibility. Bills and Notes 56 k 308 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(B) Indorsement for Transfer 56k308 k. Rights and Liabilities as Between Indorsers in  General. Most Cited Cases An assignee may recover of his assignor the costs expended by him in prosecuting the obligor to insolvency, but not the costs recovered of him (the assignee) by his assignee, who had pursued the obligor, and then returned on him and recovered a judgment with costs. Each assignee can recover against his assignor only what he paid for the note, and the costs of the suit against the insolvent maker. Bills and Notes 56 k 310 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(C) Assignment or Sale 56k310 k. Nature and Construction of Contract in General.  Most Cited Cases The fact that the payee of a note transferred it by delivery only, and that his transferee passed it in like manner, repels the presumption of liability in case the maker fails. Bills and Notes 56 k 514 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k500 Admissibility of Evidence 56k514 k. In Actions on Contracts of Indorsement. Most Cited  Cases It may be proved by parol that the transfer of a note by delivery was expressly without recourse, notwithstanding a subsequent written assignment of the note in the usual form. Evidence 157 k 423(6) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(A) Contradicting, Varying, or Adding to Terms of Written Instrument 157k423 Nature and Extent of Liability 157k423(6) k. Bills and Notes and Indorsement Thereof.  Most Cited Cases Parol evidence is admissible to prove that a note assigned in the usual form was assigned without recourse. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Suddeth sued Jacob Butler, in assumpsit, on the assignment of a promissory note, made to him by Butler, alleging diligent pursuit by due process of law, against the maker, and that he had proved insolvent. *2 Declaration by assignee against assignor. On the trial of the issue of non-assumpsit, it appeared in evidence, on the part of the defendant, that he, the defendant, had sold and passed the note, first to William Butler, by delivery only, not assigning it, and that said William Butler passed the note in the same way, by delivery only, to the plaintiff, telling the plaintiff that the defendant would assign it to him; that accordingly the plaintiff left the note in the hands of a friend to be presented to the defendant for his assignment. That friend presented it to the defendant, and he assigned it, when the plaintiff was not present, and it was some time afterwards handed back to the plaintiff. The counsel for defendant asked the witness who proved that William Butler passed the note to the plaintiff by delivery, telling him that Jacob Butler, the defendant would assign it, whether William Butler, did not also tell the plaintiff, that Jacob Butler, the defendant, had passed it away without recourse? To this question the plaintiff objected, as improper and irrelevant. The court sustained the objection, and the jury having found a verdict against the defendant, he has prosecuted this writ of eror. Parol evidence to prove a note assigned in the usual form was without recourse, offered and rejected. We conceive, in excluding this evidence the court below erred. There is nothing in the assignment of a note, in usual form as this is, which engages in totidem verbis, to pay any thing, if the maker fails. There is no express assumpsit or promise by the assignor to the assignee, that he will make the note good, or rather restore the consideration which he has received. The recovery then is on an implied assumpsit, on a presumption that he has made such undertaking. This presumption, like all others, is subject to be rebutted or destroyed by proper proof, and if the assignment is in usual form, the assignor may, nevertheless, destroy the presumption, by proving that at the time he made the assignment, it was agreed, there should be no recourse upon him, and that he should not be liable; or he may prove circumstances attending the assignment calculated to repel the presumption. Such circumstances we conceive, the defendant here did prove. He passed the note away by delivery only, and his transferree passed it in like manner. The bare circumstance of passing a note by delivery only, has of itself, been held prima facie evidence that there should be no recourse if the maker failed. The further fact that the note had been left in the road of the defendant for his assignment, and his assigning it, in the absence of the plaintiff did not, of itself, import more, than that he was willing to pass the legal title thereto, without incurring further responsibility. Where obligee passes a note without assignment, and the purchaser passes it in like manner to another who obtains obligee to make an assignment in the common form, the presumption is, there is no liability. *3 The additional fact, therefore, which the defendant wished to extract from the witness, that when the plaintiff got the note, (as we understand the exception), from William Butler, the transferree of the defendant, he was told by said William, that the defendant had passed it without recourse, was a circumstance which conduced to prove that the plaintiff took the note without recourse, and that when he obtained the defendant's assignment, through the agency of his friend, he did not expect that the defendant had incurred any liability, and that the whole transaction shewed the defendant not liable. It may be proved by parol, notwithstanding the written assignment of a note in the usual form, that the transfer was without recourse. There is another question of some novelty which may again occur on another trial of the cause, and therefore we must notice it. The plaintiff, Suddeth, after he had received the assignment of the note from the defendant, assigned it to Robert Saunders. Saunders brought suit thereon against the maker and pursued him to insolvency by process of law. Saunders then sued the present plaintiff, and recovered against him a verdict and judgment on his assignment. The plaintiff gave in evidence, not only the record of Saunders against the maker of the note, but also the record of the suit, Saunders against himself, and the court below determined, that the defendant was liable to the costs of both suits. That the costs of the suit wherein the maker of the note is pursued to insolvency, can be recovered against an assignor, and is within the implied assumpsit, has been ruled by former adjudications; but that the costs of all the suits which all the assignees may bring against their respective assignors, if there be a dozen of them, must all fall upon, and be recovered of the last assignor, is extending the undertaking of an assignor beyond any decision heretofore known to us. It may be presumed that the assignor undertook to pay the costs of pursuing the maker to insolvency; but it can not be presumed that he undertook to pay for the default of every subsequent assignor, who might fail to do his duty by fulfilling his warranty, till compelled to do so by suit. Assignee may recover of assignor the costs expended by him in prosecuting obligor to insolvency--but not the costs recovered of him, the assignee, by his assignee, who had pursued the obligor, and then returned on him and recovered a judgment with costs. The failure of the plaintiff to pay Saunders his money and costs, after Saunders had pursued the maker to insolvency, was the plaintiff's own failure, the costs of which he must bear himself, as other debtors do, when sued. He might have paid up Saunders without suit, and then taken his recourse on the defendant, and the suit against him was not necessary to give him his recourse against the defendant, and if he chose to withhold from Saunders what was due to him till after judgment, it was his own fault. *4 He ought to have paid without suit. The recovery of Saunders against him, did not form the criterion of his recovery against the defendant, as each assignee recovers against his assignor what he paid for the note, and the costs of the suit against the insolvent maker, and this is as far as the implied assumpsit of an assignor has ever been held to extend. The court, therefore, erred in permitting the costs of the suit, of Saunders against the plaintiff, to be given in evidence and recovered against the defendant. Each assignee recovers of his assignor according to the consideration he paid. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the verdict set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiff; James Trimble, for defendant. Ky.App. 1828. Butler v. Suddeth 6 T.B.Mon. 541, 22 Ky. 541, 1828 WL 1178 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
