(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 96,  21 Ky. 96 (Ky.),  1827 WL 71 (Ky.)) H Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Kinney, &c. v. Carroll. Jun. 7, 1827. *1 Occupants. Constitutional Law. Statutory Bonds. Executions. APPEAL FROM THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT; WILL. L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 95 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k95 k. Indorsements. Most Cited Cases An execution on a bond, under the law of 1812, given to secure an evicted occupant for his improvements, ought to be for the penalty, with an indorsement that it may be discharged by the payment of the installments due, stating them. Execution 161 k 214 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k214 k. Statutory Provisions. Most Cited Cases Law extending term of replevin on judgment on certain contract was unconstitutional. Constitutional Law 92 k 951 92 Constitutional Law 92VI Enforcement of Constitutional Provisions 92VI(B) Estoppel, Waiver, or Forfeiture 92k951 k. Reliance on Statute or Availment of Statutory  Benefits. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 92k43(2)) A plaintiff, who has an execution issued and indorsed under the law, authorizing lands to be sold on a credit of one year, and by his agent has bid at the sale, cannot object to the constitutionality of the act. Constitutional Law 92 k 2696 92 Constitutional Law 92XXII Obligation of Contract 92XXII(B) Contracts with Governmental Entities 92XXII(B)2 Particular Issues and Applications 92k2696 k. Contracts with States in General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 92k115) The statute of 1812, concerning occupying claimants of land, allowing them for improvements made on the land, etc., does not violate the compact between Kentucky and Virginia, which provided that all rights and interests to land should be determined by the laws then existing in Virginia, and is not unconstitutional. Constitutional Law 92 k 2772 92 Constitutional Law 92XXII Obligation of Contract 92XXII(C) Contracts with Non-Governmental Entities 92XXII(C)2 Particular Issues and Applications 92k2771 Enforcement of Judgment or  Debt 92k2772 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 92k179) A law passed after a contract is made, extending the term of replevin on a judgment rendered on such contract, impairs the obligation of the contract, and violates the constitution of the United States. Improvements 206 k 2 206 Improvements 206k2 k. Statutory Provisions. Most Cited Cases Statute concerning occupying claimants of land allowing them for improvements, was not unconstitutional. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. To quash a bond given to secure, in two annual installments, the value of improvements assessed in favor of Carroll, as an occupant, evicted under the act concerning occupying claimants of 1812;--an execution issued on that bond;--a replevin bond taken thereon, at a credit of two years;--and an execution on this latter bond;--the appellants issued their writ of error coram vobis, which was decided against them in the court below, and they have appealed. The points relied on here, are the same made in the court below, and are as follows: *2 1. The act under which the proceedings were had by the appointment of commissioners, and all the proceedings thereupon, are erroneous, because said act of the legislature of Kentucky, is contrary to the compact with Virginia, and in violation of the constitution of the United States, the appellants here holding title by grant before the compact. Points relied on. 2. One bond was given for the two installments, when regularly two separate bonds, one for each installment, with interest, should have been executed by the successful claimants. 3. But one execution has issued for the amount of said installments, when two distinct and separate executions should have issued for each installment. 4. The replevin bond under said execution is erroneous and void; the act of Kentucky, authorizing and directing a replevy of two years, being contrary to the constitution of Kentucky, and in violation of the constitution of the United States, and therefore void. As to the first point, it was held in  Fowler v. Halbert, 4 Bibb 52, that the occupying claimant law of 1812, is constitutional. Claims under it have been enforced ever since, in cases too numerous to be quoted. This decision is adhered to expressly, in Bodley v. Gaither, fall term, 1825, 3 Monroe 578, and at the present term in Saunders' heirs v. Norton, 4 Monroe, so that the point in this court is at rest, and can not be again made a question. Occupant law of 1812 is constitutional. On the second error assigned, the act expressly speaks of but one bond, to secure the whole amount of improvements due to one occupant, conditioned to pay the real sum due to the occupant, in two annual installments, so that two bonds would have been improper, and contrary to the statute. One bond only is required for the two installments--and--Execution on such bond ought to be for the penalty, with an endorsement, that it may be discharged by the payment of the installments due, stating them. Whether two executions instead of one should be issued, admits of a solution equally easy. The execution ought, and in this instance did issue, for the penalty of the bond. When but one installment is due, it ought to be endorsed, that it is to be discharged by that installment and the costs. Both installments had become due before this execution was issued, and as it was for the penalty, the endorsement was properly made, that it could only be discharged by the collection of both installments, otherwise, one installment must have been lost, or the obligee would have been driven to the absurdity of two executions, for the same penalty, at the same moment. On the fourth point, it has been decided by this court, in the case of  Blair, &c. v. Williams, 4 Litt. Rep. 34. and Lapsley, &c. v. Brashear, &c.  ibid. 47, that the acts which authorized a replevin of two years, so far at least as they operate on contracts made before their passage, were unconstitutional and void. These decisions, we still approve, and suppose they are founded on principles which can not be subverted, and to be sustained by reasons which can not be refuted. *3 Acts which allowed a replevin of two years are unconstitutional as to all contracts made before their passage. But it has also been held in the case of Hansford et. al. v. Barbour, 3 Marsh. 515, and by numerous other cases, that he who takes advantage of these acts, by giving a replevin bond, and availing himself of that delay, can not complain of the want of constitutionality in the acts, because he had no interest affected or constitutional right violated; and that his adversary alone, has grounds of complaint. To permit him to vitiate a replevin bond on this ground, when his adversary is willing to abide by it, would be allowing him to avail himself of his own wrong, and in this attitude the appellants here stand. But the debtor availing himself of the benefit of the laws, can not assert their invalidity. It has been urged in argument here, that this bond for improvements is invalid, because it was executed by the sureties alone, and not by the successful claimant, who ought to have given it according to the law. To this we answer, that this point does not seem to have been made in the court below, whose decision we are revising, and if it had been, it might have been a good reason in the mouth of the appellee, why he should not be compelled to receive or rely upon the bond; but it can not be a reason why it should not be obligatory on those who have executed it. Bonds for improvements signed by the sureties only, can not be quashed on their motion; but may on the motion of the obligee, made on that ground in the circuit court. Upon the whole, there is no error in the judgment of the court below, and it must be affirmed with costs. Haggin, for appellants; Woodson, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. McKinney v. Carroll 5 T.B.Mon. 96, 21 Ky. 96, 1827 WL 71 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
