(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 50,  17 Ky. 50 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1479 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Vanhorne and Wife v. Tilley. Oct. 8, 1824. *1 Possession, Leases. ERROR TO THE HENRY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 9(7) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k9 Prior Possession of Plaintiff 179k9(7) k. Possession of Part of Premises. Most Cited  Cases Actual residence on one part of a tract, claiming the whole, is a possession of the uninclosed part, within the act against forcible entries. Ejectment 142 k 120(5) 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k118 Execution and Enforcement of Judgment 142k120 Writ of Possession 142k120(5) k. Execution and Return. Most Cited  Cases Where the lessee enters into part of the premises, while another, against whom the lessor has judgment, has possession of the other, the execution of the writ of possession inures to the benefit of the lessee;  and, though the lessor let such part to another, yet, if this lessee does not keep it, the possession will be with the first lessee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. John Bowman and Jesse Smith held a patent for five thousand acres of land, and executed a lease thereof to Vanhorne and wife, the plaintiffs in error, for their natural lives, reserving rent, with a privilege of enclosing and clearing thirty acres near their dwelling. They were not to commit waste, and were to see that others did not trespass on the land; and if such trespass or waste was made, they were to give notice of it to the lessors. In the lease was a reservation of all the land which Bowman and Smith had previously sold or leased, and a clause reserving the right of the lessors to sell or lease other parts of the tract, and thus determine, on that part, the lease of Vanhorne and wife, provided they left fifty acres, including the residence and improvements of Vanhorne. Previous to the execution of this lease, Bowman had obtained a judgment in ejectment, against sundry adverse claimants residing on the land included in the lease, but had not executed his writ of possession, and these adverse claimants then remained on the land. After the execution of this lease, he issued his writ of possession, and put these adverse claimants out. The holder of one of the tenements was not at home; but the sheriff removed his wife and family, and she contracted with Bowman's agent for a lease of a few days, which was given, and she returned to the possession. A few days afterwards, her husband went to the agent of Bowman, and took a lease for one year; but shortly afterwards surrendered this lease and moved away, leaving no person on the premises. Bowman's agent then executed a lease to another person, who surrendered it before he took possession, and the place still remained vacant. While in this situation, the present defendant in error entered as a tenant to, and claiming under one of the defendants in the ejectment, who had previously held it, and who had been evicted by the judgment. To remove him, this writ of forcible entry and detainer was brought by Vanhorne and wife, who, during all these events, were possessed under their lease. *2 On the trial thereof in the circuit court, the jury were instructed by that court, that unless Vanhorne and wife, after the delivery of the possession by the sheriff to Bowman, had made an actual entry upon the enclosure of the defendant in the warrant, they could not maintain this writ; and that, although they were actually residing and holding under the lease, on a different part of the land from the enclosure in controversy, they did not become possessed, so as to maintain this writ by virtue of the lease and the delivery of possession under the writ of possession, without an actual entry within the enclosure of the premises in contest. The instructions of the circuit court. The jury found for the defendants, and to reverse the judgment on account of these instructions, Vanhorne and wife have prosecuted this writ of error. (1.) We can not perceive any principle on which the instructions can be maintained. It has heretofore been determined by this court, that the actual residence on one part of a tract, claiming the whole, is such an actual possession of the land not enclosed, as comes within the meaning of the act which regulates these proceedings; and that an entry on any part, without the consent of such actual possessor, would subject the intruder to this remedy; and that the remedy was not restrained to actual sensible enclosures, but by the marked boundaries only. (1) The actual residence on one part of a tract, claiming the whole, is a possession of the unenclosed part, within the act against forcible entries. (2.) The lease of Vanhorne and wife included this land. It is true, they did not get the actual possession with the lease. It was then held by others. But when Bowman took the possession under his writ of habere?? facias possessionem, it inured to the benefit of his lessees, and his entry was as good as theirs would have been, as the possession was forthwith transferred by operation of law. And as Bowman and Smith had neither leased nor sold the land afterwards to any person who kept it, the actual possession still remained with Vanhorne and wife, and they alone were entitled to the writ; for it can not be supposed that the entry of Bowman under this writ of possession was foreign or adverse to their occupancy, and that they acquired nothing thereby, until they entered themselves. The instructions given, were, therefore, wholly erroneous. (2) Where the lessee enters into part of the premises, whilst another against whom the lessor has judgment, has possession of the other, the execution of the writ of possession inures to the benefit of the lessee; and though the lessor (as he had, by stipulation, a right to do) let such part to another, yet if this lessee do not keep it, the possession will be with the first lessee. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and directions given for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Bibb and Wilson, for plaintiffs. Ky.App. 1824. Vanhorne v. Tilley 1 T.B.Mon. 50, 17 Ky. 50, 1824 WL 1479 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
