(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 178,  19 Ky. 178 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1263 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Griggs v. Bondurant. Apr. 14, 1826. *1 Pleading. Warranty. Demand. ERROR TO THE CLARKE CIRCUIT; GEO. SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 147 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(B) Conveyance 400k147 k. Demand. Most Cited Cases Where a stipulation is for the execution of a deed, and nothing is said as to the demand, or when to be performed, no demand is necessary before suit. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The only question made in this cause, by a demurrer to the declaration, is, whether a special demand of a conveyance is necessary, before a breach, or an action can be maintained on a bond conditioned to convey a tract of land, wherein no particular time is mentioned, and where the conveyance is not expressly to be made on demand. Is a special demand of a conveyance for land necessary, where no time is fixed, and it is not expressed to be on demand? It is true, that one case is found, which makes a demand in such case necessary, in point of time and place.  Worley v. Mourning, 1 Bibb, 254. We have not the means of examining the record in that case, or we should be inclined to do so, on the suspicion that the covenant is not truly recited in the opinion published, or that some typographical error has occurred in the publication. If this was not the case, the opinion must have been improvidently rendered.FNa1 FNa1. I have looked into the record of the case. The covenant and declaration are substantially set out in the opinion published; so that the error was in the opinion. It may be said, from the record, it is not probable this question was debated; so palpable are the other errors, that no counsel could have hoped to have maintained the judgment, or gained anything by an argument of any point for defendant in error. [Reporter. Worley v. Mourning, 1 Bibb, 254, on this question is not law. For if we recur to the well known principles of the common law, before that decision, the rule is well settled, that where the stipulation is to do a transitory act, which can be performed any where, as the conveyance of a tract of land undoubtedly is, no demand was necessary, where the stipulation was not that the thing should be done on demand, and there was no time specified. Where the stipulation is to do a transitory act, as the execution of a deed of conveyance, nothing being said of demand, or when to be performed, no demand is necessary before suit. If we look at subsequent decisions, we find that the same common law principle is recognized, and admitted. Early after the decision alluded to, the case of Clay v. Houston's adm'r., 1 Bibb, 461, and Dunn and wife v. M'Millan, Ibid, 409, the case of Worley v. Mourning was dissented from, and the ancient rule adhered to, and such has been the rule followed in subsequent decisions; so that the new principle adopted in the latter case, was speedily corrected, and it was not allowed to have any effect. Nor are we now put to the necessity of deciding between two conflicting cases, or of overruling an opinion long undisturbed, because it conflicts with the law of the land; but are constrained to follow numerous cases and the law, as opposed to a solitary case, which has ever since been exploded. *2 So are all the ancient and modern cases, Worley and Mourning only excepted. This opinion agrees with the decision of the court below, and the judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Hanson for plaintiff; Allan for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Griggs v. Bondurant 3 T.B.Mon. 178, 19 Ky. 178, 1826 WL 1263 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
