(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 206,  17 Ky. 206 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1532 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hutchcraft and Wilson's Executors v. Shrout's Heirs. Dec. 15, 1824. *1 Guardian and Ward, Obligations, Sureties, Equity, Parties. ERROR TO THE BOURBON CIRCUIT; JAMES CLARK, JUDGE. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 105 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k102 Complainants 150k105 k. Joinder. Most Cited Cases Wards entitled to the same estate, which has not been divided, may join in a bill against their joint guardian and his sureties, who were all bound at the same time, and by the same instrument. Guardian and Ward 196 k 177 196 Guardian and Ward 196VIII Liabilities on Guardianship Bonds 196k177 k. Discharge of Sureties. Most Cited Cases Where two bonds have been given by a guardian, neither is a discharge of the other, and all the sureties remain liable to the whole amount for which the principal is bound. Guardian and Ward 196 k 182(4) 196 Guardian and Ward 196VIII Liabilities on Guardianship Bonds 196k182 Actions 196k182(4) k. Parties. Most Cited Cases Where two bonds have been given by a guardian, neither being a discharge of the other, all the sureties, together with the representatives of any that are deceased, must be made parties to a suit by the ward against his guardian and sureties. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. William Mitchell, in 1805, was appointed guardian of Rachel and Eleanor Shrout, then infants, and entered into and acknowledged his bond to secure said wards and indemnify the court, according to law, with George Wilson and James Mitchell as his sureties. In 1813, the sureties having applied to court for some redress against their principal, a new bond was executed by said Mitchell, with Thomas Hutchcraft his surety, in all respects like the first, conditioned to account for the estate which then was or might become due from him to said wards. In 1819, Rachel Shrout filed her bill against said William Mitchell and his sureties, George Wilson and James Mitchell, in the first bond, praying an account of her share of the estate, and a decree therefor. William Mitchell answered, admitting a sum in his hands. By an amended bill, she suggests her marriage, and states that the sureties, George Wilson and James Mitchell, had both departed this life, and makes the executor of George Wilson, party, and says nothing as to the representatives of James Mitchell. The executor answered, and alleges that his testator was released as surety by the last bond with Thomas Hutchcraft as surety, as before stated. In other amended bill, Eleanor Shrout, the remaining ward, and her husband, came in as co-complainants, and Hutchcraft is made defendant; and this bill alleges, that Hutchcraft became counter security for said George Wilson and James Mitchell, the first securities. None of the rest of the parties, except George Wilson's executors answered. On a final hearing, the court decided that the bond given by Hutchcraft, was a supplemental and additional bond only, and decreed the amount in the hands of the guardian to be paid by him and the executor of George Wilson and Hutchcraft, jointly; and to reverse this decree, this writ of error is prosecuted. *2 (1.) It is insisted that this bill will not lie against the securities, but only an action at law can be maintained against them. We think otherwise. Equity has always entertained jurisdiction between guardian and ward, and will compel the former to account with the latter, for the estate in his hands. If that sum is secured by bond and surety, we have no doubt that the jurisdiction as to the guardian, will draw with it the surety. It is more beneficial to the surety, that it should be so. He then has the opportunity of seeing that the account is correctly settled. If he was no party to the suit in chancery, and can only be sued at law after the account is settled, one of two inconveniences must follow; either he must be bound by the decree, to which he was not a party, and when the account might be settled erroneously, when sued at law; or, not having been party to the decree, he could not be bound at all, and could unravel the accounts in the action at law, and compel the ward to re-travel over the whole settlement. It is, therefore, better that he should be made a party at once, when he can see to his interest; and when the chancellor thus has possession of the matter, to avoid circuity of action or multiplicity of suits, he will decree the amount to be paid at once. (1) The sureties of a guardian may be joined with him in the bill of the ward for an account. (2.) It is insisted that these complainants can not join in the suit, but must bring their several suits. If it be conceded, that the action at law upon such bond must be several, it does not thence follow, that such wards could not join in a suit in equity, to demand a settlement and payment from their guardian, who has undertaken for both at the same time and by the same instrument. It is true, that when estates are distributed from the hands of the personal representative to the distributee, or his guardian, in case of his minority, it may be supposed that distribution has taken place; that the guardian has received for each his separate share, and of course may be liable to such in a separate proceeding. This, however, is not always the case, and the payment, in case of joint distributees, may be made to their joint guardian, in one entire and undivided sum; and although neither the bill nor answer is explicit on this point, yet there is no allegation of any previous division or distribution of the fund, before its payment to the guardian; and as both the wards were children of the same decedent, and entitled to the same estate, the presumption is strong, that the guardian received it undivided, and that the division is still to be made. We need not, therefore, enquire whether they could join, if the estate had been previously divided, as we conceive that they certainly can join, when the estate never was divided, and that this exception can not prevail. (2) Two wards, entitled to the same estate, which had not been divided, may join in a bill against their joint guardian and his securities in the same instrument. *3 Quere--If the estate had been divided, and as to their joining in an action at law in any case. (3.) There seems to be a contest between these sureties, about their liability. The executor of Wilson, one of the sureties in the first bond, contends that the last bond is an exoneration of the sureties in the first, while the last surety would seem to insist upon the first bearing all. With the court below, we do not deem the last bond to be given as counter security; for then it would have bound the last surety to indemnify the first, and it is only an additional bond for the whole amount, and not to make good the defalcations which might fall on the first; so that neither bond is a discharge of the other, and all the sureties must remain liable to the whole amount for which their principal is bound. (3) Where a second bond of the guardian is in the same terms as the first (not to indemnify the sureties in the first), it is not to be regarded as a counter bond, but as additional to the first, and the securities in both are equally bound to the ward, to the full extent of the guardian's liability. (4.) It is, however, contended, that the representatives of James Mitchell, one of the sureties in the first bond, ought to have been brought before the court, and that the complainants, while pursuing sureties, were not at liberty to select such as suited them, and omit the rest. This exception to the proceeding is well taken. If Wilson's representatives are liable, in case of a failure of their principal, they would be entitled to contribution against the representatives of James Mitchell; and if so, the matter ought to be parties; for, otherwise, they would not be bound by the decree in this cause, and the representatives of Wilson, would in a proceeding to enforce such contribution, be bound to prove their demand anew, as a matter not adjudicated, and thus the benefit of the decree in this cause would be lost to them. (4) In a bill by a ward against his guardian and securities, all, even the representatives of one dead, must be made defendants. (5.) The same may be said with regard to Hutchcraft; for although he is bound in a separate bond, and is not united with the other sureties, and might not be supposed to have trusted to them, to make good any part of his liability, yet he is bound for the same person and for the same thing, and although there may appear to be no privity in law, between him and the others, yet equity, which delights in equality, will generally in such case, equalize the burthen, to the extent of their identity of obligation, and here the undertaking of each appears to be precisely the same. The representatives ?? James Mitchell ought, therefore, to have been made ??arties. (5) Where an additional bond has been given by the guardian, the surety in that must be joined; for they are all equally bound, and equity will burthen upon them. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, ??d the cause be remanded with directions to the court ??low to dismiss the bill without prejudice to any fu??re suit for the same cause, unless the complainants ??all amend their bill, and bring the representatives of ??mes Mitchell before the court, in a reasonable time ??ven for that purpose, or shall show good reasons why ?? cannot be done. Bibb, for plaintiffs; Wickliffe, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Hutchcraft v. Shrout's Heirs 1 T.B.Mon. 206, 17 Ky. 206, 1824 WL 1532 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 100 END OF DOCUMENT
