(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 613,  10 Ky. 613 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1188 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Morgan's Devisees v. Gains & Marshall. Oct. 3, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 433 409 Wills 409V Probate or Contest of Will 409V(R) Operation and Effect 409k433 k. Admissibility, as Evidence, of Will or Proofs, or  of Record or Exemplified Copy Thereof. Most Cited Cases Where a will was proved in Virginia before the separation of Kentucky from her, it may be admitted in evidence in Kentucky without further probate. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The only question presented for the decision of this court, in this cause, arises out of the rejection of a will offered in evidence by the appellants, who were plaintiffs below. This will is dated on the 9th September, 1788, and after the death of the testator it was duly proved and admitted to record on the 21st October, 1788, in the court of Berkley county, Virginia, where the testator resided. The copy adduced was certified by the clerk with the seal of the court annexed, and then followed the usual certificate of the presiding justice. The court excluded this copy because it did not appear that a copy, or the original will, had ever been admitted to record by the proper court in the state of Kentucky. Authenticated copies of wills given in evidence to prove title to real estate, which had been proved in the courts of the sister states, when such courts had no authority to take the probate as to real estate, have been rejected by this court; but in no instance, within the recollection of the court, has a will been rejected, when the probate was made before a tribunal of competent authority. Whether such wills as are last described, proved in other states, can or can not be admitted as evidence here, need not be now decided. It must, in this instance, have escaped the attention of the court below, that this will was proven and recorded in Virginia before the separation of this state from that, and that the laws of that day are our own laws, and that this will, as to us, is not a foreign will, but one, the probate of which is not impaired by the separation, and ought to be allowed to join evidence as a will proved here since that period. A will proved in a sister state, should not be given in evidence to shew title without probate here, but if such will is proved in Virginia, before a court of competent jurisdiction, before the separation, it is evidence without farther probate. The judgment must be reversed with costs and the cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Wickliffe, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1821. Morgan's Devisees v. Gaines 3 A.K.Marsh. 613, 10 Ky. 613, 1821 WL 1188 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
