(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 352,  10 Ky. 352 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1089 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Jones v. Benj'n South's Adm'r. Apr. 18, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE BATH CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 461(5) 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(B) Jurisdiction and Proceedings 228k461 Evidence 228k461(5) k. Sufficiency as to Fraud, Perjury, Collusion,  or Other Misconduct. Most Cited Cases Equity will not interfere, on the ground that a judgment at law was obtained by fraud, unless the fraud is clearly proved. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an injunction granted by the circuit court, praying relief against a judgment at law for twenty-five dollars, rendered by a justice of the peace, which injunction was perpetuated. It is now contended by the defendant below, now plaintiff in error that the court below had no jurisdiction of the case. We do not conceive that the act of assembly, increasing and regulating the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, from five pounds to fifty dollars, transferred to them more than the exclusive jurisdiction at law, and that the power to judge of defences and causes, purely equitable was not delegated to them by the terms of the act. Courts or suits in equity are not generally construed to be within the words of a statute, unless expressly included, although they generally follow the law. The settlement of the accounts of executors, administrators, guardians and trusts, would pass into the hands of justices of the peace, where the sum or balance due was under fifty dollars, if a different construction was adopted, and temporary injunctions and rescission of contracts as well as the specific execution of them must also become subjects of jurisdiction before justices of the peace or the parties lose the benefit of these remedies entirely, if the acts in question were construed to take away the jurisdiction of courts of equity over sums between five pounds and fifty dollars. We therefore conceive that jurisdiction was rightly entertained by the court below. The act increasing magistrate's jurisdiction, does not diminish the powers of the chancellor, or confer upon justices of the peace a power to decide on equitable defenses. The complainant, however, asks relief on the ground that the contract, on which he was condemned by the justice to pay the money, was a conditional one, and the payment was to depend on a certain contingency which had not happened, and which he could have made appear before the justice who tried the cause, but that the constable deceived him by returning the warrant at a different time and place and before a different justice from him before whom he was summoned, of which he had no notice, whereby he was surprised and prevented from making his defense, or praying an appeal till it was too late. Where a defense is purely legal, and application is made to the chancellor for relief because of trick in procuring the judgment, that trick must be made out very plainly to justify an interference. *2 On the subject, whether the contract was conditional or absolute, the evidence is somewhat contradictory, and we have not thought it necessary to determine that matter. For as the defense was purely legal, it was incumbent on the plaintiff below not only to make out a good defense, but to show the surprise and trial complained of clearly, which he has failed to do. We cannot say that he was prevented from making his defense before the proper tribunal, had he with reasonable diligence attended to it. The decree of the court below is therefore deemed erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, and directions given to the court below there to dissolve the injunction and dismiss the bill with damages and costs. Bibb for plaintiff in error. Ky.App. 1821. Jones v. South's Adm'rs 3 A.K.Marsh. 352, 10 Ky. 352, 1821 WL 1089 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
