(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 173,  20 Ky. 173 (Ky.),  1827 WL 2606 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Whittington &c. v. Roberts. Jan. 31, 1826. *1 Pleading. Payment. Allegation and Proof. Jurisdiction. Equity. Statutes. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Payment 294 k 7 294 Payment 294I Requisites and Sufficiency 294k7 k. Time for Payment. Most Cited Cases Payment after the day may be relied on and enforced in equity. Payment 294 k 63(1) 294 Payment 294IV Proceedings to Establish Payment 294k63 Issues, Proof, and Variance 294k63(1) k. Issues and Evidence Admissible Under Pleadings  in General. Most Cited Cases Under a plea of payment, the defendant may prove an agreement on the part of the payee to apply a sum in his hands, belonging to the defendant, in discharge of the debt. Equity 150 k 345 150 Equity 150V Evidence 150k338 Answer as Evidence 150k345 k. Evidence to Overcome Answer. Most Cited  Cases An answer meeting the allegations of the bill upon information and belief does not fall within the rule requiring two witnesses to prevail against it. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] The complainant exhibited his bill to be relieved against a judgment at law, founded on a note executed by him to Francis Jones, who assigned it to Whittington, alleging that after he had given the note, and after it was due to Jones, he sold Jones a negro slave, and it was agreed, at the time of sale, between him and Jones, that the amount of the note should be discounted out of the price of the slave, but the note not being present he did not take it up, and Jones afterwards lost the note by gaming with Whittington, to whom he assigned it. That Whittington brought a warrant for the demand on the note and before the justice of the peace he proved the agreement to discount the note by Jones, and the justice before whom it was tried, gave judgment for him, from which Whittington appealed--and he sent word to Jones to attend to the cause for him in the circuit court, but Jones failed to do it, and consequently judgment was rendered against him by default. He prayed for and obtained an injunction. Roberts' bill. Whittington in his answer states that another person was indebted to him, and to discharge it, Jones assigned him the note, and denies that the note was paid by part of the price of a negro, and insists, if it was, the payment was made after the assignment, and notice thereof. Whittington's answer. Jones introduced as a witness for the complainant, proves that the note was to be discounted in part of the price of a slave sold; or rather deposes that the complainant paid him the amount of the note and he executed a receipt therefor, before the assignment, not explicitly stating that it was part price of the negro. *2 Jones' testimony. The court perpetuated the injunction, and to reverse that decree the writ of error is prosecuted. Decree perpetuating the injunction. Taking the testimony of Jones as true, there can not be any doubt, that the demand was discharged before assignment. Nor can the rule that two witnessess are necessary, or at least one with corroborating circumstances, shield the defendant below from this conclusion. For that rule only applies to the positive denial of a defendant in an answer to facts coming within his own knowledge, and not a denial of facts not within his knowledge, but founded on information and belief only. Two witnesses are necessary against an answer, only where the facts are in respondent's knowledge, and he answers positively. It is contended that the relief in equity can not be granted because the mode of discharging the demand was not a direct payment, but rather an accord and satisfaction, which ought to have been pleaded at law, and, therefore, can not be relied on in a court of equity--or, Secondly, if it be a payment it ought to have been pleaded at law. The first objection rests on the inquiry, whether this discharge of the note by part of the price of a negro could have been given in evidence under a plea of payment at law. It is true that payment literally means a discharge of the obligation according to its letter. But courts have extended the issue more to the spirit, and have not confined it to the letter. Hence Starkie in his treatise on evidence, vol. 3, p. 1084, lays down the rule that the payment must be proved in money or its equivalent. What shall be counted an equivalent may often be a question of some nicety. Bills of exchange, bank notes, or negotiable notes on individuals, have been held good proof under the plea of payment. But there must be an agreement to accept them as such, 1 John. 34, 10 John. 104. If such articles with an agreement to accept them as payment may be given in evidence, certainly a sum of money already in the hands of the payee, and due from him to the payor, might by agreement be discounted as payment. It was certainly unnecessary for the parties to go through the idle ceremony of the payee handing the money to the obligor, and he handing it directly back, to discharge their respective obligations. It was competent for them to discharge both by agreeing that the money should remain where it was, and no more was necessary in this case. Under the plea of payment defendant may prove a discharge in Bank notes, negotiable notes on individuals, or a debt already due from the payee to the payor, delivered and accepted, or discounted as payment. As to the second objection to the jurisdiction of the chancellor to enforce an entire payment by decree, where the party has failed to make the plea at law, it is readily conceded as a general rule, that a bill for that purpose ought not to be sustained. But there are two kinds of pleas of payment, well known to the books--payment at the day--and payment after the day. The first can not be relied on, or enforced by bill in equity. Such is the doctrine held by this court in the case of  McConnell's Adm'rs, v. Ficklin, 4 Bibb 414, cited at bar in the argument of this case against the relief prayed. But the rule with regard to payment after the day is different, as was well contended in argument by the opposite counsel. Payment after the day was a plea unknown to the common law, and could not there be made. Then the only relief was an application to the chancellor to enforce the plea. A statute afterwards tolerated the plea, and allowed it to be made at law. But this statute did not expressly oust the chancellor of his jurisdiction over the matter, and it has never been held that where a court of equity had jurisdiction, a statute authorizing a court of law to adjudicate on the same matter, ousted the courts of equity; but afterwards the two jurisdictions have been held concurrent, and that litigants have their election to apply to either. This principle must sustain this bill. For it shows distinctly that the payment relied on was made after the day. *3 Payment in full at the day can not be relied on in equity, after judgment. --Otherwise of payment after the day, for it could not be pleaded at Common law, and the statute which allowed it does not affect the jurisdiction of equity. The decree must, therefore, be affirmed with cost. Triplett, for plaintiff; Monroe, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Whittington v. Roberts 4 T.B.Mon. 173, 20 Ky. 173, 1827 WL 2606 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
