(Cite as: 5 Litt. 326,  15 Ky. 326 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1443 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Talbot v. Morton, &c. Jun. 9, 1824. *1 MOTION TO DISMISS AN APPEAL, FOR WANT OF A SUFFICIENT BOND. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 383 30 Appeal and Error 30VII Transfer of Cause 30VII(C) Payment of Fees or Costs, and Bonds or Other Securities 30k383 k. Conditions of Bond or Undertaking. Most Cited  Cases Appeal bonds must be conditioned for the payment of the amount of the judgment below. Appeal and Error 30 k 383 30 Appeal and Error 30VII Transfer of Cause 30VII(C) Payment of Fees or Costs, and Bonds or Other Securities 30k383 k. Conditions of Bond or Undertaking. Most Cited  Cases A debt being secured by an injunction bond, if an appeal is taken from the decree dissolving the injunction, and a bond is given to secure the damages and costs decreed, and such as may be awarded by the court of appeals, it is sufficient. Appeal and Error 30 k 1234(2) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVIII Liabilities on Bonds and Undertakings 30k1234 Extent of Liability 30k1234(2) k. Bonds on Appeal from Orders Dissolving or  Denying Injunction. Most Cited Cases When an appeal is taken from a decree of foreclosure which also dissolves an injunction restraining the collection of the debt for which the mortgage was given, the obligors on the appeal bond are not liable for the mortgage debt, but only for damages and costs. TALBOT and CRITTENDEN for appellant; BARRY and BIBB for appellees. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The appellee filed his bill to foreclose a mortgage given to secure the purchase money for a house and lot, and also obtained judgment at law on notes for the same demand. The appellant answered, resisting the mortgage, and by an answer in the nature of a cross bill, sought to rescind the contract, and obtained an injunction on the judgments at law. The court, on final hearing, dissolved the injunction, but without damages, and allowed the appellant part of the costs of the chancery suit, to be set-off against some costs recovered by the appellee, and enforced the mortgage by decreeing that if the appellee did not pay the amount due by the judgments, before a certain day, the estate should be sold by commissioners. If an injunction is dissolved, and the decree is appealed from, the injunction is thereby kept in existence. The debt being secured by the injunction bond if an appeal is taken from the decree which dissolves the injunction, and a bond and security is given to secure the damages and costs decreed, and such as may be awarded by the court of appeals, it is sufficient. The court permitted the appellant to appeal, on giving bond with security, in a penalty wholly insufficient to cover the judgments at law, which had been enjoined, and only adequate to secure the decree for costs, and the costs and damages which might be awarded, in case of affirmance in this court. The appellee excepted, and has now moved to dismiss the appeal, because the bond is not sufficient to secure the whole amount of the judgments at law. *2 As the motion involves a point of practice not heretofore settled, we feel ourselves bound to deliver an opinion at length. Although there is an injunction, which was dissolved, yet we do not deem it incumbent on the appellant to give bond with security, in a penalty sufficient to cover the original debt enjoined. This is secured by the injunction bond, and the appeal suspends the dissolution and keeps the injunction in existence. The statute requires a bond conditioned for the due prosecution of the appeal, and to comply with it this court has determined that the bond must secure the amount of the judgment or decree appealed from, and all costs and damages, or any sum that may be awarded in this court, in case the judgment is affirmed or the appeal dismissed, or the appellant is otherwise unsuccessful. What judgment or decree, then, is appealed from, in case an injunction is dissolved? Certainly not the judgment enjoined. Errors at law therein are released and the day of the appeal as to that, is long past. The decree, then, which dissolves the injunction and dismisses the bill is alone intended to be secured, and the future decree in this court on the same controversy. This satisfies the law. If damages and costs are given below, by that decree, they must be secured, and the damages on the damages and costs, which may be given in this court, if there is here an unsuccessful termination of the suit. On this ground, then, the bond is sufficient. There being a decree of foreclosure and sale of mortgaged estate, does not alter the condition of the bond. The statute requires that the bond must secure the amount of the judgment or decree appealed from. But there is also a decree of foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged premises, and it is insisted that this is virtually a decree for the money due on the mortgage, and that amount ought to be secured. We think differently. Such proceedings on a mortgage are properly proceedings in rem, and not in personam, and are brought to subject the mortgaged estate, and against it this decree is rendered. It cannot be contemplated by law, that the bond should secure this real estate or its value, or that accidents of fire and destruction of the estate are to be provided for in the bond; and this decree is not for the money to which the estate is subjected. Indeed it is yet to be decided in this country, whether on a bill to subject mortgaged premises, the complainant can get a decree for the amount, and have execution thereon, or whether, if the mortgaged estate falls short of the debt, the complainant can have a decree and execution for the balance, or whether he is not in every such instance, bound to resort to his remedy at law. We need not now decide how the law is on this point; for, whichever way it may be, this decree is a simple enforcement of the lien against the estate, without a decree for any sum, and therefore, as the estate itself is not to be secured, no greater security is required, than what is already given. *3 The objections, therefore, made to this bond, are untenable, and the motion must be overruled. Ky.App. 1824. Talbot v. Morton 5 Litt. 326, 15 Ky. 326, 1824 WL 1443 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
