(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 292,  10 Ky. 292 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1064 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Frankfort Bank v. William Hunter. Apr. 10, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Assignments 38 k 41 38 Assignments 38II Mode and Sufficiency of Assignment 38k40 Assignments in Writing 38k41 k. Form and Contents. Most Cited  Cases Any words which show an intent in the holder to part with an assignable chose in action vests the title in the assignee. Bills and Notes 56 k 183 56 Bills and Notes 56VII Transfer 56VII(A) By Indorsement 56k183 k. Formal Requisites. Most Cited Cases The indorsement on a note of the words "Pay to A.," or "Pay to A. or order," signed by the payee, is sufficient to constitute an assignment of the note to A. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an action by the bank against the maker of a note, which had been transferred from the payee by two assignments to the bank, both of which read as follows: "Pay to Alexander May or order. RICHARD TAYLOR." "Pay to the president, directors and company of the Frankfort Bank. ALEXANDER MAY." These assignments were endorsed on the note, and the sole question is, are they sufficient in their terms to pass the legal title to the note, so as to authorize the bank to sue in its corporate name? If this paper is considered under the act establishing the bank, which places such writings, when discounted, on the footing of foreign bills of exchange, the endorsements, similar to those usually made on bills of exchange, are sufficient to pass the legal title. If we consider it, under an act of assembly authorizing notes to be negotiated by assignment, (which is the act which in fact governs the case), we still conceive the assignment sufficient. The act prescribes no set form of words. Any expressions which in substance shew that the holder intended to part with the paper, and which vests the assignee with the title to its contents, ought to be deemed sufficient to authorize suit in the name of the assignee. The expressions used in the present case make no reservation, and passed the paper. The court below, therefore, did right in overruling the defendant's demurrer. No set form of words is necessary in the assignment of an assignable note; any words which shew an intent in the holder to part with it, vests the assignee with the right to it. The decision must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1821. Frankfort Bank v. Hunter 3 A.K.Marsh. 292, 10 Ky. 292, 1821 WL 1064 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
