(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 345,  19 Ky. 345 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1311 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Postletwait v. Garrett. Oct. 19, 1826. *1 Assignor and Assignee. Sheriff's Return. Usury. Statutes. APPEAL FROM THE CLARKE CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Usury 398 k 88 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(A) Nature and Validity 398k88 k. Purging Contract of Usury. Most Cited  Cases If the usury be deducted, and new securities taken, they are valid, though the lender retains the money before received as usury on the original loan. Usury 398 k 88 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(A) Nature and Validity 398k88 k. Purging Contract of Usury. Most Cited  Cases If the original transaction is usurious, it remains so, however the demand may be divided into different securities, written and parol. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the facts. In the year 1814 or 1815, Ashton Garrett, the appellee, loaned to Lewis Sanders $14,000; and to secure the return thereof, it was agreed that the said sum should be divided into two notes of $5,000 each, and one of four thousand, and that on each of these, a different set of endorsers should be procured, to whom the notes should be made payable, and they were to endorse the notes to Garrett. Accordingly, on the note for $4,000, the present appellants became the endorsers, and it was made payable at the end of sixty days, at which time Garrett was at liberty to coerce the restoration of the money, or reloan it. It was, also, agreed that Sanders should pay to Garrett interest, at the rate of twelve per cent. per annum. But this agreement was not expressed in the note on otherwise written between the parties. At the first, second, and perhaps the third period of sixty days, Sanders paid up the stipulated interest. Garrett surrendered the note which he held, and took a new note at each time for sixty days more, on a reloan of the money. Usurious contract. After this, Garrett expressed his determination to purge the transaction, and refused any further loan for usury, and refused to take more than legal interest on the sum originally lent. Accordingly two or three renewals took place at six per cent. per annum only, and the forbearance was given and the loan continued at that rate alone. Purging the transaction of usury. Sanders at length failed, and Garrett brought suit against him and pursued him unsuccessfully to insolvency and then brought his action against the endorsers or assignors to the note, and they, in their defense, relied on the usury attending the original loan. But a verdict and judgment having been rendered against them, they have appealed to this court. Judgment against Saunders. After the plaintiff below had given in evidence the note with its assignments, and also, the record of his suit against Sanders, the defendants moved the court to instruct the jury as in case of a non suit, which instruction the court refused to give and the defendants, now appellants, excepted. *2 Motion for non suit overruled. We do not perceive any variance or deficiency in the proof to support the declaration which could warrant this instruction. The appellee appears to have pursued Sanders, the maker of the note, with that due and reasonable diligence required by law, in such cases. The only defect pointed out to us in the argument, is in the return of the sheriff on the fieri facias, against Sanders, on which the sheriff returned that he found no goods out of which he could make the debt, or any part thereof, instead of no estate. It is, therefore, insisted that Sanders, from anything apparent in this return, might have had a sufficiency of real estate. This is an error in the officer, over which the appellee had no control, and it is not yet definitely settled, by any decisions within our recollection, how far the acts and errors of the officers of justice ought to go in destroying the recourse of the assignee against the assignor. Query--Whether the sheriff's return on the fi. fa. against the obligor being no goods, instead of no estate, will effect the recourse of assignee on assignor. It would seem reasonable that the negligence of the officer should be so great, as to present a clear case of recourse against him for the debt. Effect of the negligence of the officers of justice in the case of assignee against obligor in the suit against assignor. But we need not settle this question; for immediately after the return of the fieri facias, Garrett issued his capias ad satisfaciendum, on which the body of Sanders was taken and committed to prison. This would, no doubt have secured the surrender of the real estate, if any he had before his release. But the appellants themselves have given the strongest evidence that there was no such estate of any kind, which the ca. sa. could draw from Sanders. For in about six weeks or less after the arrest of Sanders, the appellants signed a writing consenting to his release, and agreeing to waive all advantage to themselves which might result from his confinement, and to remain as much bound as his endorsers, as they would have been if Sanders had been discharged by due course of law. This we conceive furnishes prima facie evidence, as strong as the return of the officer could be, that Sanders had no estate out of which the money could be made, and imposed upon the defendants the necessity of showing that he had available estate, out of which the debt could have been satisfied. Agreement of the assignor, that obligor imprisoned on ca. sa. on assignee's judgment might be discharged, and that assignor should remain as far bound, as if the discharge was by course of law, cures the objection, if available, that on the previous fi. fa. the return was "no goods," instead of no estate found. The remaining question in the cause arises out of the refusal of the court below to instruct the jury that the usury reserved in the original loan destroyed the plaintiff's right of recovery, the court being of opinion that the original transaction might be, and was in fact, purged of the usury, and of course that the plaintiff below had a right to recover. *3 The date of this transaction was previous to the statute which makes such debts recoverable with legal interest deducting the usury only, and at a time when the act of Assembly declared all loans and contracts on which a greater interest than six per cent. was reserved to be literally void, and of course the decision on this case must conform to that act. Statutes on usury. It will be readily conceded as formerly held by thi?? court, that the act went to the original contract, and that however the contract might be divided into different securities, part written and part verbal, still the whole would be void, and no doubt can be entertained that the first loan of this money, in which twelve per centum per annum was reserved by parol, could not have been coerced in a court of law. If the original transaction be usurious it so remains, however the demand may be divided into different securities written and parol-- But it seems agreed among all the authorities, that a usurious transaction may be cleansed of the usury, and a new contract can be made free from usury, which will be legal and valid. It then only remains to ascertain, whether the cleansing here applied, is a sufficient one. We concur with the court below, that it is. We view the two or three last loans and renewals at the rate of legal interest only, as so many new loans, and new contracts, binding Sanders to restore only the sum actually received by him, with legal interest, and such as admits not of the defense of the plea of usury, whatever claims Sanders may have upon Garrett for sums on former loans paid for usury. --But if the usury be deducted and new securities taken they are valid. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with damages and costs. Bibb and Haggin, for appellant; Wickliffe and Crittenden, for appellee. Ky.App. 1826. Postlethwait v. Garrett 3 T.B.Mon. 345, 19 Ky. 345, 1826 WL 1311 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
