(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 381,  19 Ky. 381 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1321 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Davis v. Young.--(Three cases.) Oct. 23, 1826. *1 Consideration. Pleadings. Allegation and Proof. Practice. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 174(4) 231 Justices of the Peace 231V Review of Proceedings 231V(A) Appeal and Error 231k170 Trial of Cause Anew 231k174 Proceedings Relating to Parties, Process, and  Pleading 231k174(4) k. Necessity of new pleadings. Most  Cited Cases It is not necessary to file an affidavit, on appeal from a justice, to a plea that impeaches the consideration of a note. Pleading 302 k 372 302 Pleading 302XVII Issues, Proof, and Variance 302k372 k. Scope of issues of fact. Most Cited Cases If, where there is no declaration, the defendant voluntarily plead in writing, he will be confined to the issue on his plea. Bills and Notes 56 k 485 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k472 Plea, Answer, or Affidavit of Defense 56k485 k. Verification. Most Cited Cases In actions on notes above L5, and not exceeding $50, pleas impeaching the consideration need not be verified. Bills and Notes 56 k 489(7) 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k489 Issues, Proof, and Variance 56k489(7) k. Variance. Most Cited Cases A plea of no consideration and that the note was voluntary is not supported by proof that there was a consideration fraudulently represented by the obligee, and supposed by the obligor to be good, but which proved to be of no value. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 24 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(A) Discovery in General 307Ak24 k. Discovery methods and procedure. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 127k28  Discovery) Under the statute which authorizes the court to make any order necessary to insure a fair trial, the court may compel either party to disclose to his adversary his demand or defense, and the evidence will be directed accordingly. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. These three cases are three warrants brought before a justice of the peace, on three notes of fifty dollars each, executed by Young, the defendant in error, to Thomas Triplett, and by him assigned to Davis, the now plaintiff in error. And as the three notes were given for different instalments of the same contract, and for the same consideration, and admit of the same defence, and the same defence was in fact made in the court below, all the cases may be considered in one opinion, and the judgments in each, be rendered in this court accordingly. Cases of three warrants before the justice, on notes given on the same contract, to which the same defence being made, are considered together. The justice of the peace rendered judgments against each note, whereupon Davis appealed to the circuit court, pursuant to acts of assembly increasing the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, from five pounds to fifty dollars. *2 Judgments of the justice for the defendant. In the circuit court, Young put in a special plea to each note, alleging that each was given for no consideration good or valuable, but was voluntary. To these pleas, replications were filed, traversing the pleas, and forming an issue in a formal manner. Pleas in writing that the notes were given for no consideration good or valuable, but were voluntary. On the trial, the defendant in error introduced proof, conducing to shew that the notes were executed by him to Triplett, the payee and assignor, for a tract of land sold and conveyed by deed of quit claim from Triplett to him, and that the title which Triplett held, was derived from a sheriff's sale by execution against William Barnaby Sears, the patentee; and that when the sheriff's sale was made, and long before, Sears, the defendant in the execution, was dead; and that fact was known to Triplett when he purchased under the execution, and that he had concealed this fact, when he sold to Young, who was ignorant of it, and by representing the title derived from the sheriff to be good, had induced Young to take the conveyance for which these notes were given, without recourse. This evidence was objected to as inadmissible and irrelevant. But the court below overruled the objection, and admitted the evidence, and the plaintiff in error excepted, and verdict and judgments having been rendered against him, he has brought the causes to this court by writ of error. Evidence conducing to prove a fraud in the consideration objected to by plaintiff, but admitted and bill of exception, and verdict and judgment for defendant. It is here insisted, that the admission of this evidence was improper, because the consideration of such notes under seal, could not be impeached by plea at common law, until the Act of Assembly of 1801, 1 Dig. L. K. 257, toerating such pleas; and that as the act of 1815, 1 Dig. L. K. 265, requires such pleas to be supported by affidavit, and there was no plea in this case which accorded with the evidence supported by affidavit, the defence was inadmissible. This argument is attempted to be upheld by analogy to the plea of non est factum, which was required to be sworn to, before the jurisdiction of justices of the peace was increased, and that such a defence must be supported by oath ever since these acts were passed. No affidavit is necessary to impeach or go into the consideration of a note above five pounds and not exceeding fifty dollars. This argument might be considered as conclusive against the admission of this evidence, if the act which requires pleas impeaching the consideration to be supported by oath, had passed previous to the acts increasing the jurisdiction of justices of the peace. But the act of 1801, which first admitted such pleas, did not require them to be sworn to, and no such oath was required till the year 1815. In the meantime, by acts of 1811 and 1812, the jurisdiction of justices was enlarged, and one of the acts on this subjuct, contains a provision declaring it shall not be necessary for the plaintiff in the warrant to file a declaration, nor shall the parties be bound to any particular formalities in pleading or otherwise, provided that the circuit courts on appeals to them, may make such orders as they shell deem necessary for a fair and speedy trial of the cause on its merits. *3 The practical construction of this provision ever since, has been, that all pleadings in writing in technical form, were dispensed with in the circuit courts, on appeals from justices of the peace. It is then evident, that from the date of this provision in 1812, till the passage of the act in 1815, requiring an oath to such pleas, it was not necessary for a defendant against such notes on appeals to file a plea impeaching the consideration of the note, supported by oath or affirmation. The question then brings itself down to the construction of the act of 1815, requiring the oath to such plea; if it has made such requisition as to notes tried in the circuit courts on appeals from justices of the peace, then such oath was necessary in these cases; if it has not done so, then these and all such cases are left to be tried without pleas impeaching the consideration by oath, as they were before the act which required the plea and the oath. This latter act does not add the necessity of a special plea in any case where it was unnecessary before, but simply provides that where the defendant shall, by special plea, in any action founded on a note, pursuant to the act of 1801, impeach o?? go into the consideration, he shall support the truth of such plea by oath or affirmation, and of course, as such plea was then unnecessary on appeals, the act does not apply, and such cases remain as before, and all defendants against notes above five pounds, and not exceeding fifty dollars, are a privileged class, exempt from supporting such pleas by oath. But it is further insisted, that as the defendant below in these cases did file a special plea impeaching the notes, he ought to have been bound by it, and not to have been permitted to give evidence supporting a different plea, which here was done. Plea of no consideration, and that the note was voluntary, is not supported by proof, that there was a consideration fraudulently represented by obligee, and supposed by obligor be good, but which turned out at the time, to to be colorable only. We will here remark, that the pleas in these cases were supported by affidavit, and the foregoing reasoning is predicated upon the fact of these pleas not setting forth matter which the evidence offered could support, which we readily concede. For certainly, pleas which alleged that the notes were given for no good and valuable consideration, but were voluntary, could not let in proof going to shew that there was a consideration supposed to be good at the time, by the maker of the notes, and which, on examination, turned out to be colorable only, or of no value, or had subsequently failed. Although a declaration and subsequent pleadings are dispensed with by the act, yet they are not forbidden, and it is competent for the plaintiff in the warrant, to file a declaration, and the defendant his pleas, and the plaintiff to reply, and so on till the issue is formed, if the parties so choose. And if they were to do so, it would be most consonant to the principles of law, that the parties should be compelled to keep their evidence within such issue, than to permit either to surprise the other by traveling out of it and introducing different matter. *4 If, on an appeal to the circuit court, the plaintiff declare and the issue be made up in writing, the evidence must be confined to it. Add to this, that the act of assembly which dispenses with pleading, contains an exception by way of proviso, which authorizes the court to make any order necessary to insure a fair trial. Now, as the object of this is to secure a fair trial, it must be such orders as are necessary to guard against surprise; and we can not doubt, that the court to which such appeal is taken, may, under this authority, compel either party to disclose to his adversary by written statements, the points on which he means to rely; and if he should make this disclosure, we conceive he would be bound by it, and compelled to keep within it, in adducing his proof. For the purpose of a fair trial, the court may compel either party to disclose to his adversary, his demand or defence, and afterwards the evidence will be confined accordingly. If we are right in this, it is easy to perceive why the parties should not be subject to the same restrictions, where they have done voluntarily, as in these causes, what the court might have compelled them to do on the application of either. As the party then had here filed his pleas, to which his adversary had replied on his part, it can not be construed less than an undertaking by each to abide by the grounds which they had taken, and that they ought to have been restricted to it, and consequently the evidence did not support the ground on which the defendant below had engaged to rely, and his evidence ought, for this cause, to have been excluded. If, where there is no declaration, defendant voluntary plead in writing, he will be confined to the issue on his plea. Each case must, therefore, be reversed with cost, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiff; Monroe, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Davis v. Young 3 T.B.Mon. 381, 19 Ky. 381, 1826 WL 1321 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
