(Cite as: 4 Litt. 137,  14 Ky. 137 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1238 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Read v. Cisney. Oct. 14, 1823. *1 FROM THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. B. SHACKLEFORD SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 217(2) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k217 Effect of Demurrer as Opening Record 302k217(2) k. Demurrer to Plea, Answer, or Cross-Petition.  Most Cited Cases A demurrer to the answer brings into review the sufficiency of the petition or complaint. Contracts 95 k 335(1) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k335 Performance by Plaintiff 95k335(1) k. Necessity of Alleging Performance. Most  Cited Cases Performance and excuse for nonperformance of a condition precedent are matters of law, and therefore the facts ought to be set forth in pleading. CRITTENDEN for Cisney; no attorney for Read. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of covenant, brought on an instrument of writing to the following effect: Assignment of breaches in an action of covenant, held sufficient. A setting forth of a condition precedent, held defective. "Memorandum of an agreement made between Dudley Read of the one part, and Robert Cisney of the other part: Whereas Robert Cisney sets in with Dudley Read on the 25th of (this) instant, to make a crop. The said Read finds two hands and all the farming FALL TERM, 1823. tools, and all the horses and horse feed and finds the said Cisney his board, when working at the home place; but the said Cisney finds his own board, when working at the other place. And the said Cisney is to pay due attention to carry on the farm, till the crop is made and duly taken care of. And the said Cisney, in so doing, is to have one-fourth of all that they make; and the said Cisney is to have one-fourth of the wheat that is now growing; and the said Cisney is to help put in as much wheat as is now growing, next September; and the said Read is to give the said Cisney, ten dollars in the bargain." Performance, and excuse for non-performance of a condition precedent, are matters of law, and therefore the facts on which either is supposed to depend, ought to be set forth in pleading. On this covenant Cisney declared, and after reciting the covenant, sets out for breach "that the said defendant to keep and perform his part of said covenant hath not, but hath broken the same in this, to wit, that he did not let said plaintiff have one-fourth of all said plaintiff and defendant made on the farm aforesaid, which said plaintiff avers was of the value of three hundred dollars, although to do so he hath been often thereto requested; that he hath failed and refused to pay the same, according to the tenor and effect of the said covenant. The said plaintiff further avers, that the said defendant hath failed and refused to let him have one-fourth of the wheat then growing upon the farm aforesaid, according to the tenor and effect of said covenant; and hath failed and refused to pay said plaintiff ten dollars, as bound by said covenant, although to do so he hath been often thereto requested." *2 A demurrer by the plaintiff to the defendant's plea, brings the declaration before the court. After assigning the foregoing breaches, the plaintiff below proceeds with averments on his part, to make out his cause, of action, to this effect: "The said plaintiff now in fact further avers, that he paid due attention to carry on the farm, until the crop was made and duly taken care of, except when prevented from so doing by the defendant; and, further, that he done all he was bound to do, according to the tenor and effect of said covenant; but avers that he was prevented by said defendant from the completion of the same." After issue joined, a verdict and judgment were rendered for the plaintiff below, and a motion for a new trial was made and overruled, and that opinion excepted to and the evidence spread upon record. The defendant below, now plaintiff in error, assigns for error: First that the breaches in the declaration are insufficient, and show no good cause of action., Secondly, that there is no sufficient averment that the plaintiff below had performed the precedent condition on his part or sufficient excuse alleged for not performing it. Thirdly, that the court erred in overruling the motion for a new trial. Notwithstanding this declaration is both unskilfully and awkwardly drawn, by attempting to show a cause of action after the breach was assigned, by inverting the proper order of things, in first setting out the cause of action and then exhibiting title to it, by averring performance on the part of the plaintiff below; yet, we conceive that the breaches, considered separately, are well assigned. They pursue the words of the covenant, or approximate them so nearly that the tenor is pursued; and if the breaches are true, the defendant below must be liable. As to the averment of a performance of the precedent condition, the plaintiff below has not been so successful. That the performance of his part was a condition precedent, cannot admit of a dobt. His performance was to produce what was to fulfil the covenant on the part of his adversary, except the ten dollars, which, upon a fair construction of the instrument, was to follow, and be added to one-fourth of the crop. It was, therefore, according to well settled principles, incumbent upon the plaintiff, to aver performance on his part strictly, and to show, not by a general allegation, that he had complied with what the covenant required, or set forth a good excuse for not so doing. So far as we can understand these averments, the plaintiff below seems to insist upon performance on his part, and an excuse by prevention also. But waiving this, it was incumbent upon him, if he performed part, to show how far, and then set forth in detail, an excuse for non-performance; for both matter of performance and matters of excuse, are matters of law, and ought to appear in the pleadings, to enable the court to see that there is a substantial cause of action. The manner of setting out the excuse, is evidently insufficient; for how or by what means the defendant below prevented his performance, is not shown. That he might be excused by the prevention of the plaintiff, is clear. But it must not be such a prevention as he chooses to call so; but it must appear on the face of his declaration to be such as warranted his discontinuing further efforts to perform. Instead of that, he contents himself with the expressions, "except when prevented by the defendant," and that he was prevented by the defendant from the completion of the same. *3 It is somewhat doubtful, whether this declaration ought to be considered as showing a title defectively set out, and be held good after verdict, under our statute of jeofails. But we need not answer this question; for the plaintiff below demurred to a plea of the defendant, which was adjudged in his favor. This brought the declaration, with all its defects, before the court below, and we are of opinion, that these objections must be held fatal on a demurrer before verdict. On the question of a new trial, the evidence seems deficient in not showing that the plaintiff below began to perform, or offered to perform his part at the time when he ought to have commenced. But we need not proceed further on this point, as the cause must be reversed for an error before he proceeded thus far, and in another trial the evidence may be different. The judgment must be reversed and the verdict set aside with costs, and the cause remanded with directions to overrule the demurrer and give judgment for the defendant below with costs, unless the plaintiff in that court shall apply for and obtain leave to amend his declaration. Ky.App. 1823. Read v. Cisney 4 Litt. 137, 14 Ky. 137, 1823 WL 1238 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
