(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 134,  20 Ky. 134 (Ky.),  1827 WL 2594 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Robinson v. Hawkins. Jan. 27, 1826. *1 Pleading. Moliter Manus Imposuit. Wounding. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEO. SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Assault and Battery 37 k 15 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(A) Acts Constituting Assault or Battery and Liability Therefor 37k8 Defenses 37k15 k. Defense of Property. Most Cited  Cases An assault and battery may be justified in defense of property, but, except assailant uses force in fact, resort is not to be had to violence before a request to depart. Assault and Battery 37 k 24(2) 37 Assault and Battery 37I Civil Liability 37I(B) Actions 37k24 Pleading 37k24(2) k. Plea or Answer and Replication. Most Cited  Cases In justification of an assault in defense of property, where the assailant did not use force, that plaintiff refused to leave on demand, or a resistance after a gentle laying on of hands should be alleged. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] To a declaration in the usual form, for an assault, battery and wounding, the defendants below filed the following plea: Declaration. "The plaintiff, his action ought not to have and maintain because they say, that they are the sons of one Anne Hawkins, and reside with her in her dwelling house, and that the plaintiff, with others, came on the close of said Anne, in a forcible manner and disturbed the repose of said family, and defendants used such force as was absolutely necessaray and no more than to cause said plaintiff and others to leave said close, which is the same assault in plaintiff's declaration alleged, and this they are ready to verify. Plea. To this plea the plaintiffs replied, and the defendants demurred to the replication, and the court sustained the demurrer, and gave judgment for the defendants; to reverse which, this writ of error is prosecuted. Judgment of the circuit court for defendants. By demurring, the defendants involved an inquiry into the validity of their own plea. If that is bad, it is immaterial what the replication is. We conceive the plea is indubitably bad. It is only a matter of inference whether the close which it is alleged the plaintiff disturbed, was the one on which the dwelling of the family stood; and if it was it would shock the peaceful feelings of society, to see the defendants beat, bruise and wound the plaintiff, even if he came in a forcible manner, to disturb the repose of the family, without requesting him first to depart, and if he refused, laying hands mildly upon him to take him away, and then to wound him although he did not render that wounding necessary by first endangering the defendants. The law will not indulge the passions to break into violence on the first rude entry, with constructive force, and to drive off by severe chastisements before other means are used; and, therefore, he who would justify an assault and battery, must show that it was necessary for his safety, that the danger of personal injury must occur by an assault, before a wounding can be justified. Hence pleas of this nature in defense of possession, or even of the domicile, must generally allege a request to depart, or a moliter manus imposuit, and an actual resistance, be, fore beating is returned, and damage before wounding ensues, progressively, or they can not be tolerated. *2 Plea to an action of A and B and wounding, that plaintiff came on the close in a forcible manner so as to disturb the repose of the family under defendant's protection and defendants used such force as was absolutely necessary and no more to cause said plaintiff to leave said close is insufficient__________It ought to be alleged that defendants requested plaintiff to depart and that plaintiff having refused, defendants moliter manus imposuit, &c.--And--To justify wounding the plea ought to allege defendants were first endangered. We are not told by this plea, whether the force was actual or constructive. If it was constructive only, then the request to depart, or the moliter manus, is necessary. If it was actual, then its degree and circumstances ought to be shown, so as to dispense with the necessity of milder measures, and there must be a personal assault by the intruder, indicating personal injury, before a wounding can be justified, and the special circumstances of the force ought to be stated, still progressing to greater extremes to excuse a wounding. McIlvoy v. Cochran, 2 Marsh, 271. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded with directions to overrule the demurrer, and for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Caperton, for plaintiff; Turner, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Robinson v. Hawkins 4 T.B.Mon. 134, 20 Ky. 134, 1827 WL 2594 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
