(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 288,  20 Ky. 288 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1420 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cotton v. Houston. Apr. 5, 1827. *1 Ferries on the Ohio. Statutes. Franchise. Non User. Fines. County Courts. APPEAL FROM THE BRACKEN COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Ferries 172 k 16 172 Ferries 172I Establishment and Maintenance 172k9 Franchises and Privileges 172k16 k. Extent and Exclusiveness of Franchise. Most Cited  Cases The intervention of a small creek, in Kentucky, impassable at its mouth, will not warrant the establishment of a ferry on the Ohio, within less than 1 1/2 miles of a former ferry. Ferries 172 k 19 172 Ferries 172I Establishment and Maintenance 172k9 Franchises and Privileges 172k19 k. Infringement or Disturbance. Most Cited  Cases The neglect of the owner of a ferry to transport passengers is no cause for the establishment of another ferry within the prohibited distance. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. John O'Bannon, now deceased, at the May court for Bracken county, applied for and obtained the establishment of a ferry across the Ohio river, from his lands near the mouth of Bull Skin, and complied with the requisites of the law in giving bond, and entered on the enjoyment of the privilege. Grant of the privilege of a ferry across the Ohio, to O'Bannon, by the county court. At the March court, 1816, he applied for and obtained a new grant for his ferry across the same stream, and gave a new bond with security, and continued the use thereof. Grant renewed by the court. At the May court, 1822, George Houston, the appellee, applied for and obtained the establishment of a Ferry from his land, across the river, within three or four hundred yards of the ferry of O'Bannon. Houston's grant for a ferry within less than a half mile. To oppose this application, George T. Cotton, the executor and heir of O'Bannon, appeared in court, and contested the right to grant it, and shewed the former grant, which he held as the representative of O'Bannon. But on its being proved to the court, that there was a small stream putting in between them, impassable at its mouth, but passable at any time when the road went between the river and the hill--that the ferry of O'Bannon, for the last three years, had not been well attended to--that a boat had been kept there during that time, but it had not been used, and that boat was swept off by the ice the preceding winter--and the public experienced some inconvenience from it--and the old ferry, during said three years, was leased by O'Bannon or his representative, to the owner of a ferry on the opposite side of the river, and the lessee of the ferry attended to it--and at all times, during said three years, whenever a person came to the river on this side, in order to cross, and blew a horn, the lessee on the other side, would come and take him over--the court granted the new ferry, and Cotton excepted and appealed. *2 Cotton, O'Bannon's heir, opposes the grant to Houston--Evidence on the case in the county court. We can not concur with that court in the propriety of the grant to Houston, or admit the right to establish his ferry. The act of 1806, 1 Dig. L. K. 591, expressly restrains the county courts from establishing ferries across the Ohio, when there is another ferry with in one mile above or below the ferry applied for, except in a town, or where it shall be made necessary, by the putting into the river of some impassable creeks, or opposite to some established ferry in the Ohio State. A second act of 1812, 1 Dig. L. K. 593, defines that mile, at which the second ferry may be established, to be one mile on a straight line. And an act of 1819, 1 Dig. L. K. 593, declares that, thereafter, "no ferry shall be established on the Ohio river, to the opposite shore, nearer than one and a half miles above, or one and a half miles below any other ferry that has heretofore been established, or may hereafter be established, except it be in a town, where an impassable river intervenes.?? Statutes concerning ferries across the Ohio. It is not pretended that either of these ferries are in a town, or opposite to another on the shore of the State of Ohio, except that of the appellant. The small creek putting in between the two, does not come up to that kind of impassable stream intervening, required by the statute, to authorize a second grant. It is stated to be impassable, at its mouth. So any rivulet or ravine may be, however small, owing to the height of its banks, or the ebbing of the water from the river. But this, on the usual road, at a small distance from the river, is stated to be passable at any time; and therefore, presented no obstruction to passing up or down the stream. The intervention of a small creek, impassable at its mouth, will not warrant the establishment of a ferry on the Ohio, within less than a mile and a half of a former ferry. The neglect of the owner of Cotton's ferry, as proved, or the leasing it to the ferry-holder of the opposite shore, certainly did not forfeit the franchise, or authorize the court to treat it as a nullity. By such neglect, the owner might be guilty of a breach of his bond--and for failing to transport a passenger in due time, he is made liable to a fine, before a justice of the peace, not exceeding four dollars, 1 Dig. L. K. 593. Moreover, the county court, for neglect or obstinately refusing to perform any of his duties, are authorized, on summoning him to show cause, to discontinue his ferry and annul his grant. Neither of these things were done by the county court, in this instance. But the punishment inflicted for his neglect, is the rivaling his privilege by another grant. However politic or expedient such a corrective might be, it can not be urged in support of the decision of the court below. This argument must be addressed to another department of the government, and not the judiciary. To them it is sufficient to say, that the law is otherwise. *3 Neglect of the owner of a ferry, to attend and transport passengers, is no cause for the establishment of another ferry within the prohibited distance-- --The ferryman is subject to fine--action on his bond-- and the grant may be repealed by the court. The order granting the ferry to Houston, and all subsequent proceedings thereon, must be reversed, and set aside with costs. Crittenden for appellants; McConnell for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Cotton v. Houston 4 T.B.Mon. 288, 20 Ky. 288, 1827 WL 1420 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
