(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 296,  19 Ky. 296 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1300 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Stark's Admr. v. Thompson's Exrs. Jun. 5, 1826. *1 Bar by Former Decision. Pleading. Rescission of Contract. Compromise. Decree by Consent. Evidence. Accord and Satisfaction. ERROR TO THE CLARKE CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 445 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k445 k. Questions presented in original action. Most Cited  Cases Where payment of a bond has been pleaded in an action at law on the bond, the fact of payment cannot be retried in chancery on a bill to be relieved from the judgment at law, where complainant fails to allege that he was ignorant at the time of action at law of the matters of equity set up in his bill. Judgment 228 k 951(2) 228 Judgment 228XXIII Evidence of Judgment as Estoppel or Defense 228k951 Evidence as to Judgment in General 228k951(2) k. Admissibility in general. Most Cited  Cases One not a party to the suit, though affected by the decree, may prove that it was entered by agreement, and may prove the agreement, though it should contradict the record. Accord and Satisfaction 8 k 3(1) 8 Accord and Satisfaction 8k3 Persons Between Whom Made 8k3(1) k. Accord and satisfaction accepted from third person. Most Cited Cases A plea of accord and satisfaction is not good if the satisfaction accrues from a stranger. Injunction 212 k 1153 212 Injunction 212IV Particular Subjects of Relief 212IV(A) Courts and Actions in General 212k1152 Commencement and Prosecution in General 212k1153 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 212k26(1)) Where a recovery is had on a bond for the conveyance of land, as if all the purchase money was paid, an obligation for a balance of the purchase money cannot be enjoined for want of title. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. On the third day of November, 1797, John Fristoe with Thomas Stark as security, executed to William Thompson, a bond conditioned to convey to said Thompson one hundred and eighty-four acres of land by metes and bounds. Fristoe and Stark's conveyance bond to Thompson. On the same day Thompson executed to said Fristoe a bond conditioned to pay him eighty-three pounds eight shillings with interest from the date, being part of the price of the land to be conveyed by Fristoe, to wit: the eighty-four acres, exceeding the one hundred, the price for one hundred acres being supposed to be otherwise discharged, as may hereafter be explained. Thompson's bond for part of the consideration to Fristoe. On the 21st of August, 1803, William Thompson assigned his interest in the conveyance bond of Fristoe to Charles Roseberry and William Vance. Roseberry assigned his interest to Edward Steen, who assigned his interest therein to John Peebles. Vance assigned his interest to John M. Hutchinson, who also assigned the same to John Peebles, who, by said assignments became invested with the whole interest in the bond on the 17th of April, 1806, the possession of the land to be conveyed by said bond, still accompanied the bond. *2 Assignment of the conveyance bond. On the 18th of March, 1800, Fristoe endorsed a credit on the bond which he held on Thompson for the purchase money, of L16 10s. and on the 18th of April, 1800, he asigned the same bond to Thomas Stark, who was his security for the title of the land to Thompson, and in this situation that bond remained till this controversy commenced. Assignment of the bond, for balance purchase money, to Stark, the security in the conveyance bond. While John Peebles held the land under his assignment of the bond from Fristoe to Thompson, William C. Ralls, heir at law of Horeb Ralls, claiming the land by the same title, which Fristoe professed to sell to Thompson, brought an ejectment for the land and recovered a judgment. Wm. C. Ralls judgment in ejectment for the land. This judgment was enjoined by Peebles, who in his bill made said William C. Ralls, Fristoe, Stark, Thompson and the assignors of the bond from Fristoe to Thompson defendants. He alleged in the bill that Thompson had first bough 100 acres of the land from Horeb Ralls, the son-in-law of Fristoe, and to whom Fristoe had conveyed the same land, for which 100 acres Thompson had paid, or rendered personal services in payment, during the performance of which services said Horeb Ralls, who lived in Virginia, died, and that said Fristoe, his father-in-law came to this country, and represented that the title of the land was still in himself; and gave his bond to Thompson for the 100 acres which Horeb Ralls had sold to him, and also 84 acres more, for which Thompson had given his bond as before stated. Injunction against Ralls, judgment by Peebles-- --Allegations of Peebles' bill. To this bill of Peebles, Fristoe, Stark, Thompson, William C. Ralls and the assignor answered, and interpleaded with each other. Answers and interpleaders. On a final hearing of that suit, the court below dissolved the injunction of William C. Ralls, and dismissed the bill as to him, whereby he gained the whole land, and decreed against Fristoe's representatives (he being then dead), and Thomas Stark, the then value of the land, it being in the meantime greatly increased in value, on the ground that Fristoe had committed a fraud upon Thompson, in selling him land to which he knew he had no title, and which title he had conveyed to Horeb Ralls long before that time. Decree in the case of Peebles vs. Ralls, &c. Stark then, who held the bond from Thompson to Fristoe, for the purchase money, by assignment from Fristoe, brought his action of that debt against Thompson's representatives, he having died, pending the former suit, and recovered a judgment for the amount with interest, deducting the credit upon the bond. Judgment for Stark, on the bond for balance of the purchase money, against Thompson's executors. Thompson's bill____Grounds of equity. To be relieved against this judgment, Thompson's representatives filed this bill against the representatives of Stark, he having died in the meantime also, setting forth as grounds of equity. *3 1st. That Thompson had fully paid said bond in his lifetime to Fristoe, the obligee, or Stark the assignee. 1st, payment. 2nd. That the said bond was given for said tract of land, to which Fristoe had no title, by reason of which, Peebles the remote assignee of the title bond, had failed against William C. Ralls, heir at law of Horeb Ralls. Matter relating to the consideration. 3d. That said Peebles, William C. Ralls and Thomas Stark had made a compromise of the chancery suit before named of Peebles against William C. Ralls, Stark, Thompson, &c., before its trial, in which it was agreed that William C. Ralls should take his decree giving him the land by a dissolution of the injunction and dismissing the bill--that Peebles should take his decree for the value of the land against Fristoe's representatives, and Stark his security, and then should assign that decree to said William C. Ralls and Stark, or one of them to be recovered by them of Fristoe's representatives, and should also pay to said William C. Ralls by the consent of Stark a sum of money in discharge of said bond from Thompson to Fristoe held by Stark as the assignee, and that said William C. Ralls should convey to Peebles the same one hundred and eighty-four acres of land, which he had done, and that Peebles had assigned his decree on Fristoe and Stark accordingly, and had paid up the amount agreed to be received from Peebles in discharge of the bond held by Stark as assignee of Fristoe on Thompson, by which means the representatives of Thompson were discharged, the guardian ad litem to defend Thompson's infant heirs in said suit having been a party to said agreement. Compromise, accord and satisfaction, &c. To this bill the administrator of Stark answered, denying his knowledge of these matters of equity, and requiring proof thereof; insisting that Peebles had obtained a decree in his suit, as the remote assignee of Thompson for the full value of the land, which imposed upon Thompson's representatives a payment of their bond, and pleading the judgment at law, as a bar to the equity set up, they having pleaded payment generally to the said action at law. Answer of Stark's administrator, relying, among other things, that payment had been pleaded at law. On the hearing the court perpetuated an injunction, and from that decree, the administrator of Stark has appealed to this court. Decree of the circuit court, perpetually enjoining the judgment. As to the first ground of equity set up, to-wit: that Thompson had paid the bond in his lifetime, the appellees must fail. For in the different answers of Thompson to the bill of Peebles, and in response to interrogatories by his co-defendants (which suit was terminated long before the present suit commenced), he insists on the payment of the credit upon the bond and of twenty pounds more, proof of which he made in that suit by one witness; and the rest of the bond he admitted to be still due. *4 Ground in the bill as to payment overruled, on the pleading and evidence. In addition to this, if Thompson had made payment, under the plea of payment at law, it was the duty of his representatives to adduce the proof thereof, and not having done so, they can not be permitted again to retry the fact of full payment in chancery, whatever right they may have to partial payments. Where payment is pleaded at law, payment in full can not be afterwards relied on for injunction. It is true that by a replication to the plea and answer of Stark's administrator, Thompson's representatives have alleged that they pleaded payment in the action at law for the purpose alone of relying on the presumption of payment from the lapse of twenty years from the time the bond became due till suit was brought thereon, and they allege that at that time they were ignorant of the matters of equity set up in their bill. But they have adduced no proof in support of this representation. Besides they have not in their bill, on any other part of their pleadings, to which they have made oath, deposed that they were ignorant of any of the matters set up in their bill on the trial at law. The replication appears to have been made out and filed by counsel alone, without oath. In such case a replication by counsel to this ground of bar by former decision, that payment was pleaded, only to rely on the presumption by lapse of time, and that complainant did not then know the fact of payment, does not vary the case. We hold it to be indispensable, when a party seeks to retry in chancery matters properly triable on the issue at law, that he must in a traversable shape allege and swear in the chancery pleadings, that he was wholly ignorant of these facts at the time of the trial, or give a strong reason, why he did not use such facts at law. So far then as the bill seeks relief from the judgment on the ground of full payment by Thompson in his lifetime, or his representatives since his death, the appellees must fail. When complainant seeks to rely in equitiy, on matter which was within the issue at law, he must allege and swear in the pleadings in chancery, he was wholly ignorant of the facts, or otherwise, shew why they were not there used. Nor do we conceive that the second ground, to-wit: the failure of consideration can avail the appellees. It is true that both Fristoe, the obligee, and Stark, the assignee of the bond now in contest, implicitly, and indeed we may say expressly admit, that Fristoe had no title when he gave his bond to Thompson binding himself to convey, and that he had previously conveyed the title to his son-in-law, Horeb Ralls, whose heir Wm. C. Ralls, by virtue of that title, recovered the land; and they excuse his sale of the land under these circumstances by saying that Horeb Ralls having departed this life, his widow and administratrix had empowered Fristoe, her father, to come to this country and settle the business of said Horeb, and that supposing he had power under that authority to meddle with his real estate, he had adjusted with Thompson a claim which he held upon Horeb Ralls by bond for 100 acres, and sold him 84 acres more, and gave his own bond for the conveyance of the whole and took in the bond which Thompson formerly held on said Horeb for the 100 acres, and they both pray in that suit that the contract may be rescinded, and that Thompson, or whosoever is entitled, may be permitted to receive the amount which he had paid in discharge of so much of the bond now in contest. *5 Decree dissolving an executory contract for land, is a sufficient ground of injunction against a judgment on an obligation for the purchase money. If this decree had taken place, or Peebles had recovered the 100 acres, for which Thompson previously held the bond on Horeb Ralls, and the contract had been rescinded as to the remaining eighty-four acres, for which the bond now in contest was given, it would have furnished the representatives of Thompson with a clear equity in this case. But neither of these events happened. On the contrary, the decree in that suit imposed on Fristoe and Stark the payment for the whole of the land at its then value, and did not discount against it the amount still remaining due from Thompson on the bond now in dispute. This imposes upon Thompson's representatives the payment of this bond, as the decree, to which he, or his representatives were parties, stands fair on its face to this effect. Where a recovery is had on the conveyance bond, as if all the purchase was paid, an obligation for a balance of it can not be enjoined for want of title. There was bond for bond, and one the consideration of the other, and although Thompson's remote assignee, Peebles, did not recover the land, yet as he recovered the value thereof in damages, Thompson ought to pay Fristoe or his assignee Stark, the amount of his bond. On this ground, therefore, the appellees must fail, unless something dehors that decree, arising out of the compromise of that suit, shall aid them. Held, on the allegations and proofs, that the obligation on which the judgment was recovered was, compromised and satisfied in the case. Peebles vs. Ralls, Stark, &c. This involves the consideration of their third ground of equity above named. In proving this part of their equity, there is a controversy about recording of the deposition of the security in the injunction bond. On this controversy we need not determine; for the remaining depositions coupled with the decree and proceedings in the chancery suit of Peebles v. Ralls, Stark, &c. fully substantiate the facts alleged. It does appear that that suit was compromised in the following mode:--W. C. Ralls was to have a decree dissolving the injunction, and dismissing the bill of Peebles as to him.--Peebles was to have his decree against Fristoe's devisee and Stark for the full value of the land. This decree he was to assign and did assign to Will. C. Ralls, and was to pay the principal of the bond now in contest after the credits were deducted to Ralls, with the assent of Stark, the legal holder--Ralls was to convey the whole land to Peebles--and the estate of Thompson was to be discharged from further liability, agreeably to the understanding of the parties; and the special guardian of the infant children of Thompson, who, (but not his executors) were parties to that suit, made this a sine qua non in that arrangement. It is true, this arrangement was not entered of record in that suit, nor was the decree entered by consent. But the decree rendered, is so discordant with the equity of the case, that it creates a violent presumption, that it was procured by some understanding of the parties and not the act of the court, and is itself, as well as this suit which has grown out of it, a severe comment upon the impropriety of any court permitting a decree to be entered contrary to the right of the case, unless such entry is made by the express assent of the parties on record. For it is impossible to suppose, that Thompson's estate could have been made liable to the bond now in suit, by any decree which a correct chancellor would have entered in that controversy. *6 Discordance of the decree with the equity of the case may be evidence that it was rendered on a compromise and by consent of the parties, tho' not so entered. Although the consent, or arrangement then made, is not of record, yet it is competent for the executors of Thompson, who are the complainants in this, but not parties to that suit, to aver and prove the arrangement, even though it should contradict that record. One effected by a decree, but not a party, may aver and prove it was entered by an agreement of the parties, tho' it contradict the record. This they have done, and the agreement is such that a court of equity ought to enforce it, and neither Stark, or his representatives ought to be permitted to recover now, because by that arrangement they may now seem to have the apparent legal right, when by that compromise they acquired that right, by inducing the special guardian of the infant heirs to surrender a condition of safety, under an express understanding that the estate of his wards would be equally safe, by an extinguishment of the bond through the instrumentality of Peebles. The only objection then, to the relief prayed, is, that which may arise from the supposition that this agreement, or compromise, being executed, would form a good plea of accord and satisfaction, which is a legal bar, of which the defendants could have availed themselves at law, and having failed to do so, they can not use the defence in equity. Matter of a plea of accord and satisfaction must be pleaded at law; and is, therefore, no ground for injunction. It may be admitted, that the complainants were bound to use in the action at law, all legal pleas known to them, and that a failure to do so, would be conclusive against them. This supposition of this matter, forming a plea at law, on the first consideration of the case presented some difficulty in the mind of the court; but on more mature deliberation, that difficulty has been removed. For we conceive that this matter could not have been drawn out into the form of a plea of accord and satisfaction, which would have been sustained according to the rigid rules of law. The accord, if such it may be called, was made between Stark, the legal holder of this bond,--the guardian ad litem of Thompson's infant children--William C. Ralls and John Peebles.--The condition of settlement adhered to by the special guardian, was the acquittal of the estate of his wards--William C. Ralls, though not the holder of the bond, but a stranger to it, was by the consent of the holder, to receive satisfaction for the bond, and Peebles who was a stranger to, and not privy to the bond, was to give the satisfaction, by paying the amount in part, and a settlement of the suit and a transfer of his decree for the other suit. But-- An accord and satisfaction moving from a stranger, not privy, to a bond, is not a plea at law; but grounds for injunction and relief in equity. As early as the case of Grimes v. Bolfield, Cro. Eliz. 541, it was decided that an accord and satisfaction, moving from a stranger, who was not privy to a bond, could not be pleaded in bar by the obligor. This decision has since been quoted in the abridgments and elementary writers as law, and has not been overturned, but has been adhered to by the supreme court of New York, in the case of Clow v. Borst and Best, 6 John, 37. According to this doctrine, this matter could not have been pleaded at law, and consequently can be used in equity, as it is a valid agreement, and to permit Stark's representatives to recover any part of the money, is against conscience. *7 The decree must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. JUNE 5, 1826. Triplett for plaintiffs, in error, moved the court for a rehearing, on the ground, which he set forth in a petition, that William C. Ralls and Thomas Triplett, for whose use he alleged the action at law, had been prosecuted, and, were exclusively the owners of the judgment enjoined, which he said appeared in the record of the judgment exhibited who were necessary parties; and that they not having been made defendants, the dismissal of the bill ought to have been without prejudice, and not absolutely as it was done. He cited Turner v. Cox, 5 Littell's R. 175;  3 Bibb, 33; 2 Maddock's Chancery, 143;  3 Munford 29. Motion for rehearing. Parties. Exhibits. Pleading. OCTOBER 9, 1826. PER CURIAM "The cases referred to, requiring, other parties to be made, are not analagous--and the interest of those who, it is insisted, ought to be made parties, does not appear in any part of the pleadings in this case, but is only to be gathered from the exhibits filed. Motion for rehearing overruled. The petition is therefore overruled." And so the decree stands unaltered. Triplett for plaintiffs; Barry for defendants. Ky.App. 1826. Stark's Adm'r v. Thompson's Ex'rs 3 T.B.Mon. 296, 19 Ky. 296, 1826 WL 1300 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
