(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 545,  10 Ky. 545 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1165 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Brooks et al. v. Clay.FNa1 FNa1. This case is reported  1 Litt., 261. Jun. 11, 1821. West Headnotes Venue 401 k 81 401 Venue 401III Change of Venue or Place of Trial 401k81 k. Remand. Most Cited Cases After a change of venue, a motion to remand, like a plea in abatement, should be made as early as convenient. Adverse Possession 20 k 98 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k98 k. Possession Under Claim of Right Without Color of  Title. Most Cited Cases Rights to real estate acquired by adverse possession under claim of right, but without title or color of title, are limited to the lands actually occupied. Aliens, Immigration, and Citizenship 24 k 681 24 Aliens, Immigration, and Citizenship 24VIII Citizenship and Naturalization 24VIII(A) Citizenship 24k680 Expatriation 24k681 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 77k13  Citizens) Aliens, Immigration, and Citizenship 24 k 684(2) 24 Aliens, Immigration, and Citizenship 24VIII Citizenship and Naturalization 24VIII(A) Citizenship 24k680 Expatriation 24k684 Proceedings 24k684(2) k. Evidence and Fact Questions. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 77k13  Citizens) Whether a citizen may expatriate himself without the consent of the state, quaere;  but there can be no doubt of the right of the state to prescribe what shall be the unequivocal evidence of expatriation. Evidence 157 k 178(4) 157 Evidence 157V Best and Secondary Evidence 157k176 Grounds for Admission of Secondary Evidence 157k178 Destruction or Loss of Primary Evidence 157k178(4) k. Sealed Instruments. Most Cited  Cases Where a sealed instrument is lost or destroyed, secondary evidence is admissible. Evidence 157 k 314(1) 157 Evidence 157IX Hearsay 157k314 Nature and Admissibility 157k314(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Hearsay evidence of the place of birth of a party is inadmissible. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 This is a writ of error brought to reverse a judgment in ejectment, rendered in favor of the lessor of the plaintiff in the court below. The errors assigned allege the declaration is insufficient. On this point we shall not dwell, further than to remark that an issue is joined, and after that a statute in force forbids such exceptions either to force or substance. After issue joined in ejectment, no objection to form can prevail. There was a trial had in the court where the cause was first commenced, and a verdict was found for the defendants below, which the court set aside and awarded a new trial, and an exception was taken to that opinion, and it is now relied on as error. The plaintiff below, on that trial, proved that a patent covered the residence of the tenants, and exhibited a deed from the patentee to himself, while the land was a forest and before the settlement of the tenants. This entitled him to a verdict, unless a valid defence was exhibited.--The tenants gave in evidence a patent posterior in date to that set up by the lessor of the plaintiff; but this patent and even the survey on which it was founded, was not twenty years old at the commencement of suit. And altho' the tenants proved their entry upwards of twenty years before suit commenced, and some improvement made, yet they exhibited no declaration either by entry, survey, or patent, so that there was nothing by which their possession could be extended beyond their actual close, or by which it could be limited. And they had proceeded to extend their actual enclosures within the twenty years.--Under such circumstances the jury could not be warranted by the evidence, in finding their verdict for the tenants. Such a verdict admitted of no apology, and the court which presided over the trial respected the law as well as justice of the case in granting a new trial when appealed to for that purpose. A possession of more than twenty years, when taken before the survey or patent, is limited by the close. Another jury was empannelled at a subsequent term, and after hearing the evidence retired to consider of their verdict, and returned no more; nor is there any further notice of them upon the record. The cause was then moved by a change of venue from the Madison to the Clarke circuit court on the petition of the lessor of the plaintiff. From there it was remanded to the Madison circuit, on the motion of tenants, on account of some irregularity in the removal. It was then moved, by a subsequent change of venue on the application of the lessor of the plaintiff, to the Garrard circuit court; from whence it was again remanded, on motion of the tenants, back to Madison. It was then moved the third time from Madison to the Jessamine circuit on the petition of the lessor of the plaintiff, where it was tried and this verdict and judgment rendered for the plaintiff below. It is now contended that as the removals to Clarke and Garrard were erroneous, they or one of them amounted to a discontinuance of the cause, and that it ought to have been dismissed. We cannot perceive any principle which would terminate the cause by these removals. The lessor of the plaintiff showed no intention of discontinuing; but industriously availed himself of the privilege allowed him by law of changing the venue for his own security. The tenants by their own conduct, procured the cause to be sent back to the county where there was no doubt in the jurisdiction, and where they were legally yoked or opposed to the plaintiff in the controversy. Yet where the cause is returned then on their motion and not before, they question the existence of the cause. This they ought not to be permitted to do. Nor are we prepared to say that erroneous proceedings in removing a cause by order of the proper organ of the law, ought ever to be held a discontinuance. *2 A jury retiring from the bar and returning no more, are discharged at the end of the term and a venire de novo is proper. An informal change of venue does not operate a discontinuance. It was relied on in arrest of judgment in the court below, and is assigned for error in this court that no further proceedings could be had till the return of the jury, who last retired in Madison, and that they ought to be still considered as deliberating on the cause. If the party who has made this question was serious in his objection in the court below, it will not derogate perhaps too far from the gravity of the bench, to say that he might soon have relieved this difficulty, by applying to that court to call in this jury which had remained out for months, and enquired after the result of their tedious de liberations. In England where the court was always presumed to be open for many purposes in the presence of the judge, and in his travels from county to county to hear trials and take in verdicts at nisi prius, he was considered as having at all moments the powers of a nisi prius court, he might retain and keep the jury together, and take them with him till they responded to the issue. But here where each circuit court is local, and the judicial acts of the judge, except in a few cases, are confined to the judicial days allowed by law--when the court ends, the jury are discharged by operation of law, and there is no provision for their confinement from term to term, and it would be an extraordinary consequence of their dispersion, if they should be allowed to carry the cause with them. This objection is therefore entitled to no weight. Just before the trial in the Jessamine circuit court, the tenants made another motion to remand the cause to Madison, But the court refused to hear this motion, and we conceive properly. At a former term the lessor of the plaintiff appeared prepared for trial, and the tenants showed cause and procured a continuance at their costs, and at the hour of trial, after the witnesses had been procured and considerable expense incurred they urged the cause to be remanded. All such motions ought to be held to the same strictness in point of time as pleas in abatement, and ought to be made at the first convenient hour. After the party has given his adversary reason to believe that he intends to meet him on the merits, he ought not to be permitted to urge an application to remand. After a change of venue a motion to remand, like a plea in abatement, should be made at the first convenient hour. On the trial the tenants objected to the reading of the patent in evidence set up by the lessor of the plaintiff, in the name of David Tanner, because there was no evidence that Turner had accepted it, and because it was under the lessor seal of the commonwealth of Virginia. These exceptions are not entitled to a serious reply. We do not admits that patents made out by the agents of government and which completely pass the title when the last act of these agents is completed, require delivery and acceptance to make them operative; or that the lesser seal of Virginia is not equally the seal of that state with the greater one. *3 It is not essential to the validity of a patent that the patentee should accept it, it is also valid under the lesser seal. The same reply may be given to the motion of the tenants based on the same grounds, and because the patentee was shown to be out of the commonwealth at the date of the patent, after the lessor of the plaintiff had given in evidence a deed from the patentee and proved that the tenants resided within it. Nor is the objection to the admission of a copy of the deed of the lessor of the plaintiff entitled to more weight. The deed was recorded in due time to proper proofs, and out of abundant caution the lessor of the plaintiff made oath to the loss of the original. A copy of a conveyance may be given in evidence on the loss of the original. The patent to David Tanner, set up by the lessor of the plaintiff, was dated on the 20th September, 1786. His deed to the lessor of the plaintiff was dated on the 29th June, 1791, and expresses to be "between David Tanner of the province of Louisiana and district of Natchez, of the one part, and Green Clay, of Madison and commonwealth of Virginia of the other part." It was proved that Tanner was born in North Carolina, and resided there till the year 1780. That he was a whig in the American revolution--that in 1780 he came to Kentucky, where he resided till 1784 or 1785, when he removed with his family to Natchez, or its neighborhood, avowing his intention to settle there with his family, before he left Kentucky, and that he had not since been in Kentucky to the knowledge of any of the witnesses. The lessor of the plaintiff moved the court to instruct the jury that if they found that Tanner, the patentee, had ever been a citizen of the United States, he could not forfeit that citizenship, unless by going before a justice of the peace, and declaring his intention to expatriate himself in the manner pointed out by the statute of Virginia. The court did not instruct the jury in as broad, abstract terms as asked, but instructed them that if they found that Tanner was ever a citizen of the United States, he could not forfeit that citizenship so as to be incapable to receive a title to land by grant, or so as to be incapable of conveying a title vested in him while a citizen, unless he had expatriated himself in the manner pointed out by the statute of Virginia or by an act of high treason. The correctness of this instruction is now presented for the decision of this court. The counsel for the plaintiff appears to have attempted to impose on the court the litigated question, whether under our government, a citizen has a natural right to expatriate himself, without the control of his government, or whether the government must grant him permission and prescribe the mode, before he can do so. The court, however, has evaded the question, and that with such propriety that there is no necessity for this court to enter into it. For, suppose it to be conceded, that Tanner expatriated himself by his removal, what would become of his lands which he had acquired while a citizen, and to which, on his abandonment of his country, he had a complete title? We can expect no answer to this question from British authorities. For that country has so pertinaciously adhered to the doctrine, that no subject can expatriate himself; that no provision exists in her common or statute laws disposing of the estate of an expatriated person. To whom the estate passes, and how it is to be disposed of, when granted to an alien, is provided for. But the disposition of it when held by a legitimate subject, before and at the time he became an alien is not provided for. But be the right of Virginia what it may, with regard to preventing her citizens from becoming aliens, she no doubt possessed the power of prescribing what should be the unequivocal evidence of their becoming so. This she did do by the act of 1783,  2 Litt. 580. As the common law which she derived from England, made no provision for the forfeiture of estates formerly held, on becoming an alien, the legislature alone could supply the casus omissuss. On this subject she said nothing; and we can not suppose, notwithstanding in the same act she declares the right of expatriation to be a natural right, that she intended that the estate of her citizens, who changed their residence to the dominions of a friendly power, as Tanner did, without pursuing the requisitions of the statute, should be forfeited. She only attempted to forfeit the estate of those that went to her enemies. Hence it may be doubted, whether, if Tanner had pursued the requisitions of the act, his estate held formerly, while a citizen, would have been forfeited when the legislature made a declaration to that effect, so that he could not convey it. The court below, therefore, could not have erred in deciding that the evidence of his expatriation, of such ambiguous character, did not disqualify him to convey his title, when, if evidence of the conclusive character pointed out by law had been adduced, his disqualification to do the same act would have been questionable. For whatever may be the power of the American governments with regard to retaining the persons of their citizens at all times, and of reclaiming them at all places, no doubt can be entertained of their power with regard to the lands of their citizens vested while such, and claimed by them after expatriation. Government may permit such titles to be held and conveyed after expatriation, or direct them to be taken away; and until she does the latter, it is doubtful whether power can exist in a court to forfeit them. The same doctrines are intimated by the supreme court of the United States in the case of Talbot v. Janson, 3 Dal. 133. And in the case of M'Ilvain v. Coxe, 2 Cranch, 230, and  4 Cranch, 209, a person born in New Jersey, previous to the revolution, who, in 1777, joined the British army and adhered to that government ever since, and resided there, receiving compensation for his services as a suffering refugee, was allowed to take and hold lands in that state, by a descent cast, long since his defection from the government, which is a much stronger case than the present. *4 An American citizen removing to the dominion of a friendly power, is capable of holding or selling lands previously acquired. One other question made by the assignment of error, we are compelled to notice. The plaintiff asked one of his witnesses if it was not reputed in 1784 and 1785, that Tanner, the patentee, was a native of North Carolina? This question was objected to, and it was insisted that the witness should be allowed to detail his own knowledge only on this subject and not report. The objection was overruled, and the witness directed to answer the question. This decision can not be supported by authority. Hearsay evidence is admissible to prove pedigree, and the declarations of a deceased parent have been admitted to prove the time of a child's birth; but is rejected when offered to prove the place. Phil. Ev. 195. Much less, then, is the common report of those, which may not have the means of knowing, admissible, to prove the place of nativity. Hearsay evidence, except as to pedigree, or the declarations of a deceased parent as to the age of a child, is inadmissible and its reception will not be cured by the subsequent production of competent evidence to the same fact. But after this hearsay evidence was admitted, the defendant in error produced competent evidence of the same fact. Hence the question arises, when improper evidence of a material fact is admitted, and the record shews that afterwards proper evidence of the same matter was introduced, ought the judgment on account of this error to be reversed--or ought the error to be considered as corrected by the subsequent testimony? If the proper evidence produced, after the improper, was of a conclusive character, the error perhaps might be cured. But when the proper evidence consists in the swearing of witnesses, as in this case, and is from its nature construable in many ways, we can not say that the jury was guided by the proper testimony alone or that which was improper; or whether they might not consider the former kind so strongly corroborated by the latter, as to be induced to believe the fact, when without the improper evidence, they might even from the manner itself in which the witness detailed it, have doubted or disbelieved that of a competent character. For these reasons we conceive this error must be held fatal to the judgment, however much we may regret disturbing a verdict in a cause so long pending, and which, in all other respects, seems to have been fairly and correctly decided. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and new proceedings directed consistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1821. Brooks v. Clay 3 A.K.Marsh. 545, 10 Ky. 545, 1821 WL 1165 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
