(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 36,  17 Ky. 36 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1848 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wilkinson, &c. v. Nichols. Oct. 7, 1824. *1 Occupying Claimants. ERROR TO THE GREENUP CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Landlord and Tenant 233 k 1167 233 Landlord and Tenant 233V Enjoyment and Use of Premises 233V(G) Improvements and Covenants Therefor 233k1167 k. Right to compensation in general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k157(6)) An occupying claimant who obtained possession by contract from his adversary's tenant is not entitled to pay for his improvements. Ejectment 142 k 142(4) 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k142 Grounds for Compensation for Improvements or Taxes Paid 142k142(4) k. Bona fides of occupation or claim. Most Cited  Cases One who surreptitiously obtains possession with no title but a deed from one having no claim is not an innocent and bona fide occupant within the act of 1820. Improvements 206 k 4(2) 206 Improvements 206k4 Compensation 206k4(2) k. Good faith of claimant. Most Cited Cases A person who surreptitiously obtains the possession of land without title, except a deed from one having no claim, is not an innocent and bona fide purchaser within the occupying claimant law, and is not entitled to compensation for his improvements. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. This is a writ of error to reverse a judgment rendered against the plaintiff in error, on the report of commissioners, made under the act concerning occupying claimants of land, passed on the 20th day of December. 1820. Sundry exceptions were taken to the proceedings in the court below, and repeated in this court by the assignment of errors, some of which question, on different grounds, the constitutionality of the act under which the proceedings were had. We need not, however, determine any thing about the validity of the act; for we are clearly of opinion that the occupant did not make out a case coming within the act, or any other act which gives compensation for improvements, to occupying claimants. It is proved, that the improvements in question, or most of them, were made by tenants under the same title by virtue of which the plaintiff in error has now recovered his judgment of eviction for the land. The last of these tenants the defendant in error attempted to drive from the land, by threats; but not succeeding in this, he brought out the posses sion of the tenant, and so entered, and now shows no title for the land, except a deed from another individ ual, who appears to have had no title of any kind. An occupant who obtained possession by contract from his adversary's tenant, stands in his shoes, and is not entitled to pay for his improvements. *2 The tenant has, therefore, failed to show a conflicting adverse title, or any claim under the title of the successful claimant, except that held in the character of a tenant, which he acquired by purchasing out the possession of a tenant of the successful title. Having come in under the tenant from whom he bought, he is bound to stand in his shoes, and in that situation can not receive pay for improvements. And if he was not bound to stand in the place of the tenant from whom he bought, and could be permitted to set up an adverse possession, still, as he has no title himself, and thus surreptitiously obtained the possession, he can not be that kind of "innocent and bona fide occupant," named in the act in question, to whom pay for improvements is allowed. A person who surreptitiously obtained the possession without title, except a deed from one having no claim, is not an innocent and bona fide occupant, within the act of 1820. The judgment, therefore, must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions there to quash the report and dismiss the proceedings with costs. Bibb, for plaintiff; Triplett and Monroe, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Wilkinson v. Nichols 1 T.B.Mon. 36, 17 Ky. 36, 1824 WL 1848 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
