(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 148,  17 Ky. 148 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1514 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Craig v. Bagby. Oct. 18, 1824. *1 Occupants, Another Action Pending, Former Judgment. ERROR TO THE NICHOLAS CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 554 228 Judgment 228XIII Merger and Bar of Causes of Action and Defenses 228XIII(A) Judgments Operative as Bar 228k549 Nature of Action or Other Proceeding 228k554 k. Actions Relating to Real Property. Most Cited  Cases Where a motion of defendants for commissioners under the occupying claimant law is overruled, it is a bar to subsequent proceedings by any of them, and a judgment obtained on the report of the commissioners appointed at a subsequent term is erroneous. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. The plaintiffs in error obtained a decree in the cou?? below against the defendants, for a tract of land, by virtue of an adverse entry, survey and patent. After this decree, at the June term of that court in the year 1813, commissioners were appointed to assess improvement, rents, waste, &c. under the occupying claimant laws; and at the September term following, they reported, and at the next succeeding March term, the report was quashed on the motion of the plaintiffs in error. Report of the first commissioners quashed, on motion of plaintiffs. A new set of commissioners were immediately appointed on the application of all the defendants except one, and these reported to the next June term, when the plaintiffs in error excepted to the report and moved to quash it on the ground, principally, that the defendants were not such seaters and improvers as would entitle them to compensation for improvements, and had not such title as would enable them to recover. Second set of commissioners appointed on motion of all the defendants except Bagby; report; motion by plaintiff to quash, undecided, 1814. The argument or trial of these exceptions did not take place, and no further notice was taken thereof, for nearly four years, to wit, until the March term 1818, when the following order appears of record, to wit: "On the motion of the defendants, by their counsel, for commissioners under the occupying claimant law, on hearing, it is ordered, that the said motion be overruled." Motion by all the defendants for the appointment of new commissioners, made and overruled. At the September term in the same year 1818, a rule, on the application of the defendants, was made against the plaintiffs, to show cause why commissioners should not be appointed. Rule, on application of Bagby for another set of commissioners. This rule was continued until the June term, 1819, when it was made absolute, and the commissioners granted, who reported, and judgment was rendered on their report in favor of the defendant Bagby. Appointment made, report, and judgment for Bagby. The plaintiffs in resisting this appointment, relied upon the former decisions had therein, as a bar to these proceedings; but the court disallowed the plea?? and the plaintiffs have prosecuted their writ of error. *2 These last proceedings were had at the instance o?? Robert Bagby, who was left out, or specially excepted in the appointment at March term 1814. The proceedings instituted at March term 1814, must either be considered as still pending, and that for that cause the court in 1818, overruled an appointment under a new application, because the former proceedings were not ended, or the whole subject of appointing commissioners was disposed of at the March term 1818. Whichsoever way it is considered, it must be held fatal to the present proceedings, for, if the report made under the appointment of 1814, is still pending and not disposed of, it was clearly improper to leave them not terminated and to commence de novo. Generally, no person can prosecute two actions for the same cause. The pendency of one will abate the other, and the defendant cannot be bound to answer as many suits as the plaintiff shall choose to bring. This principle, by analogy, must apply to, and govern proceedings under the occupying claimant law. If the defendants could begin anew, they might do it several times over, and thus harass their adversary in a manner which the law will not tolerate. Of course, the new appointment ought not to have been made. Judgment rendered on the report of one set of commissioners under the occupying claimant laws, whilst a former report of a prior set of commissioners is pending on a motion to quash it, is erroneous. If, however, the order of March 1818 is to be considered as a decision against the defendants on the merits of their claim to improvements, these proceedings cannot be sustained. A decision against the right, by a tribunal competent to decide, is a bar to future claim; and this principle must apply to these proceedings as well as others; and after the term was over, it was out of the power of the inferior court; and as it was not reversed by a superior tribunal, it must remain conclusive. Judgment overruling a motion by all the defendants to appoint commissioners under the occupant laws, is a bar against each of them, to a subsequent proceeding; and a judgment obtained on the report of commissioners appointed at a subsequent term, is erroneous. Considering this order then, as a decision against the right, no new appointment could take place; and in this light we are disposed to consider it, especially as it regards the present defendant in error, who was expressly omitted in the appointment of 1814, and is included by the terms of the order of March, 1818. All proceedings, therefore, commencing with the order of appointment of June 1819, to the judgment on the report, are deemed erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to overrule the last application with costs. Haggin, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1824. Craig v. Bagby 1 T.B.Mon. 148, 17 Ky. 148, 1824 WL 1514 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
