(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 18,  22 Ky. 18 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1619 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Young v. Hopkins and others. Oct. 16, 1827. *1 Evidence. Answers. Vendor and Vendee. Fraud. Consideration. Damages. Trustees. Incumbrances. APPEAL FROM THE BATH CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Fraud 184 k 22(1) 184 Fraud 184I Deception Constituting Fraud, and Liability Therefor 184k19 Reliance on Representations and Inducement to Act 184k22 Duty to Investigate 184k22(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A. sold an estate to B., representing that he owned the whole, when in fact he owned but half of it. Held, that A. could not defend against the allegation of fraud by showing that the deeds of the estate were recorded, and that B. by proper diligence could have discovered the fact that A. owned but one-half the estate. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 176 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(D) Payment of Purchase Money 400k173 Abatement or Deductions 400k176 k. Deficiency in Quantity of Land. Most Cited  Cases A. sold an estate to B., representing that he owned the whole, when in fact he owned but half of it. Held, that B. should be relieved to the amount of one-half the purchase money, although he had since purchased the other half of the estate for a less sum than half the stipulated value. Equity 150 k 345 150 Equity 150V Evidence 150k338 Answer as Evidence 150k345 k. Evidence to Overcome Answer. Most Cited  Cases The uncorroborated testimony of one witness will not overcome a responsive answer. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. James Young, the appellant, filed his bill in the court below, charging that the title for a house and lot, No. 198, in Owingsville, was conveyed by the trustees to the executors of Richard Manifee, who conveyed it to Elijah Atchison and Henry D. Atchison jointly; that Elijah Atchison attempted to sell the whole lot to William G. Rice, and Rice to Joseph A. Hopkins, not by conveyance, but by some contract among themselves, of which he was ignorant, and that said Joseph A. Hopkins, Rice and Elijah Atchison combined together to defraud him, and came to his house and jointly entered into a negotiation to sell to him the house and lot, which by their representations he was induced to purchase, at the sum of $2,465; that each of them, and particularly Hopkins, who was the most active in the sale, fraudulently represented and assured him, that the complete title to the said house and lot was in the said Elijah Atchison, and that he could convey it, when they and each of them, and particularly Hopkins, as well as Elijah Atchison, well knew the fact to be otherwise, and that said Elijah held an undivided moiety only; that confiding in the representations, and being ignorant of the title, he was induced by their fraud to accept a deed for the estate from said Elijah Atchison alone. That he had paid all the purchase money, except $973, and that for this he executed to Hopkins, who was the chief seller, one note for $473, payable at a distant day, and another for $500, payable at a day still more distant; that Hopkins had assigned away the first of these notes, whereby it fell into the hands of Marcus Thomas, and the latter he had assigned to Robert Andrews, and the assignee, Thomas, had brought a suit against him and recovered judgment, in which action he attempted to defend himself at law, and was prevented by the court deciding that his defense was in equity; that before a discovery of the fraud, he sold the said house and lot, and had conveyed with warranty to Elisha Catlet, against whom the said Henry D. Atchison brought his ejectment, asserting his legal title to the house and lot, which completely shewed him his situation, and finding out that said H. D. Atchison would recover, to save himself, he bought from Thomas Young, who had bought from said H. D. Atchison, his moiety of the lot, and obtained a conveyance, on which the ejectment was dismissed; that he had also filed his bill in equity against Elijah Atchison, William G. Rice, Joseph A. Hopkins, and Thomas and Andrews, the assignees of the notes, claiming a restoration of half the price of the lot, relying on the same equity now set up; that not intending to abandon his equity as to the assignees, and supposing that he could recover half the price of the lot from the other defendants, who sold to him, he discontinued that suit against the assignees, but tried it as to Elijah Atchison, Rice and Hopkins, and recovered against them a joint decree for half the price of the lot with interest, but was wholly disappointed in getting any thing by execution on that decree against either; that Rice was hopelessly insolvent; that Elijah Atchison had left the state and had become insolvent, and was now confined for crimes in the state prison of Georgia, and Hopkins had run away to Indiana, and was also found to be insolvent. He made all these parties defendants, and prayed for, and obtained, an injunction against the judgment of Thomas, and prayed for a perpetual injunction against that judgment, and that the note held by Andrews might be delivered up to be cancelled. *2 Allegations of the bill of Young against Hopkins, &c. Hopkins answered the bill, denying that he had bought the lot of Rice, and Rice of Elijah Atchison, and insists that he had bought from E. Atchison, and Rice from him, and that Rice, when he sold to Young, was indebted to him for part of the purchase money due for the sale of the same lot, and hence one of these notes was given directly from Young to him, by assent of Rice, and he surrendered Rice's note for the purchase money due him. That Rice was also in his debt for another house and lot bought from him, and as part of the price of this latter house and lot, Rice had procured Young to execute the other note, directly to him, which discharged so much of the purchase money of the latter lot. He denies that he was any party to, or actor in, the sale of the present house and lot, and alleges that Rice alone sold it, and that he was not privy to, or present at, the contract till at the time of closing it, he was called upon by Rice to make the arrangement about accepting the notes from Young, for what was due to him from Rice. He denies going to the house of Young with Rice and E. Atchison, and also denies making any representations to Young about the title, or that he knew at the time that the title was in any manner defective, and supposed that E. Atchison held the whole title. Answer of Hopkins. The assignees answer, denying any knowledge of the consideration of the notes, or any fraud therein, and insist, as they are informed, that Rice alone sold the lot, and not Hopkins, and that as Hopkins took the notes of Young for demands due to him from Rice, he took them clear of any equity existing between Young and Rice, and particularly one of them, which did not grow out of the price of that house and lot, but was given for another and different lot. They also insist that if the complainant should establish any equity against the notes in their hands; that he had since purchased the other moiety of the lot for the sum of $538 only, from H. D. Atchison, and that his equity, consequently, could only extend to that sum, which was far less than the half of the price, which he was to give, in his first purchase, and indeed, less than the amount of the notes enjoined. Answer of the assignees of the Youngs' promissory notes. Rice and E. Atchison never answered; nor is the insolvency and absence of Hopkins, E. Atchison or Rice disputed. The court dissolved the injunction, and dismissed the bill with costs and damages; and from that decree Young has appealed to this court. Decree of the circuit court. It is evident, that Young was induced to believe, by some one of the parties, that the complete title was in E. Atchison. The deed not only declares this; but what is more remarkable, he was induced to accept, though the price was a full one, a warranty against E. Atchison and his heirs alone, and not a general warranty, on which he could have any recourse, in case he was evicted by any other. This could not be supposed to have happened, without the fullest conviction on his part, that the title was complete, and of course, it must be ascertained how he came by this impression. There is a failure on the part of the defendants to show that the contract was with Rice, as they allege, or that Atchison had first sold to Hopkins, and he to Rice, or that there ever had been any sale from Hopkins to Rice, in any manner, before the sale to Young. On the contrary, though Rice lived in the house, and kept a tavern at the time, Hopkins had represented to others, that he and Rice were in partnership in that tavern. We suppose it is clearly proved, that Hopkins not only went to the house of Young, which he denies, but that he was the active manager of the sale to Young, and drew all the writings, and what is remarkable, on this point, must have been cognizant of it, as it progressed, for the deed which he drew from E. Atchison to Young, is dated one day before the notes were executed. It is also evident, that Hopkins, as well as Rice, did represent to Young, before, and at the sale, that the complete title was in E. Atchison. This is not only proved by others, but also by the testimony of Rice, whose deposition has been taken by both parties. *3 Evidence and facts of the case. Thus far, there appears to be no difficulty, and only one fact is wanting to complete and fix the fraud on Hopkins, and that is, that at the time of the sale to Young, he knew that E. Atchison held but half the title. Here the court below, appears to rely, for releasing these notes from the consequences, and has supposed that this fact is only proved by one witness, and that is insufficient under the rules of equity, to convict of fraud against the denial of the answers. Two witnesses are not required to overturn the answer of a defendant, as to a fact of which he professes ignorance only, and calls for proof, but might exist and not be known to him. While we are not disposed to controvert the existence of the general rule, that one witness alone, however positive, can not overturn the denial of a defendant, as to a fact resting within his knowledge, we are not disposed to admit, that it can, in this case, bring out the appellees. The answers of the assignees on this point, can not be relied on for that purpose. They have no knowledge of the facts, and therefore, their answers can not be taken as doing more than putting the fact in issue; than asserting their ignorance, and requiring proof. Any satisfactory testimony, therefore, must be held sufficient to establish the fact against such answers. The answer of Hopkins must, therefore, contain the denial, relied on, and the rule will not support it. We have already seen that his answer is discredited by indisputable testimony in other points, material to the controversy, and after that, equity will not apply the rule, and sustain the answer against even one positive witness. Where the answer is discredited on other points, one witness will prevail against it. But this witness does not stand entirely without corroboration. The fact that Young was certainly deceived by some one, and the arrangement of the notes, so as to avoid the effect of the equity, if possible, agrees with the witness; but what is still more strong, it is proved, that on the day the bargain was completed, an altercation of some warmth took place between Young and Hopkins, in which Hopkins cautioned Young "not to cut capers about the matter, as there was a secret in it," which even Rice himself, seems to have understood as having some allusion to a defect of title, or as intimating that Young by the bargain was caught in some snare, then unexplained. We therefore conceive, that the fraud against Hopkins, the original payee, and assignor of these notes is supported. Corroborating circumstances supply the place of the second witness, to overturn the answer. It is in effect assumed by the court below, that the title deeds being matter of record, Young was bound to look into them, and must be presumed to have seen them, as he took a deed for the lot. If this is to excuse from the effects of false representations, with regard to title, it would obviate the consequences of fraud in nearly all landed controversies, as all our titles are matters of record. Indeed men prudent and cautious, will examine them before they purchase, as the title papers are the safest guide. But we know that in many cases the credulous and confiding dealers do not do so, but act on seeing how the possession is held, and the representations of vendors. If these representations are false, the maker of them is, in such case, responsible. It is a bad defense in the mouth of a misrepresentation of fact, to say that the vendee might have discovered these falsehoods, by using due caution and diligence, and therefore he ought to be excused. It is true, in the case of warranty of personal chattels, the warranty is not supposed to extend to patent defects of the article sold, because the vendee is supposed to have seen their existence and not to have required a warranty against them. But in case of fraudulent misrepresentations, this does not excuse the fraud, and the case with which the defects can be seen, is given in evidence to prove that the vendee knew at the time, of the defect in relation to which he contends he is cheated. So far only is the evidence of use to the vendee. But we have seen in this case, that Young was, beyond all doubt, ignorant of this defect, and the defendants do not attempt to excuse themselves by alleging he was acquainted with it, but by contending they were ignorant of it also. *4 It is no defense to an allegation of fraud in the sale of land, by representing the title complete, where vendor owned but a moiety, to shew that the conveyances were recorded whereby vendee might with proper diligence have discovered the defect. It has been insisted that if Hopkins is guilty of what he is accused, still the equity arising therefrom will not reach these notes, because they were executed for debts or demands due to Hopkins by Rice, and particularly one of them was executed as to Hopkins, for a consideration not arising out of the house and lot in contest; and it is insisted that according to the case of  Morrison v. Clay, Hard. 421, and numerous cases since decided on the same principle, this will prevent relief on those notes. We can not conceive that the case of Morrison v. Clay has any analogy to the present. An innocent payee of notes, founded as to him on a valid consideration different from what the maker of the notes?? received, should not be drawn into loss by assenting to an arrangement which wrongs the maker, by the act of the third person responsible to the maker. If Clay, the holder of the notes in that instance, had in any manner partook of the deception practised on Morrison, the notes in his hands would have been vitiated thereby. The principle in that case is, that the innocent payee of notes, founded, as to him, on a valid consideration different from the consideration which the maker of the notes received, should not be drawn into a loss, by assenting to an arrangement which wronged the maker of the notes by the act of a third person, who was responsible to Morrison. In this controversy we conceive it makes no difference what was the consideration of these notes as to Hopkins; for by his fraudulent misrepresentations, he caused Young to give them, and the equity will attach to the notes, although he took them in discharge of debts ever so fair and valuable. But where the payee participates in the fraud by which the execution of the notes was obtained, the notes are vitiated in his hands. The payee of an obligation can not be permitted, as it were to smuggle into the demand a good consideration, by fraud, and thus preserve it. This equity must affect and reach the notes in the hands of the assignees. Consideration. The remaining question is, what deduction Young is entitled to, whether can he get compensation to the amount of half the estate, or, as he has purchased the share of Henry D. Atchison for less, is he only entitled to relief to that extent? He is not claiming a rescission of contract. That he can not do, because he had, by sale, disabled himself from rescinding before he discovered the fraud. His bill, therefore, may be assimilated to an action at law, for compensation for the fraud, and in such action if the difference between the thing actually sold, and that which was represented to be sold, can be accurately measured by the standard of the price stipulated, it is a good criterion of damages. *5 Purchaser of the entire estate of vendor owning but a moiety, fraudulently representing he owned the whole, shall be relieved to the amount of one-half the consideration money. This must have been the criterion if Young had not since acquired the title of Henry D. Atchison for a less sum than half the stipulated value of the estate sold. Can Hopkins, or the assignees, give this fact in evidence, to mitigate the damages, to which Young was subjected by the fraud of Hopkins? There may be cases where equity will consider the vendee, who has acquired outstanding incumbrances, or by his money cured defects in title, as trustee for the vendor, and allow such acquisition or purchase to enure to his benefit. But all the cases of that kind which have come under the observation of the court, embrace incumbrances, or cutstanding titles known at the time of the contract, and understood by the parties, or at farthest embrace the innocent mistakes of the vendor. If these are remedied by the money or acts of the vendee, such acts may perhaps be claimed by the vendor, to be applied to his benefit. But we have discovered no case where the perpetrator of a fraud has ever been permitted to make his vendee a trustee to cover or lessen the consequences of the fraud. If this outstanding title of H. D. Atchison, which extended exactly to half the estate, had been stipulated against by the vendors; or if we could reduce the representations of Hopkins to a mere innocent mistake on his part, which he himself believed, we might be disposed to measure the injury occasioned by the breach of his stipulations, or the consequences of his mistake, by the price given by Young to acquire the residue of the title. But there is no principle on which we can thus lessen the consequences of an act infected by turpitude of motive, nor can any person guilty of fraud, claim that he is cestui que trust, of the person defrauded, and that he has a right to be substituted in the place of the defrauded person, if the latter, by prudent and cautious measures, shall be able to extricate himself from the consequences of the fraud. Such successful achievement must, in such case, be set down solely to the benefit of himself and not of the party who defrauded him. Vendor in such case having committed a fraud in the sale, can not have the benefit of vendee's purchase of the other moiety of the estate--As might be the law in case of innocent mistake, or of incumbrances made known at the sale, afterwards purchased in by vendee. It follows, therefore, that Young is entitled to a deduction of half the price of the estate, and that he is entitled to a perpetual injunction against the judgment at law, with costs, and to a surrender of the note held by Andrews, to be cancelled, and for the amount so injoined and surrendered, he ought to be compelled to enter a credit on his former decree obtained by him against Hopkins, Rice and E. Atchison. Decision. Decree reversed with costs, and cause remanded for a decree to be entered in conformity to this opinion. Triplett, for appellant; Crittenden and Wickliffe, for appellees. Ky.App. 1827. Young v. Hopkins 6 T.B.Mon. 18, 22 Ky. 18, 1827 WL 1619 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
