(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 19,  21 Ky. 19 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1493 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Slaughter. &c. v. Froman and Wife. May 30, 1827. *1 Executors. Administrators de bonis non. Sureties. Parties. ERROR TO THE NELSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 88 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k83 Discovery and Collection of Assets 162k88 k. Debts Due from Executor or Administrator. Most  Cited Cases Where an administrator is removed for refusal to give counter security, his successor must stand as administrator de bonis non, and is entitled to the chattels of the decedent not disposed of or converted into money by the first administrator, but not to the price of the articles already converted into money. Executors and Administrators 162 k 125 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k123 Coexecutors and Coadministrators 162k125 k. Joint or Several Liability. Most Cited  Cases The sureties of a widow administratrix and her co-administrator are not liable for her distributive share of the chattels collected and converted by her co-administrator, but the latter alone is liable to her. Executors and Administrators 162 k 438(11) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k438 Parties 162k438(11) k. Action to Recover Legacy or Distributive Share.  Most Cited Cases All the distributees are necessary parties to a bill for distribution. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the facts. William Miner departed this life intestate, and administration of his estate was granted to his widow, Hannah Miner, and James Slaughter jointly, and they entered into a joint administration bond, with Jeremiah Brown and Will W. Mason, as sureties, for the due and faithful administration of the estate. The widow, some time thereafter, intermarried with Abraham Froman, who consequently became administrator in right of his wife. The sureties, Brown and Mason, caused a summons to be issued against the said Hannah and Slaughter, on a suggestion that the estate was in danger, to shew cause why they should not be compelled to give counter security. On their appearance they failed to give such security, and thereupon the court revoked their letters of administration, and granted administration to Abraham Froman himself, who gave security accordingly. Froman and wife then filed this bill, charging that Slaughter was the acting administrator before the grant was revoked, and had most of the estate in his hands, and exhibited a settlement of the county court, shewing a balance of money in his hands unaccounted for. Froman claims that balance entire, as administrator de bonis non, and also, both claim his wife's distributive share thereof, to be assigned her out of it. *2 Allegations of the bill. The court below decreed in favor of the complainants, the entire amount due on the account settled with the county court, not only against Slaughter, but his sureties in the administration bond, who were made defendants; but one of them having answered the bill and resisted the decree. To reverse this decree this writ of error is prosecuted. Decree of the circuit court. Froman must stand as an administrator de bonis non, and can have no greater rights against the money in the hands of Slaughter than that character entitles him to. The money which he has recovered against Slaughter and sureties, has arisen from the hire of slaves and rent of lands, and is the result of his administration. Successor of an administrator removed on his refusal to give the counter surety, has the rights and powers of an administrator de bonis non. An administrator de bonis non is entitled to every specific article which belonged to the decedent, and which is not disposed of or converted into money by the first administrator. Such articles have not been administered, and the administrator de bonis non acquires the same interest in them that the first administrator had. But not so with the price of the articles already administered or converted into money. As to their price, the administrator de bonis non is not entitled to have an account against the first administrator or his representatives, as held heretofore by this court,  Graves v. Downey, 3 Monroe, 356. Administrator de bonis non is entitled to the chattels of the deceased remaining in specie, but not to the proceeds of those sold nor to hire of slaves. As the bill therefore claims, and the complainants have obtained a decree, not for goods or chattels unadministered, but for an account for monies, arising as the result of Slaughter's administration, and from his undertakings as guardian to rent out the lands and receive the rents, the decree giving the whole to Froman is erroneous. His claim in right of his wife for her distributive share is next to be considered, and that amounts to one-third of the pensonalty. But even for this she and her husband can not be entitled to a decree against the sureties of Slaughter; because they are the sureties of herself also; and it would be absurd to permit her to recover against her own sureties, a sum which she would be bound to restore to them if they had it to pay. It is true that one administrator or executor is not liable at common law for the other. But it is equally true that when they enter into a joint bond, as here is the case, although one of them does not act, or wastes the estate, yet that one, by the express letter of the bond remains liable for the faithful administration of the estate, and that, not as surety only, but as principal. Hence, if a recovery on this bond should be had against one or both these sureties, they might reocver the amount thereof, not only from Slaughter, but from Mrs. Froman also. These sureties may be bound as well as Mrs. Froman to remaining distributees. But as to Mrs. Froman, she can not be permitted to recover against sureties, who have entered into engagements, not only for Slaughter, but for her also. This accords with the principles adopted by this court in the case of  South's heirs v. Hoy's heirs, 3 Monroe, 95. As to Froman himself, by his marriage he has become liable to the legal responsibilities incurred by his wife, and as he claims this estate through her, he can not recover where she can not. The decree, therefore, against the sureties is wholly erroneous, and the bill as to them, in behalf of Froman and wife, ought to have been dismissed. *3 Sureties of the widow and her co-administrator, in their administration bond, are not liable for her distributive share of the chattels collected and converted by her co-administrator. But Froman and wife can maintain their bill against Slaughter alone for her distributive share, and to do so, the remaining distributees ought to be made parties, for it is clear, that one distributee of an intestate's estate is not entitled to account and distribution of the estate without bringing all the distributees before the court. In such case the co-administrator, and he only, is liable to her. The decree must, therefore, be reversed, with costs, and the cause be remanded with directions to dismiss the bill as to the sureties with costs, and also to dismiss the bill as to Slaughter with costs, and without prejudice to any future suit for the same cause, unless the complainants shall bring the remaining distributees before the court in a reasonable time given for that purpose. In a bill for the widow's distributive share the other distributees must be parties. Guthrie, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1827. Slaughter v. Froman 5 T.B.Mon. 19, 21 Ky. 19, 1827 WL 1493 (Ky.), 17 Am.Dec. 33 END OF DOCUMENT
