(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 28,  19 Ky. 28 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1183 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jenkins and Wife v. Morton, &c. Nov. 12, 1825. *1 Parties. Pleading. Misjoinder. Demurrer. Error. APPEAL FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 187(2) 95 Contracts 95II Construction and Operation 95II(B) Parties 95k185 Rights Acquired by Third Persons 95k187 Agreement for Benefit of Third  Person 95k187(2) k. Contract to Pay Money to a Third  Person. Most Cited Cases Where a covenant is given to one that a sum of money shall be paid to another, the action must be in the name of the covenantee, who holds the legal interest. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement. Jenkins and wife joined in an action of covenant against the defendants below. The writing was executed by the defendants alone. As set out in the declaration, it recites that Jenkins alone had sold and delivered to the defendants a negro man slave, at the price of six hundred and fifty dollars, and had paid fifty thereof; and that the negro was devised and directed to be sold by the will of W. S. Parker, who claimed him, and the proceeds thereof directed to be paid to the use of the children of the plaintiff's wife, and that Alexander Parker claimed the slave. The defendants then stipulated and bound themselves to set apart and place in trust, in such manner as might be perfectly safe for all parties, as soon as the instalments were all paid, six shares in the Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank of Lexington, and cause them to remain subject to be transferred to the children of said Jenkins' wife, or the said A. Parker, or whosoever else might be entitled ultimately thereto; and so soon as it might be ascertained to whom the said slave belonged, the aforesaid shares should be assigned, according to law, to such person, on request. Covenant declared on. In the mean time, during the life of said Jenkins, the defendants bound themselves to pay to him and wife the regular half yearly dividend of said six shares, unless it should happen in the mean time that A. Parker, said Jenkins' children, or other claimant, should wrest the fund from the hands of such trustee, as it might be lodged with, or from the defendants. But the defendants covenanted that the regular half yearly dividends should be paid to said Jenkins and wife after the first day of January, then next ensuing, and so much as should fall due or be an equal proportion until the said first day of January. Breaches were assigned, or attempted to be assigned, of nearly every covenant in the writing. The defendants demurred, and the court sustained the demurrer, and the plaintiffs below appealed. Judgment of the circuit court. It has been here insisted that the breaches or some of them assigned are good, and on the contrary, that they are all ill assigned. We have thought it unnecessary to determine on the sufficiency of the breaches, further than to remark that some of them are of a doubtful character. For there is a previous question, which must determine the fate of the writ. We can not conceive the propriety of uniting the wife of Jenkins with him in the action. It is true, there are stipulations therein for her benefit; but there are likewise some in favor of her children, and one contingently in favor of A. Parker, and it might, with as much propriety be insisted, that they should be co-plaintiffs; indeed, if the wife must be plaintiff, the declaration is defective in not including her children, and if the wife can not be plaintiff, then the action can not be sustained. We view this as a covenant with Jenkins alone, for the benefit not only of himself, but of his wife and children, and it is a well settled rule, where a covenant is given to one for the benefit of a third person, or stipulating that a sum of money shall be paid to such third person, the action must be brought in the name of the covenantee who holds the legal interest, and can not be maintained by such third person, who is entitled to an equity only, nor can such third person be joined in a legal action. *2 Where a covenant is given to one that a sum of money shall be paid to another, the action must be in the name of the covenantee who holds the legal interest, and of him only.  Trustees of Perryville v. Letcher, 1 Mon. roe 13. In such case, if the person to whom it was covenanted the money should be paid be joined, the declaration will be ill on general demurrer. The appellant, therefore, having joined with him a person who can not be joined, and having shewn that on the face of his own proceedings, it must be fatal to the action on general demurrer. The judgment must therefore be affirmed with costs. Payne for appellants. Ky.App. 1825. Jenkins v. Morton 3 T.B.Mon. 28, 19 Ky. 28, 1825 WL 1183 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
