(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 273,  19 Ky. 273 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1293 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hart v. Bleight, &c. Oct. 5, 1826. *1 Sheriffs' Sales. Consideration. Pleading. Proofs. Rescission of Contracts. Possession. Notice. APPEAL FROM THE HARDIN CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 250 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(B) Opening or Vacating 161k250 k. Inadequacy of Price. Most Cited  Cases Inadequacy of price is not sufficient evidence of fraud to vitiate a sale on execution. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 112(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k106 Right to Rescind 400k112 Defect in Title of  Vendor 400k112(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a vendee of land takes possession under an executory contract for a conveyance on payment of the purchase money, and neglects to pay for a year, and the land is sold on execution against the vendor, the vendee cannot, on that account, obtain a rescission of the contract. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a bill in chancery brought by the vendee enjoining judgments at law for the purchase money, and to rescind and set aside a contract for the sale of land, Its features are similar in nearly every respect to, and it rests on the same equity precisely with the case of Terry v. Bleight, &c. just decided. Of course, the opinion rendered in that case will apply to this, and be decisive of the controversy. Case stated to be the same of the next preceding, and decided on its principle. Except that in this case, the judgment is produced under which the land was sold by execution against Bleight. Exceptions, &c. It thereby appears, that Bleight, by the verdict of a jury, had been defeated in a suit which he had brought, and judgment was rendered against him for costs, and on the emanation of an execution, it was levied on a tract of 98,000 acres of land, about 81,000 acres of which was sold under the execution for a sum not quite $25, and this is the sale set up in the bill. As Bleight according to the complainant's own showing, had previously sold 100 acres of this land to the complainant for $320, it was evident that the price was very inadequate, and bore a small proportion to the number of acres, and this is all the evidence adduced by Bleight to show that the sale was fraudulent. Facts of the sheriff's sale. From inadequacy of price, a probable presumption of fraud may be created; but it was never held per se sufficient to vitiate a sale, and it may be explained away, and accounted for, even where the estate sold is valued, and in this case when the value or goodness of a title, or its reputation is wholly unknown to the court, except the 100 acres of it previously sold to the complainant, the presumption is greatly weakened, and we cannot sustain this ground as sufficient to pronounce the sale fraudulent. *2 Inadequacy of price is not sufficient to vitiate a sale by execution. It has been urged in argument that this sale under execution has been declared void, both at law and equity, and the sale pronounced void in a direct controversy between Bleight and the purchaser, brought for that purpose, and that these decisions are known on the records of this court. We may know this, as men, and even as a court; but we are not at liberty to introduce it into this record as evidence for the defendant in chancery. The defendant has not filed or relied upon it, and we can not be of counsel so far as to introduce this evidence in his favor. In the decision we have to give, we are confined to this record alone, and the evidence there adduced, and upon that alone we can not pronounce the sale void, especially as the onus probandi, indubitably lies on the party opposing it, and his allegations are not sufficient. If the defendant in a bill for a rescission of a contract for land, because of a sale under execution against vendor would rely, that the sheriff's sale had been set aside in a direct proceeding, he must aver and shew it; to urge it in argument will not do. Judges can not in deciding one case look into other causes in court for evidence. But there are other grounds relied on to avoid the effects of this sale. The sale was made to the complainant on the 30th of April, 1814, and Bleight gave his bond to convey on the 1st of April, 1818, the day when the last payment became due, reserving the right of not conveying on that day if the last installment was not paid, by deed of quit claim with warranty against himself and those claiming under him only. The judgment under which the land was sold was not obtained against Bleight till March, 1819. Execution issued on the 30th of the same month, and the sale was made by the sheriff on the 29th day of April, 1819. Statement of facts, date, &c. It is therefore insisted, that as the complainant withheld the last payment as well as others, and might by paying them have obtained his title a year before there was any execution to touch the land, he has by his own laches brought his land into danger, and is therefore, not entitled to the aid of a court of chancery, when he seeks to set aside the contract. Ground relied on against the rescission. It is further urged that the bond, which the complainant held on Bleight long before the sale, gave him an equity in the land long prior to any execution against it, and that it is in proof that as he resided upon the land ever after his purchase, and long before the sale by execution, his residence was notice of his equity to the purchaser under execution, and that this equity can force the legal title from the purchaser, if the sale by execution is a good one, and that he ought to be bound to do so, especially as by his own default in not paying the price, he has got into the dilemma. Where vendee takes possession under a contract for a conveyance when the purchase money is paid, and failing in the payment for a year, the land is sold under a fi. fa. against vendor, he can not for that cause have a rescission--He must first pursue the purchaser for the title-- *3 In some of this reasoning there is much force. He has applied to the chancellor to set aside this contract, which the chancellor may grant, or refuse, as the merits of the complainant's case require. If he has been in default so as to bring himself into a difficulty, it is but correct in the chancellor to refuse his aid. If he hereafter pays up the money, and Bleight cannot convey him the title which he stipulated to convey, he can have his remedy at law to recover for the breach, or a bill in equity for a specific performance in which he may make the purchaser under execution a party, and extract from him, if he can, the title acquired by the sheriff's sale. If he fail in that (of which query) then, his case will be complete. It does appear in this cause that he resided on the land since his purchase from Bleight, and has not been disturbed, which may be sufficient notice to the purchaser at sheriff's sale of his equity. Whether he can succeed against that purchaser by such bill, we need not now inquire. For if he cannot, his remedy against Bleight will then be complete, and we cannot conceive that it will impose too heavy a penalty on his defalcations to compel him to try the experiment, and to refuse to relieve him now. Possession of vendee by executory contract, is notice to subsequent purchaser. The decree must, therefore, be affirmed, with costs and damages. Hardin, for appellant; Darby, for appellees. Ky.App. 1826. Hart v. Bleight 3 T.B.Mon. 273, 19 Ky. 273, 1826 WL 1293 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
