(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 52,  17 Ky. 52 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1480 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. White v. Sergeant of the Court of Appeals, for the use of Gillingham, &c. Oct. 8, 1824. *1 Insolvent Debtor's Estate, Sheriff, Sergeant. ERROR TO THE GENERAL COURT: JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 450(1) 161 Execution 161XV Execution Against the Person 161k450 Discharge on Surrender of or Disclosure as to Property 161k450(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Choses in action of a debtor arrested by a ca. sa. from the general court, and discharged under the insolvent laws, vest in the sheriff, and an action to recover them must be brought in the name of the sheriff in the county where the debtor resides. Execution 161 k 450(10) 161 Execution 161XV Execution Against the Person 161k450 Discharge on Surrender of or Disclosure as to Property 161k450(10) k. Hearing, Determination, Discharge, and Review.  Most Cited Cases The estate in possession of a debtor arrested by a ca. sa. from the general court and discharged under the insolvent laws vests in the sheriffs of the counties where it is situated. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. A debtor was committed under a capias ad satisfaciendum from the general court, and he surrendered his schedule and took the oath of insolvency. In his schedule a debt was given up as due by the plaintiff in error. A summons was then issued in the name of the sergeant of the court of appeals, for the use of the original creditors, against the plaintiff in error, and judgment thereon was rendered by default, for the amount of the debt named in the schedule; and to reverse this judgment, this writ of error is prosecuted. (1.) The only question deemed worthy of notice, is, can such proceedings be had in the name of the sergeant, as are maintained in other courts, whose jurisdiction is confined to the respective counties, in the names of their respective sheriff? (1) The estate in possession of a debtor arrested by a ca. sa. from the general court and discharged under the insolvent laws, does not vest in the sergeant, but in the sheriffs of the several counties where it is situated. As the sergeant was intended to stand in the same relation to, and perform the same duties in this and the general court, as the sheriffs of the several counties sustain and perform to and for their respective courts, and to be a state officer for the courts of general jurisdiction, as the sheriffs are officers of the counties, we are inclined, by the analogy of the cases, to affix to the sergeant the same powers and duties as sheriff, so far as any liberal interpretation of the acts of assembly creating that office and defining his powers and duties, will permit; but to substitute the sergeant for the sheriff of every county, in this instance, extends beyond construction. By the execution law, which regulates the estate surrendered by insolvents, the lands, tenements, hereditaments, and all goods and chattels whatsoever, in the schedule contained, shall be vested in the sheriff of the county wherein they are situated. 1 Dig. L. K. 491. There is no clause relative to sergeants, which thus vests the title of the estate surrendered, nor is there any clause which repeals this investiture in the sheriffs, in cases of execution from the general court; nor can an implied repeal be urged, from the language used. Of course, the title is vested in the sheriffs of the respective counties where the goods and chattels are found, in the cases of executions from the general court, as well as other courts, and in their names the proceedings must be had, and not in the name of the sergeant. It is true, that the title of chattels executed, or a qualified property therein, is said to be in the sheriff until sold. This may hold equally true with regard to the sergeant. But this is by common law, and the case we are now considering is a vesting of title, in a special case, by statute, and the estate must go as the statute has directed, in all such cases, until the legislature shall point out the cases where the title shall vest in a different officer. *2 (2.) It follows, therefore, that the demand here recovered was vested in the sheriff of the county where the plaintiff in error, who was charged with the debt, resided, and that the proceedings ought to have been had in his name, and not the name of the sergeant, who had no legal title to the debt. (2) The choses in action of an insolvent debtor discharged from imprisonment by a ca. sa. from the general court, vest in the sheriffs. The proceeding to recover them must be in the name of the sheriff of the county where the debtor of the insolvent resides, not in the sergeant's name. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs against the relators, who have sued in the name of the sergeant, and the cause be remanded, with directions there to dismiss the proceedings with costs. Monroe, for plaintiff; Bibb, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. White v. Sergeant of Court of Appeals 1 T.B.Mon. 52, 17 Ky. 52, 1824 WL 1480 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
