(Cite as: 4 Litt. 215,  14 Ky. 215 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1257 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Clift v. Stockdon. Oct. 18, 1823. *1 FROM THE MASON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. ADAM BEATTY SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Landlord and Tenant 233 k 556 233 Landlord and Tenant 233II Leases and Agreements in General 233II(A) Requisites and Validity 233k556 k. Recording lease or contract. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k26) An unrecorded lease for 10 years is void altogether against creditors of the lessor. Implied and Constructive Contracts 205H k 70 205H Implied and Constructive Contracts 205HI Nature and Grounds of Obligation 205HI(E) Defenses and Persons Entitled or Liable 205Hk70 k. Defenses. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 264k12  Money Received) Plaintiff being in possession of land under a void lease, the land was sold under execution against the lessor, and was bought jointly by plaintiff, defendant, and one other. Plaintiff retained possession for five years, claiming under his lease, and then vacated the premises. Defendant and the other purchaser thereupon took possession, leased the premises, and received the entire rent for six years, in equal proportions. Plaintiff brought this suit to recover his share, as tenant in common, of the money received by defendant for rent, to which defendant pleaded in set-off the amount due him for the five years of plaintiff's possession. Plaintiff objected that the amount of such set-off was due from him to the other purchaser and defendant jointly and had never been liquidated.  Held that, though the objection was valid, yet it could not be allowed, since the same facts showed that plaintiff should have brought a bill in equity or an action of account, and hence plaintiff could only recover his proportion of the rents received by defendant, less defendant's share of the value of plaintiff's former use and occupation of the premises. Partnership 289 k 301 289 Partnership 289VII Dissolution, Settlement, and Accounting 289VII(C) Distribution and Settlement Between Partners and Their Representatives 289k301 k. Inventory and valuation of assets. Most Cited  Cases Where property under lease is sold by execution, and purchased by several persons as partners, the sum for which it was leased is not the criterion of the profits, in a subsequent settlement between them. Appeal and Error 30 k 882(12) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(C) Parties Entitled to Allege Error 30k881 Estoppel to Allege Error 30k882 Error Committed or Invited by Party  Complaining 30k882(12) k. Instructions in general. Most Cited  Cases A party cannot predicate error on instructions given at his own request. BIBB for appellant; no attorney for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Robert Barnes, in the month of March, 1808, by articles of agreement, never recorded, leased for a considerable rent, a mill and one hundred acres of land, to James Saunders, for the term of ten years next ensuing. Saunders, during the same summer, sold and assigned the lease to Peck and Stockdon, the appellee, and Peck shortly afterwards transferred his interest to Stockdon, who took possession and resided thereon. At the close of the same year, sundry executions of fieri facias against Barnes, in favor of different persons, were levied upon the land, and it was sold in discharge of them. At the sale, Stockdon shewed and asserted his lease, and contended that it was valid against the executions for at least five years of the term. However, Stockdon, Miles W. Conway and Clift, the appellant. agreed to purchase the land jointly, and Stockdon bid it off, for himself and partners, and the sheriff conveyed it to them. Conway and Clift, both insisted at the sale, that the lease was invalid against the executions, for any length of time contrary to the opinion of Stockdon; and this matter does not appear to have been agreed between the purchasers then or since, although they purchased the estate together. Stockdon continued to hold possession till the five years were ended; but owing to Barnes' not having complied with his contract in rebuilding the dam, the mill became idle and useless during that time. Stockdon then left the premises, and Conway and Clift leased them to some other person for two years, at the rate of one hundred dollars per annum, which was paid to them in equal proportions. After these two years, they extended the lease four years more, at the rate of one hundred and twenty dollars per annum, and likewise received the rent in equal proportions. Stockdon then brought this action of assumpsit against Clift, for his proportionate part of the rent received,?? during these six years, and among other counts, inserted one for money had and received to his use; which is the only count which can embrace the case, among the numerous counts inserted in the declaration. On the issue of non-assumpsit, the jury found a verdict for Stockdon, whereon a judgment was rendered, from which this appeal is prayed. An unrecorded lease for 10 years, not good against creditors for 5 years, nor for any time whatever; as to them, it is void altogether. Where property under lease is sold by execution and purchased by several persons as partners, the sum which it was leased for is not the criterion by which a settlement is to be made by them, between themselves, of the profits derived from it. The plaintiff in an action for money had and received, will not be permitted to recover more than he ought in justice to recover, on the ground that the subject-matter which tends to diminish the amount of his recovery, was not a proper subject of set-off, as being unliquidated damages or otherwise. After the proof of the foregoing facts, the counsel for Clift, the appellant, moved the court to instruct the jury, 1st, that after the purchase made by the three partners, at the sheriff's sale, the purchasers became entitled to the annual rents of the premises accruing under the lease from Barnes to Saunders; 2d, that the plaintiff below ought not to recover more in this suit, than he would in equity and good conscience be entitled to, as a tenant in common, after allowing the defendant so much as in justice and good conscience he would be entitled to for the five years which the appellee held the premises. *3 Such reason would be at least equally availing to prove that he ought to have brought an action of account or bill in equity, instead of an action of assumpsit, as to prove that in the action he had brought he ought to recover more than he was entitled to. The court gave the first, but refused the second of these instructions. The appellant excepted, and assigns this refusal as error. We concur with the court below in supposing, as is done in the first instruction, that the lease for ten years, unrecorded, was not good against the execution for five years. For our act of assembly,  (1 Litt., 565), in its first section, makes every unrecorded deed, for a longer term than five years, invalid against any creditor. Of course, as the lease was for a longer term, it was invalid, and we do not suppose that it is good for part of the term, and bad for the residue. The question is, in such case, is the term not longer than five years? If it is, no part of it is valid against the execution. But we differ from that court in supposing that the purchasers became entitled to the annual rents of the premises accruing under the lease from Barnes to Saunders, or that the rent fixed by that lease, formed any criterion of rent to be fixed on the premises after the sale. If we suppose Saunders still to have held the lease and the possession at the time of the sale, instead of Stockdon, he would not by the sale have become the tenant of the purchasers, or been bound to account to them for the rents at that price. His lease, as to them, would have been void, and he would have been bound to surrender the possession. If the lease could not have operated in his favor, to aid him as against the purchasers, to retain the possession, so, on the principles of reciprocity, he could not be bound to them by it. Such then was the situation of Stockdon, after the purchase, as to his co-purchasers. If they were not bound by the lease, he, if he retained the possession, could not be bound to account to them for their proportion of the rents, according to the terms of the lease; but to such reasonable rent, as the premises would in their then situation command. But notwithstanding this difference of opinion, we can not reverse the case, because the first instruction was given, although it is erroneous; because it was obtained on the application of the appellant, and, therefore, he has no right to complain of it. We have considered this matter only for the purpose of excluding from the second instruction, which was refused, or our consideration of it, the idea that the rents prayed by that instruction to be discounted against the appellee's demand, were to be counted according to the criterion fixed by the lease. For if the second instruction asked, contemplated the discounting of the rent against the appellate at that rate, as the court below seems to have considered it, we should have no hesitation in deeming that court right in refusing the instruction. For, as the first instruction actually given, was erroneous, but the second refused, for other reasons, to give it any effect, we could not reverse the case even if those reasons were wrong; for, however grievously the court might have erred in the first opinion, if in the second that error was wiped away, there ought to be no reversal. But we do not consider the words of the last instruction as asked and refused, as necessarily implying that the rents for which the defendant below was entitled to a credit, consisted of the same sum as that reserved by the lease; but as claiming a credit for so much as in justice and good conscience he would be entitled to for the five years during which the appellee held the land. *4 A man can not assign for error in the court of appeals, an erroneous instruction obtained on his own application. It does seem too clear a proposition to admit of a doubt, that while the appellee was seeking to recover of the appellant a portion of the rents, he ought only to be permitted to recover out of the same subject-matter, what the appellant had received of an excess beyond his proportion, without regard to any rules governing pleas, and notices of discount and set-off. The appellee could not be entitled to commence his proof at any point of time, while rents progressed, disregarding what had previously transpired, during which he had been the receiver. The subject was an entire one, and could not, and ought not to be thus taken fractionally,?? and that decision could not be right, which permitted it thus to be done. It may be said in reply to this, as is said in the opinion of the court below, that the rents had not been liquidated, which had accrued during the time of the appellee, and that they were all in his hands, and due to the appellant and Conway jointly, and, therefore, could not be a good set-off against this separate demand as to the appellant. These objections are clearly valid and sound. But the admission of their validity, clearly proves, that the appellee was in the same situation as to his whole cause of action, and that he could no more support his cause of action, than the appellant could his defense; that although he might be allowed to recover in an action of account or bill of equity, yet he was not entitled to recover in this action of assumpsit, in which it is evident he has recovered for part of a joint subject in contest, without settling the whole. As he then placed himself in this attitude, by improperly coming into court, he could not be entitled to any opinion from the court which implied he had a right to recover, excluding what in conscience lessened the demand, arising from its own nature and not from the principles governing set-offs and discounts, as the refusal to give the instruction asked, evidently did. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed, and the verdict be set aside with costs, and the cause must be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with the principles of this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Clift v. Stockdon 4 Litt. 215, 14 Ky. 215, 1823 WL 1257 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
