(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 139,  22 Ky. 139 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1650 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Dowell's Adm'r, Heirs and Devisees v. Lawless. Oct. 27, 1827. *1 Parties in Chancery. Equity Jurisdiction. Devises and Descents of Slaves. Presumptions. ERROR TO THE WARREN CIRCUIT; HENRY P. BROADNAX, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 43 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k43 k. Personal Property in General. Most Cited  Cases Slaves specifically devised vested in the devisee, and did not go to the executor as assets. Executors and Administrators 162 k 43 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k43 k. Personal Property in General. Most Cited  Cases Where there was no will, or where slaves were not specifically devised, they passed to the personal representative as assets of the estate. Executors and Administrators 162 k 438(5) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k438 Parties 162k438(5) k. Legatees, Heirs, and Distributees as Parties  in General. Most Cited Cases After the death of a surviving obligor in a lost bond during the pendency of a suit to enforce payment, his personal representatives, heirs, and devisees should be made parties, the representatives of deceased devisees and heirs of the obligors should also be made parties. Descent and Distribution 124 k 125.1 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(C) Debts of Intestate and Incumbrances on Property 124k125 Liabilities on Descent of Real Property 124k125.1 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 124k125) A personal estate in slaves in the hands of the personal representatives will be liable before the real estate devised or descended. Descent and Distribution 124 k 144 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(C) Debts of Intestate and Incumbrances on Property 124k137 Action Against Heirs, Distributees, or Purchasers 124k144 k. Parties. Most Cited  Cases After the death of the surviving obligor in a lost bond, pending a suit in chancery to enforce the payment, his personal representatives, heirs, and devisees should be made parties. The representatives of deceased devisees and heirs of the obligors are also to be made parties. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The complainant below, now defendant in error, filed his bill, setting up two lost bonds or notes, executed to him by William M'Dowell and Samuel J. M'Dowell, and recovered a decree. Object of the bill; defendants made, and defect of parties. *2 When he filed his bill William M'Dowell was dead, and Samuel was his executor, and in that capacity as well as in his individual character, and as heir and devisee of William M'Dowell, he was made defendant, and the remaining heirs and devisees were made defendants. Pending the suit, Samuel J. M'Dowell died, and the suit, as to him, abated, and the complainant did not bring either his personal or legal representatives before the court. William S. M'Dowell, another devisee and heir of William M'Dowell, was dead before the suit, and his legal representatives or devisees were made parties, but his personal representatives were not. For these defects in want of parties the decree can not be sustained. The complainant's bill in equity is a substitute for an action at law, under the act of Assembly which allows heirs and devisees to be sued jointly with executors or administrators, in actions which would theretofore lie against executors and administrators alone; and were it not for the loss of his bond, which gives a court of equity jurisdiction over it, to relieve against the accident; his exclusive remedy would be an action at law. The loss of a bond gives a court of equity jurisdiction to enforce the payment. When the heirs or devisees are sued in such case, either in law or chancery, it is proper that all should be sued, and that the plaintiff should not select a part only. Whatever may be the case in a suit at law, it is indubitably proper that in equity all should be made parties, especially as a court of equity acts according to its own principles and generally refuses to act unless all concerned in interest are brought before the court. In suits against heirs and devisees, at law or in chancery, it is proper that all should be made defendants; in chancery it is indispensable. Samuel J. M'Dowell's legal representatives were proper parties, not only because he was the surviving obligor, but on account of his having been a devisee and heir of William M'Dowell, and of course his heirs and devisees succeed to his rights as heir and devisee of William M'Dowell his co-obligor, and they ought to be combined with other devisees; and as his personal estate and slaves, are first liable in law as a co-obligor, and ought to be employed to relieve the realty, his personal representative, if any he has, ought to be brought before the court. After the death of a surviving obligor in a lost bond, pending a suit in chancery to enforce the payment, his personal representatives, heirs and devisees should be made parties. The representatives of deceased devisees and heirs of the obligors should also, be parties. For the same reason the personal representative of William S. M'Dowell ought to be brought in. His chattels and slaves may be sufficient to relieve the charge descended upon him, by the act of his father, and his personal representative would be right thus to employ it. By the will of William M'Dowell, slaves are specifically devised to him. They accordingly, under the act of Assembly, which makes them pass as real estate by devise, went directly to him, free from the control of the personal representative of William M'Dowell, and would of course have to be reached in his hands as devisee, if he were living. On his death, if they were not specifically devised, they would go to his personal representative, and his will is not shewn to inform us whether these slaves went to the personal representative or his devisees, and we can not presume the latter unless it was shewn. *3 The personal estate and slaves in the hands of the personal representatives will be liable before the real estate devised or descended. We observe in the will of William M'Dowell, that William S. M'Dowell is directed to pay the debts of the testator, William M'Dowell. But whether this direction must be construed to be a personal charge on William, as a debt of his own, or a charge on the estate devised, or as a condition on which he is to take the estate devised, we have not thought it necessary to inquire; for in either case his chattels and slaves which may go to his personal representative, is a proper fund to be applied as a relief to the real estate taken by him from William M'Dowell. Slaves devised, pass as real estate, immediately to the devisee; if not specifically devised they pass to the personal representatives. It may also be remarked that Samuel J. M'Dowell was, for a time at least, the executor of William. Whatever of the goods of his testator he had administered and converted into money, mingles itself with his estate on his death, and goes to his personal representative, and must be reached there. A specific devise of slaves will not be presumed in the absence of the will. The decree is reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill with costs and without prejudice to a future suit, unless the complainant shall, in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court below, so amend his proceedings as to bring the proper parties before the court. Mandate. Mayes, Monroe and Denny, for plaintiffs; Crittenden and Wickliffe, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. McDowell's Adm'rs v. Lawless 6 T.B.Mon. 139, 22 Ky. 139, 1827 WL 1650 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
