(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 253,  10 Ky. 253 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1052 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Porter's Heirs v. William Robinson. Apr. 7, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judicial Sales 229 k 54 229 Judicial Sales 229k49 Title and Rights of Purchasers 229k54 k. Modification, vacation, or reversal of judgment, decree, or order. Most Cited Cases Where a conveyance was made under a decree in chancery, and the decree was afterwards reversed, but the reversal was not consummated by a reconveyance, it was held that the conveyance was still good in law. Judicial Sales 229 k 61 229 Judicial Sales 229k61 k. Conveyance to purchaser. Most Cited Cases A deed made in pursuance of a decree in chancery is good, although no other consideration is expressed. Witnesses 410 k 97 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k91 Interest of Party or Other Person 410k97 k. Liability on warranty or other liability over.  Most Cited Cases A man who has given a bond for the conveyance of land, with warranty against all persons claiming under himself, and afterwards conveys the same land to another person under a decree in chancery, is a competent witness for either party. Dower and Curtesy 136 k 23 136 Dower and Curtesy 136I In General 136k23 k. Priorities. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 136k24) A dower estate partakes of the nature of the estate of the husband;  and, if his estate is only equitable, it must yield to a legal estate in another, and be subject to the same recovery that it would have been in the possession of the husband, if he were living. Ejectment 142 k 50 142 Ejectment 142II Jurisdiction, Parties, Process, and Incidental Proceedings 142k50 k. Intervention and bringing in new parties. Most Cited Cases The possession of a widow, remaining in the mansion house until her dower is allotted, is consistent with the possession of the heirs;  and, in an ejectment brought against her, they have a right to defend. Infants 211 k 1237(5) 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1237 Appointment in  General 211k1237(5) k. Effect of appointment and failure  to procure. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 211k87) A judgment against infants, for whom it does not appear that a guardian ad litem was appointed, is voidable, not void, the omission being an irregularity only. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an ejectment, wherein a judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff below, now appellee, against the appellants, then defendants. On the trial, the plaintiff gave in evidence a patent to Mayo, and a subsequent deed from Mayo to Green Clay, and then a deed from Green Clay to the lessor of the plaintiff; and proved that these deeds and patent covered the land demanded. When the deed from Clay to the lessor of the plaintiff was introduced, the counsel for defendants objected to its being read, because it expressed no adequate consideration. The court overruled the objection, and we conceive rightly. The deed purported to be made in obedience to a decree of the Madison circuit court, in a suit in chancery, wherein Thomas C. Howard was complainant and the present defendants below, the heirs of Robert Porter, deceased, and Green Clay were defendants. Which decree had directed the sale of the land in question by commissionerswho had sold it to the present lessor of the plaintiff, to whom the court decreed that Green Clay should make the conveyance, he, Green Clay, holding the legal estate. This was a very adequate consideration to support the title. Besides, immediately after the deed, the lessor of the plaintiff introduced and read the decree itself, and report of the sale by commissioners acting under the decree. The deed was therefore properly admitted. *2 A deed made in pursuance of a sale under a decree is good, though no other consideration is expressed. It was admitted by the plaintiff's counsel, that the infant heirs of Robert Porter, deceased, who were defendants in this cause, and who were also defendants in said chancery suit, had, in that suit, no guardian appointed to defend for them. On this admission, the defendants moved the court to reject the decree as invalid on that account. The court overruledthe objection. If the decree of the court against infants, then offered in evidence, was invalid, because no guardian was appointed to defend for them, then the decision of the court below is erroneous. If, on the contrary, the decree was valid until reversed--was voidable only and not void, then the decision of the court is correct. Many of the acts of infants themselves in pais, are void, and others voidable only. But with regard to judicial acts done against them, the rule is, that they are voidable only. The infant defendant has his day, frequently allowed him, almost always in a court of equity, after he comes of age, to reverse or set aside decrees against him. If he does not avail himself of this privilege, the decision stands, and must have its force. Until measures are taken to avoid it it likewise has its effect. From this principle it follows, that the decree was properly admitted. The plaintiff, who proved that Green Clay had given his bond for the land in contest, to Robert Porter, in his life time, which bond had been pledged with Thomas Howard, who had brought the chancery suit aforesaid, to subject the land to sale, and the witnesses introduced by plaintiff, on the interrogation of the defendants' counsel, proved, that the lessor of the plaintiff, at the time he purchased at the sale of commissioners under the decree, understood that there was such a bond given by Clay to Porter, and that Clay had bound himself to Porter for the legal estate. On this proof, the defendants' counsel objected to the deed of Clay to the lessor of the plaintiff as fraudulent because the lessor, as purchaser, had notice of the bond to Porter. It might well be assumed as true, that the lessor of the plaintiff had this notice; for he was purchasing under a decree, the record of which disclosed the whole matter, and directed a conveyance from Clay, in consequence of the bond. Assuming the ground that this was fraud in the lessor of the plaintiff, it would be difficult for the defendants in their attitude, claiming an equity only, to take advantage of it in a court of law. It is decided by this court in the cases of  Gilpin v. Davis, 2 Bibb, 416, and Coleman v. Casey, 1 Marsh. 440, that the holder of a bare equity, can not be permitted in a court of law to impeach the legal estate set up in the plaintiff and that it must be one legal title opposed to another, that can do it; and for the best of reasons. The equitable estate set up, may itself be subject to many equitable objections, and such a one as the chancellor would never enforce. To meet a defense set up under it, the plaintiff in an ejectment would be driven to substantiate these objections, and leave it with a jury to determine whether the equity was such as the chancellor would enforce specifically. Assuming the fact of fraud, the defense was then unavailing. In this case, however, there is not the least pretext for charging the lessor of the plaintiff with it. He was purchasing at the sale of an equity in land, directed by a court of competent jurisdistion fairly; and was bound to know the nature of that equity, which he was about to purchase. Such acts can never be styled fraud. *3 Though infant heirs may not have had a guardian to defend, the decree against them is valid until reversed, it is one of those acts which are voidable, not void--all judicial acts done against infants are voidable only. The holder of a mere equity can not, in a court of law, be permitted to question a legal estate. If a legal title under a decree be made to a bona fide purchaser, and the decree under which the sale was made be reversed, the original holder may be restored to his equity, but the legal estate is not thereby defeated; if the legal title can, in any case, be impeached, it must be in equity, though the party whose property has been sold under a decree has his remedy against the party at whose suit the decree was obtained. The decree aforesaid, and sale under it, and conveyance made in pursuance thereof, was further objected to, on the ground that the decree was reversed, as will be seen by the reported case in 1 Marsh. 358. But before the reversal, Clay had conveyed in pursuance of the decree, and the lessor of the plaintiff had paid the money, and his title was complete. This objection was likewise overruled. This objection appears to be predicated upon the supposition. that the reversal of the decree by this court, not only restored Porter's heirs to their equity, which was lost by it. but also divested the lessor of the plaintiff of the legal title which he had acquired. Assuming it as correct, that the reversal restored to the defendants in this case, their equity it can not be admitted that it stripped the lessor of the plaintiff of the legal estate acquired by his conveyance from Clay. This conveyance was made in pursuance of an existing decree, and is founded, as we have said, on a valuable consideration, at the time, by Green Clay who held the legal estate. It could not be divested by the reversal. At most, it could only give the complainants a claim to that legal estate, which claim could only be demanded in a court of equity. Whether this reversal vested the defendants below with any equitable right to the title in a court of equity, we have not thought it necessary now to decide. We shall only remark that it might be difficult to establish the position, that the reversal of a decree, would, in all cases, unhinge the title of purchasers acquired under it, whatever liabilities it might create against those, who had obtained such an erroneous decree, and disposed of the estate of his opponent, by means of it. This objections was therefore properly overruled. It was proved in the cause that Porter resided on the tract of land till his death, and that his widow, who was one of the defendants in this case, resided there still, and it did not appear that her dower was ever assigned her. The recovery of the lessor of the plaintiff was then objected to, on the ground, that she was entitled to the mansion house and farm till her dower was assigned her, under the act of assembly regulating dowers. Whether a widow, under the laws of this country, is entitled to dower of an equitable estate held by her husband at his decease, is a question not yet settled. We however feel ourselves under no necessity of deciding it now, For assuming the law to be that she is entitled, her estate or right to hold must partake of the nature of the estate, which her deceased husband held, and can not be supposed to arise from the grade of an equitable to a legal estate by force of the statute, Of course it must yield to a legal estate in another, and be subject to the same recovery that it would have been in the hands of her husband, if he was living. It could not, therefore, protect her in a court of law against the legal title of the lessor of the plaintiff. For it can not be pretended that the act of assembly gives such a resident widow a right to the mansion house and farm against all the world, and those who hold superior titles, whatever right it may give her against the heirs of the decedent. *4 An estate in dower partakes of the nature of the estate of the husband, if the estate was only equitable hers can be no more and therefore can not protect her against the demand of one holding the legal estate. During the progress of the trial, Green Clay was offered as a witness on the part of the plaintiff below, and objected to as incompetent. The objection was overruled. We do not perceive the force of the objection. He had given his bond to Porter to convey all his title and right, and no more. In obedience to the decree ,and in the fulfilment of the same bond, he had conveyed to the lessor of the plaintiff, the purchaser with warranty against himself and heirs and all claiming under him only. The objection appears to be predicated on the supposition, that the titles of the plaintiff and defendant in this action, are distinct claims arising from Green Clay. This is not the fact, The lessor of the plaintiff claims the same title in equity which the defendants do, with the addition of the legal estate conveyed by Clay to him, instead of the defendants, in obedience to the decree, and in discharge of the same equity. The decree itself, at once removes the imputation that he conveyed wrongfully, or that he subjected himself to any action on part of the defendants, or lessor of the plaintiff, by doing so nor does it in any manner appear that he could have been subjected to his warranty, if the plaintiff had been defeated in this action. He was therefore properly admitted. A man conveying a title under a decree to lands for which he had before given a bond with special warranty, is liable on his warranty to neither party and therefore is a competent witness. The defendants introduced testimony proving that an adverse claim by patent of younger date covered the land; that a certain John Bone, now one of the defendants, acquired that adverse title by conveyance, and settled on the landholding adverse to Clay's claim--that Clay obtained a judgment in ejectment against Bone, and while the controversy was pending about pay for improvements, Clay sold out to Porter and gave the aforesaid bond. That he directed Porter to settle with Bone about the improvements and the possession, which Porter did do, and got the possession. The counsel for the defendants moved the court to instruct the jury, that if they believed, from the evidence that Bone was settled on the land at the date of Green Clay's deed from Mayo, holding it adversely to Mayo's claim, the deed from Mayo to Clay was void. This instruction was refused. If the fact had been established, that Bone was in the adverse possession of the land before and at the date of Mayo's deed to Clay, the effect of it upon the deed of Mayo, might form a very serious question, under the act of 1788,  2 Litt. 569, unless Porter's entry under Clay, should preclude his heirs from taking advantage of it. But the fact is not made to appear. The deed from Mayo, is dated in 1791; and Bone's deed from the adverse patentee, is in 1797. The bill of exceptions, whether worded artfully or incautiously, states that the defendants proved that Bone settled on the land prior to the date of his own deed, and continued to reside thereon for eight or ten years, and until long after Mayo's deed to Clay. But not one word is said about residing there before or at the date of Mayo's deed. This court has often had to meet with abstract questions made in the progress of causes. They ought never to be regarded by this, or inferior courts. Although a jury shall judge of the weight of evidence, yet the court must judge of its propriety, and what it conduces to prove. If it does not conduce to prove the facts on which an instruction is hypothecated, the instruction ought to be refused,however sound the principles of law advanced may be. On this principle, the instruction asked in the present instance, was refused properly by the court below. Divers others points were made in the progress of the cause, which are not deemed worthy of notice. A new trial was moved for on divers grounds, which, had they been ??ggested before trial, could have been urged even then as doubtful grounds of continuance. One ground however, is, that there was no proof that any of the other defendants, except Mary Porter, the widow, were in possession of the land and yet they were convicted by the verdict. To this, it may be answered, that it appears from their own showing, that they are the heirs of Porter, the deceased--that he died, leaving his family on the land, many or all of them being infants. It does not appear that they have removed and left the house of the widow, and the presumption is as fair as any other, that they remain there still. But independent of this, it appears that the widow resides there unmolested without dower, and only claims a residence till that is assigned her. Of course, the claim of the family, whatever it may be, belongs to the heirs who are admitted to defend. Under such circumstances, their admission as defendants, was proper, and they had a right to be heard in that character, as those who claimed the ultimate right to the land, the possession of the widow being only temporary and consistent with theirs, whether they reside on the land or not. Under such circumstances, if the plaintiffs' title proved superior, they ought to be included in the verdict and judgment, although they did not hold the actual possession, and they ought not, in this fictitious action, to be permitted to say, after they had been heard in full defense of their title, and had put the plaintiff to costs on that account, that they ought to go out and tax him with their costs, because he did not prove them in possession of the land. Upon the whole, we are of opinion there is no error in the judgment of the court below, and it must be affirmed with costs. *5 Abstract questions should never be regarded by the court. The possession of a widow remaining in the mansion house till her dower is allotted is consistent with the possession of the heirs and in an ejectment brought against her they have a right to defend. Bibb for appellant, Pope for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Porter's Heirs v. Robinson 3 A.K.Marsh. 253, 10 Ky. 253, 1821 WL 1052 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 153 END OF DOCUMENT
