(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 457,  10 Ky. 457 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1131 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Alvin Barlow v. Elisha Wiley et al. Jun. 4, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE BRACKEN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 238 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(B) Parties 228k236 Judgment Against One or More Coparties 228k238 k. Actions on contract. Most Cited  Cases In actions ex contractu against several, where one defendant interposes a defense personal to himself, recovery may be had against the others. Pleading 302 k 409(3) 302 Pleading 302XVIII Waiver or Cure of Defects and Objections 302k409 Waiver of Objections to Plea or Answer or Want Thereof 302k409(3) k. Pleading over and trial on merits. Most Cited  Cases Where a plea impeaching the consideration of a covenant on the ground of fraud is defective, in that it fails to set forth the facts in which the fraud consists, the defect is waived by plaintiff if he pleads over. Sales 343 k 43(5) 343 Sales 343I Requisites and Validity of Contract 343k42 Misrepresentation and Fraud by Buyer 343k43 In General 343k43(5) k. Representations as to value. Most Cited  Cases Where a person makes a contract for the purchase of an article, and at the time of the contract represents the article to be of less value than it really is, the contract cannot be impeached on that ground. Sales 343 k 416(1) 343 Sales 343VIII Remedies of Buyer 343VIII(C) Actions for Breach of Contract 343k414 Evidence 343k416 Admissibility 343k416(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases In a suit on a contract to furnish staves, the defendant pleaded fraud in obtaining the contract, and adduced proof that the plaintiff had made other similar contracts, and had prosecuted suits to trial thereon, and that he had said that any party must lose who should contract to furnish staves at that price. Held, that the evidence was irrelevant, and would not support the defense. Contracts 95 k 338(1) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k338 Plea, Answer, or Affidavit of Defense in  General 95k338(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases A plea impeaching the consideration of a covenant on the ground of fraud should set forth the facts in which the alleged fraud consists, or it will be bad on demurrer. Contracts 95 k 345 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k345 k. Replication or reply and subsequent pleadings. Most  Cited Cases Where, in a suit on a contract, the defendant pleads that it was procured by fraud, but does not set forth the facts in which the fraud consists, and the plaintiff traverses the plea, the plaintiff thereby waives the defect in the plea, and the defendant may prove any fraud which was perpetrated. Infants 211 k 1059 211 Infants 211III Contracts 211k1054 Requisites, Validity, Operation, and Effect of Contracts 211k1059 k. Persons entitled to ratify or avoid. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k58(1)) An infant may enter into a contract with others and be jointly sued thereon, but on his discharge under plea of infancy the others cannot be acquitted. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 The declaration in this case, is on a convenant which stipulated on part of the defendants below, to deliver to the plaintiff in that court, fifty thousand, good, merchantable, pipe staves, with a proportionate quantity of heading, or staves in place of the heading, to-wit:--12,000 staves or two hundred pieces of heading to each thousand, of the following description: The staves to be five feet long, four inches wide, one and one half inches thick--the heading of the same thickness, and twenty-eight inches long, of good, sound, white oak timber, all of which was to be delivered at Cincinnati, on or before a given day. The breach assigned was in the non-performance of the foregoing stipulations. The defendants, who were three in number, appeared, and one of them, by a separate plea, set up infancy, on which issue was joined denying the infancy. They then all joined in a plea which alleges that the plaintiff ought not to sustain his action, because they say the said covenant in the declaration was obtained from them by fraud, covin, and misrepresentation. To this plea the plaintiff replied that "the covenant in the declaration mentioned, was not obtained from said defendants by fraud, covin and misrepresentation of said plaintiff;" and he tendered an issue to the country. In another joint plea they all allege "that said writing was obtained by fraud practiced upon them by the plaintiff, in falsely and fraudulently representing that the said staves and heading mentioned in said writing, might be procured and delivered by the defendants at the price of ______ dollars per thousand, and that he, the said plaintiff, was in the habit of making contracts for staves of a similar kind, and that the price aforesaid was the full value of the said staves and heading so delivered, when in fact the plaintiff well knew that the staves and heading could not be procured and delivered by the defendants at the price aforesaid--that they were of a much larger price, to-wit: of the price of ______ dollars." And the said defendants say, that in consequence of the confidence reposed in the knowledge of the plaintiff, and his said representations, they were induced to execute the said writing; whereupon said defendants say that said writing in the declaration mentioned is void in law." To this the plaintiff replied, "that he did not practice a fraud on said defendants in obtaining the writing obligatory in the declaration mentioned," and after an informal traverse, the replication concludes to the country. The jury found for the defendants, and judgment for them was rendered accordingly. To reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted. It is assigned for error that these issues are wholly immaterial, and that the finding of them for the defendants did not warrant the judgment. The first issue is, no doubt, proper and material; but as this is only in favor of one defendant, it could not warrant the judgment of the court in favor of the whole, especially a judgment which did no?? quash or abate the writ, but was a complete bar. Fo?? altho' an infant may join himself in a covenant with other?? and be jointly sued, it does not follow that all ought to b?? acquitted on the issue being found for him. It has been decided by this court, that where a jury had found fo?? two defendants on a plea of non est factum, and agains?? two others on other issues, judgment may be given agains?? them, who were convicted by the finding. Megowan, &c. v. M'Crinn, &c.--Fall term, 1821. 3 Marsh. 157. *3 An infant may enter into a contract with others and be jointly sued, but upon his discharge under the plea of infancy, it does not follow that the others should be acquitted. It this doctrine be correct in the case of an issue of non est factum, in favor of one or more, the reason is stronger why the same practice should apply to this case than to that. The holder of a writing may be presumed to know whether it is really the deed of all the obligors, but he may be, more likely ignorant that one of them is an infant, until the finding of a jury shall ascertain it. To turn him round then to another action against the adults, would be multiplying actions when complete justice may be don?? in the first suit. This court has reversed judgments where the issue found were immaterial. Every judgment ought to be the result in law of the history of facts shewn in the record If the pleadings of the plaintiff shew him entitled to recover, the finding of a jury ought to substantiate some fact or facts alleged in the pleadings of the defendant, which shews that the plaintiff ought not to recover; otherwise judgment ought to be rendered for the plaintiff, an immaterial fact attested by a verdict notwithstanding. If the question here rested on the last issue above recited, we should have no difficulty in determining it wholly immaterial. It alleges, that the plaintiff below represented a certain price adequate, and that they placing confidence in him, were induced by him to execute the writing. But they have not informed us whether they contracted at the blank price stated in their plea, or at what price they did contract, or whether they were ignorant of the just price. It might be, that the price represented as adequate, and the price paid, was very different. Besides, the amount of the whole complaint in the plea, make the most of it, is, that the plaintiff below endeavored to contract as cheap as he could, and on the subject of price they were as free to judge as he. If every bargain is to be affected because the purchaser represented the quality or price lower than that asked by the vendor, but few would stand. The defendants below were the sellers of the articles. They must be presumed to know as much about the labor required to prepare them, and the price they were worth, as the plaintiff. If in this they were mistaken, they ought to abide by it, unless there had been a misrepresentation of some fact, or a concealment of some other one, which rested in the knowledge of the plaintiff alone, and which he was bound to represent truly. If the vendee of an article states it to be only of a certain value, when in fact it is worth more, this is no cause for vacating the contract, for the vendor is bound to judge of the value of the article sold. On the first issue tendered by the whole of the defendants there is more difficulty; not because we conceive there would be any difficulty, if the plea had been questioned by the appropriate mode of demurrer. Under such circumstances we should have no doubt that it was too general, to compel the opposite party to take issue upon it. It alleges fraud, covin, and misrepresentation, without shewing any facts from which the fraud could be inferred. But, however general this plea may be, the plaintiff below chose to waive objection to it and to reply as broad as the plea, thus leaving the defendants at liberty to prove any and every fraud which could affect the instrument declared on. It was competent for the plaintiff to consent to permit the defendants to give any fraud in evidence which could have been pleaded, and by replying to the plea, he virtually did give that assent. A fraud could be committed sufficient to vitiate the writing. It was the duty of the defendants to set forth the facts constituting the fraud; but the plaintiff has waived the necessity of their doing so, and the jury having found a fraud, though we can not tell what, or how it was perpetrated, yet as it is found, it does not result that the plaintiff ought to have judgment. This matter being found against him, it negatives his right to recover on the face of the record. This plea does not shew a defence defective in itself, but alleges a good one, defectively stated. As one of the pleas appears to repel the plaintiff's right to recover, and all the issues are found for the defendants, we can not disturb the verdict, because the plea is more general than the law allowed the defendants to make it. The plaintiff, by replying, has run the risque of proof to support these general allegations. *4 Where an instrument declared on is impeached, on the score of fraud, the plea should set forth the facts in which the fraud is supposed to exist, or the plea would be bad on demurrer, but if the plaintiff replies he waives the defect and permits the defendant to prove any fraud he can. On the trial the defendants proved that since the making of the present contract, the plaintiff had stated that he followed, for sometime past, making such contracts for a livelihood, and that a loss from five hundred to a thousand dollars would be sustained by any contracting party complying with such contract in delivering such quantity of staves. After this testimony the defendants offered to prove that the plaintiff had prosecuted to trial, in another circuit court, sundry suits upon agreements for the delivery of staves and heading at Cincinnati. This evidence was offered with the professed design of shewing that the plaintiff did, at the time of entering into this contract with the defendants know that they could not comply with it, without the loss aforesaid, and that he withheld these facts from the defendants. This evidence was objected to but was admitted by the court below. Suits in other courts can not be relied on to shew fraud in the suit then before the jury, inadequacy of price may be relied on to shew the party was defrauded, but it must be shewn by good evidence. Wide as one of the issues may be, which the parties have joined, we can not perceive that the evidence offered in the least conduced to prove the facts attempted to be inferred from it. Nor do we see any connection between the contracts which had been previously sued upon in the other circuit court, and this contract. It is not pretended they were of the same character with this, nor are they shewn to be such. It is not shewn that the plaintiff committed any fraud in making these other contracts, and if he had, we see no propriety in admitting other frauds to influence the measure of this contract. To admit such evidence appears like too strong an appeal to the prejudices of the jury, and an attempt to make them believe that the plaintiff was not entitled to justice at all, in any case. Each contract must stand on its own circumstances, and the acts of the plaintiff in making and suing on others could not affect his right in this controversy. It is true that the trial of these former suits in other courts, might make him acquainted with the price of staves; but if the price was far higher than the price stipulated, it does not follow that the defendants, because they contracted at a lower price, were defrauded in the bargain. Inadequacy of price is a circumstance that may be made use of as conducing with other evidence to shew that the party selling was defrauded; but this inadequacy ought to be shewn by good evidence. It is not shewn, or pretended, that the contracts sued on previously affected the price in the least, or that ever the price was questioned in one of the other suits. The evidence therefore is deemed wholly irrelevant and improper. *5 The plaintiff offered to give in evidence receipts for money and other articles, paid by him to the defendants at the making of the contract, and they were excluded on the objection of the defendants. The question of payment was not in issueffi nor could the money paid form the criterion of damages for the breach of the contract. The court excluded them on the grounds that if the contract was fraudulent, the plaintiff must resort to some other remedy to recover these payments, and could not recover them in damages in this action. But this was assuming that the contract was fraudulent before the jury had found it to be so. This was the question then on trial; and as the defendants relied on inadequacy of price and deception in representing it, it was certainly competent for the plaintiff to shew that he had paid a fair price, and the receipts of the defendants was as good evidence, on that subject, as any other. The judgment must be reversed with costs, the verdict set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings. Haggin, for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1821. Barlow v. Wiley 3 A.K.Marsh. 457, 10 Ky. 457, 1821 WL 1131 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
