(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 108,  17 Ky. 108 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1501 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Greenup's Representatives v. Bacon's Ex'rs. Oct. 13, 1824. *1 Sheriff's Return, Process, Absent Defendants, Infants, Guardians ad litem, Appearance. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Process 313 k 91 313 Process 313II Service 313II(C) Publication or Other Notice 313k88 Grounds and Conditions Precedent 313k91 k. Return of process. Most Cited  Cases A deputy sheriff's return of "not found within my bailiwick" will not warrant a publication. Process 313 k 91 313 Process 313II Service 313II(C) Publication or Other Notice 313k88 Grounds and Conditions Precedent 313k91 k. Return of process. Most Cited  Cases A return by a sheriff of "not found and not to be found" will not warrant a publication, as it is not equivalent to a return of "not found," which implies that defendant belongs to the county, and that the sheriff has been at his residence and could not find him. Process 313 k 136 313 Process 313II Service 313II(E) Return and Proof of Service 313k132 Form and Requisites of Return or  Certificate 313k136 k. Process not served. Most Cited  Cases A sheriff is not authorized to return a defendant "No inhabitant of the state," as he cannot officially know the inhabitants of the state, though it may be good for as much territory as he can officially notice. Infants 211 k 1246(1) 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1246 Duties, Responsibilities, and  Liabilities 211k1246(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k80(1)) A guardian ad litem must accept the appointment, or appear for his ward. Infants 211 k 1237(3) 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1237 Appointment in  General 211k1237(3) k. Purpose, grounds, and necessity.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 211k80(1)) Infants 211 k 1240(1) 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1240 Proceedings for  Appointment 211k1240(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k80(1)) If no one will accept the appointment of guardian ad litem for infant defendants, the court must appoint one of its own officers and compel his appearance. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. This is an action of debt, brought against the executors, devisees and heirs of Christopher Greenup, on a bond executed by their testator and ancestor. On the first writ the sheriff returned three of the heirs and devisees, "no inhabitants of the Commonwealth;" on an alias and pluries, he returned the same heirs "not found, and not to be found within my bailiwick." This as well as the first return, is made by a deputy, and not the principal sheriff. The court, on these returns, awarded publication, and on proof that it was made, rendered judgment by default against the whole, to reverse which, this writ of error is prosecuted. *2 (1.) It is clear, that a sheriff can not officially know the inhabitants of the Commonwealth, and is, therefore, not authorized to return any individual, no inhabitant of the state; but such a return may be good for as much territory as he could officially notice, and can not mean less than that the defendants were not inhabitants of his county. (1) Sheriff is not authorized to return a defendant "no inhabitant of the State;" but such return may be equal to "no inhabitant of his county." (2.) And it is clearly settled, by former adjudications of this court, that a return of "no inhabitant," can not warrant ex parte proceedings, in any action at common law. (2) Return of "no inhabitant," does not warrant ex parte proceedings at common law. The propriety, then, of making and proceeding by publication, must rest on the return made on the alias and pluries. (3.) If the returns on these are to be taken as meaning the same thing as the simple return of "not found," some doubts exist whether publication could be warranted by returns so contradictory to the first return. If it could, it must be done by supposing, that after the first return, the defendants had removed to, resided, or were commorant in the county. (3) Quere--Does the return of "not found" on the alias and pluries, after the return of "no inhabitant of the State," on the original, warrant a publication? (4.) But without giving any positive opinion on this point, we conceive the returns on the alias and pluries, can not be taken to mean neither more nor less than the simple return of non est inventus. (4) The return of "not found and not to be found," is not equal to a return of "not found," and, therefore, will not warrant a publication. The return of ""not found," implies that the defendant belongs to the county, and that the sheriff has been at his residence and could not find him, or that he belongs to the county, yet his residence is unknown. This latter return, under our laws, implies that the defendant belongs to the county; that the sheriff has been at his residence and could not find him; or that although he belongs to the county, yet his residence is unknown and can not be ascertained. The facts are comprehended in the return, and are considered as proved by it, before publication can go. But the sheriff has negatived some of these facts by the words "and not to be found." If these words mean any thing, they must imply that the defendants do not belong to the county; for they show that it was impossible to find them there. We can not treat these expressions as a nullity. It is evident that they were added to restrain and qualify, to some extent, the words "not found," and to hint some extraordinary reason for not finding them. The return thus qualified, could not warrant publication. (5.) Another reason exists against the sufficiency of this return to sustain the publication. It is made by a deputy, and applies to his bailiwick only; and it is decided by this court, in the case of Gully v. Sanders, Littell's Select Cases, 424, that bailiwick, in such case, does not necessarily include the county, but strictly means that part which is or may be assigned to the deputy. The proceeding, therefore, by publication, on this return, was erroneous. *3 (5) "Not found in my bailiwick," returned by a deputy sheriff, does not import that the defendant is not found in the county; and, therefore, does not warrant a publication. (6.) Another error assigned will, also, be noticed. Some of the defendants and part of the absentees, were infants. Before judgment an order was made appointing a guardian ad litem to defend for them. The order then proceeds to state, that said guardian "being present in court, said nothing in bar or preclusion of the plaintiff's action." This order says nothing more nor less, than that the guardian appointed was completely passive under the appointment, and neither assented to the appointment, nor appeared for his wards. (6) The guardian ad litem must accept the appointment, or appear for his ward; that he was present "in court, and said nothing in bar or preclusion of the claim of the plaintiffs' action," will not do. (7.) It is true, that by an act of assembly of this commonwealth, the plaintiff, in cases of infancy, may proceed, notwithstanding the nonage of any of the parties, and the parol can not demur, as at common law; still, however, infants must appear by guardian. If none can be found to accept the appointment or appear for the infant, it is the duty of the court to appoint one of its officers, whom they can control, and see that he enters an appearance. (7) If no other can be found to accept the appointment or appear, the court must appoint one of its own officers, and see that he does appear--Ar. (8.) Either an acceptance of the appointment, or an appearance of a guardian, on an appointment of an officer that shall appear, is necessary, before the court proceeds, and such appointee must be responsible for his acts under the appointment, neither of which exists in this case. (8) Guardian ad litem is responsible for his acts--Argu. The judgment must, therefore be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Forbes and Sharp, for plaintiffs; Littell and Marshall, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Greenup's Representatives v. Bacon's Ex'rs 1 T.B.Mon. 108, 17 Ky. 108, 1824 WL 1501 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
