(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 197,  17 Ky. 197 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1529 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Montgomery v. Commonwealth, for the benefit of Houston, &c. Dec. 15, 1824. *1 Guardian and Ward, Pleading, Joinder of Relators. ERROR TO THE LINCOLN CIRCUIT; JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGE. West Headnotes Guardian and Ward 196 k 182(4) 196 Guardian and Ward 196VIII Liabilities on Guardianship Bonds 196k182 Actions 196k182(4) k. Parties. Most Cited Cases An action on the bond of the guardian must be in the name of the personal representatives. Guardian and Ward 196 k 182(4) 196 Guardian and Ward 196VIII Liabilities on Guardianship Bonds 196k182 Actions 196k182(4) k. Parties. Most Cited Cases In an action on a guardian's bond, the relators stand as real plaintiffs;  and, unless their interest be such that they could unite as plaintiffs, they cannot join. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. For two orphans, the county court appointed two ??oint guardians, and took from them a joint bond, conditioned in the usual form. One of these orphans died, and his heirs joined with the surviver, as relators in ??his action on the guardian's bond, to recover the ??mount of the estate in the guardian's hands, and ob??ained a verdict and judgment, to reverse which, this writ of error is prosecuted. In an action on a guardian's bond, the relators stand as real plaintiffs, and unless their interest be such that they could unite as plaintiffs, they can not join. We are of opinion the action cannot be sustained. The relators stand as real plaintiffs, and if their interest is not of the same character as that of plaintiffs, or ??s not such as would permit plaintiffs to join, they can??ot unite in this action. Whether the estate in the hands of the guardian ??ught not to be considered as several, so that each heir must bring a separate action for his part, although the ??ond is joint, is a question we need not now decide; be??ause there is another objection to the union of the par??ies here, which must be fatal. Quere--Can an action be maintained on the joint bond of the guardian of several wards, at the relation of them all, or must they each bring separate suits? It is evident, that on the death of the deceased ward ??n this case, the estate, being all of a personal nature, must and would pass to his personal representative, ??nd not to the heirs at law. The former must have ??he legal right, and, of course, the title to all legal remedies touching the estate. The latter could have nothing more than an equity, and must come at the legal estate through the hands of the personal represen?? tative. It is then, evident, that they were not entitle?? to this action, and could not join in it with the surviver?? and the court below erred in overruling the motion i?? arrest of judgment made on this ground. Heirs of the ward can not, as relators, maintain an action on the bond of the guardian; it must be in the name of the personal representatives. *2 The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions t?? dismiss the suit with costs. Crittenden, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1824. Montgomery v. Commonwealth 1 T.B.Mon. 197, 17 Ky. 197, 1824 WL 1529 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
