(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 36,  20 Ky. 36 (Ky.),  1827 WL 2570 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hord's Adm'rs v. Lee, Lashbrook, &c. Jan. 16, 1826. *1 Statute of Limitations. Executors and Administrators. Devastavit. ERROR TO THE MASON CIRCUIT; ADAM BEATTY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 124 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k123 Coexecutors and Coadministrators 162k124 k. Joint or Several Authority. Most Cited  Cases The acts of one of several administrators in respect to the administration of the effects are deemed to be the acts of all, and are valid. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. [Absent Chief Justice Bibb.] This is assumpsit against two administrators, for goods, wares and merchandise, sold to the intestate in his lifetime. There are two or three counts on the assumpsit of the intestate, and one on the assumpsit of the administrators. But the jury being instructed by the court, on the application of the defendants, to find against the plaintiffs on all the counts, except that on the assumpsit of the administrators as such, of course any question arising on these counts need not be considered. To the count on the assumpsit of the administrators, as such the pleas were non assumpsit, and the statute of limitations barring such accounts in twelve months, replication that the defendants did assume within twelve months, verdict and judgment for plaintiffs below; to reverse which, the defendants have prosecuted this writ of error. Verdict and judgment against administrators on a count upon their assumpsit of intestate's debt. The court below instructed the jury, first, that the promise of one of the administrators to pay the debt, within twelve months, as proved, if believed by them, was sufficient, to take the case out of the statute of limitations.--And secondly, that this promise being made by one administrator as such, was admissible evidence against both and sufficient to charge the assets in their hands. These are the questions for the consideration of this court, and we have concluded that the court below decided both of them correctly. Instructions and questions stated. As to the first, it is in proof, that the administrator defendant is the son, and the administratrix, the widow, of the intestate; that the accounts was accurately drawn from the books of the plaintiffs below, and presented to the administrator, who stated, that he would take the account and consult his mother, the administratrix, about it, and ascertain whether it was correct; and that he afterwards returned an answer, that it was correct, and that it should be paid so soon as some money belonging to the estate came into their hands. He frequently afterwards renewed the same assurances, and solicited that suit should not be brought thereon to put the estate to costs, as the money should be paid without. Evidence given to take the case out of the limitation. The courts of this country have construed the statute of limitations more strictly in favor of those who plead it, than either England or Virginia, from which our jurisprudence is derived, and have not ventured to effect a virtual repeal of the statute, by excepting many cases from its influence, which literally came within its provision, as will be seen in the case of  Bell v. Rowland's Adm'rs. Hard 301, and numerous cases since. *2 The construction of the statute of limitations in Kentucky is more favorable for the party that pleads it, than in Virginia or England. The rule as settled by these cases is, that there must be an explicit acknowledgment of the debt, as one remaining due, or an express promise to pay it coupled with, or based upon, the original consideration, to take the case out of the statute--in other words, the promise or acknowledgment ought to be sufficient to sustain an action itself, and on it the action must be brought. The promise or acknowledgment, in this case, we conceive, comes up to this rule. The acknowledgment is full; the promise is explicit and express, and the account, which in its items, set out the consideration in full, is referred to as the base or consideration of the promise, and the court, therefore, did not err on this point. The promise to take the case out of the statute, must be sufficient of itself, to sustain the action, and on it the action must be brought. On the second point there is more difficulty, and we have not met with an express adjudication on the subject. But the principles which govern the duties of administrators, when carried out, warrant the decision of the court below. If there be several, yet they represent one man, and one fund, and of course, it follows, that the act of one must, in most cases, be taken as the act of all. One can pay away the money of the estate in discharge of the debts due, and a dissenting majority can not recover it back. He may also release a debt due to the estate, and bar a recovery thereof by his co-administrators. For, says Toller, p. 407: "Of executors, we have seen, the acts of any one, in respect to the administration of the effects, are deemed by the law to be the acts of all, in as much as they have a joint and entire authority over the whole property; but joint administrators have been considered in a different light. Their power arises not from the act of the deceased, but from the ordinary; and administration is in the nature of an office.--Hence it has been held, that if granted to several persons, they must all join in the execution of it; nor shall the act of one only, be binding on the rest, and, that therefore, one of several administrators can not, like one of several executors, convey an interest or release a debt without the others. But this distinction has been overruled, and it seems to be now settled, that a joint administrator stands on the same footing, and is invested with the same powers, as a co-executor." So strong is this principle, that one of several administrators or executors may bind the others by legal proceedings--by entering an appearance, and process served on one may be considered as served upon all, and binds them. From these principles, it seems necessarily to result, that the promise of one administrator, so far as it can be operative upon the estate represented by him, must bind all who are joined with him in that representation. *3 An acknowledgement of an account against the intestate, made by one of two administrators takes the case out of the statute of limitations, and will support the action against both. Nor will it necessarily follow, that, if by such promise, or any other act separately done, the estate is wasted, all who did not directly join, shall be charged in an action for the devastavit, although the act may operate on the estate to be administered. If such an acknowledgment be wrong, the other administrator will not be chargeable with a devastavit thereby occasioned. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs and damages. Triplett, for plaintiffs; Crittenden, for defendants. Ky.App. 1826. Hord's Adm'rs v. Lee 4 T.B.Mon. 36, 20 Ky. 36, 1827 WL 2570 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
