(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 400,  10 Ky. 400 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1111 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Zorobabel Madox et al. v. James M'Quean. May 29, 1821. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE LEWIS CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Specific Performance 358 k 31 358 Specific Performance 358II Contracts Enforceable 358k31 k. Completeness. Most Cited Cases Equity will not enforce an incomplete contract, but leave the parties to their remedy at law. Specific Performance 358 k 90 358 Specific Performance 358III Good Faith and Diligence 358k90 k. Necessity of Diligence of Plaintiff. Most Cited Cases The chancellor will not aid a party praying specific execution of a contract, who has unreasonably delayed to perform his part of it. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases Equity will not entertain jurisdiction where there is an adequate remedy at law. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Zorobabel and John Madox executed their bond, obliging them to convey to James M'Quean one hundred acres of land, containing some improvements thereon?? and received the purchase money, which was three hundred and fifteen dollars. This bond was assigned by James M'Quean to John A. L. M'Quean, who took possession of the land. A suit was brought against the vendors, who held the legal estate for the land by a person holding an adverse claim, and about twenty-five acres thereof recovered. This decree was afterwards reversed by this court. After this decree was rendered, and before its reversal, John A. L. M'Queen and the said vendors, Zorobabel and John Madox, entered into a negotiation about rescinding the contract for the land, and a writing was signed by them, in which it was stipulated, that the vendors should pay back the consideration money with interest, and also the value of the improvements made by the vendee, and the vendee should account for the reasonable rents and profits during his occupancy; the improvements and rents to be ascertained and valued by two men named by the writing, and in case of their disagreement, a third person to be one of two others named in the writing, whichsoever the first named referees should choose. Z. and J. Madox, the now plaintiffs in error, filed this bill to have specific performance of this rescinding contract. The tenant, M'Quean, resisted it on the grounds, that, at the time the last named contract was made, it was supposed that part of the land was lost, and now, that decree, which took away the land, is reversed, and the plaintiffs enabled to convey:--That the contract of rescission, though signed and acknowledged by him, was never delivered, and that they were to complete the whole contract by further writings, but differed before these writings were closed, and the plaintiffs, or one of them, took or snatched up the writing in question, and delivered it to a third person. And lastly, that the plaintiffs had trifled with the contract of rescission by delaying to have the valuations made until one of the referees had refused to act, whereby the agreement could not be effectuated. The circuit court dismissed the bill; and, to reverse this decree, this writ of error is prosecuted. *2 It is evident, from the evidence, that the defendant below, at the date of this contract of rescission, believed he could not obtain the land on account of the decree then existing against part. But this not being occasioned by any fraud or misrepresentation of the opposite party, might not of itself furnish a ground sufficient to repel the execution of the rescinding contract, if it is not liable to other objections. There is some difference between the subscribing witnesses (there being two of them) as to the delivery of the instrument; one seeming to think the contract was closed and concluded, and that it was delivered by the tacit assent of the defendant, to a third person for safe keeping; while the other deposes that he was drawing other writings, to-wit, bonds binding the parties to abide by the award of the referees, when the parties differed and did not execute these latter writings, which the witness considered part of the same negotiation, and thereupon the plaintiffs, or one of them, took up from the table the writing in question, and delivered it to the witness. With the recollection of the latter witness agrees a by-stander, who deposes that the parties differed about the time when the referees should act, the defendant contending it should be the next day, and the plaintiffs contending that it should not be sooner than was convenient for them. Time is important in this as well as other contracts, and as it was not fixed by the original writing, now relied on, and on this the dispute arose, we conceive that the evidence is too strong to prove that the negotiation was never completed so as to be fairly obligatory, and that the defendant did not understand that the act of raising the writing from the table by one of the plaintiffs, and delivering it to the witness, was a delivery of the instrument, although he was silent at the moment. A writing which forms a component part of a negotiation will not be decreed, unless all the writings are executed and delivered. But if we could even get over this objection, and it be admitted that the writing was fairly and fully completed and executed, the other grounds taken strongly militate against the coercion of this contract. As no time was set for the valuation of rents and improvements, it follows that it ought to have been made in a convenient and reasonable time. Some attempts had been made to procure it, which were defeated, as one of the referees deposes, by the plaintiffs below not being ready. They at last gave a notice that they would attend and have the valuation made, and alleged in the notice that they had received a similar one previously from the defendant below himself. This notice, however, was not given for upwards of one year after the date of the agreement of rescission. This delay is unaccounted for, and it subjected the defendant to the necessity of becoming their bailiff or receiver one year against his will. At this meeting, one of the referees declined acting, because he apprehended, from the disagreement of the parties, the office was a disagreeable one. The specific execution of a contract is said to be in the sound discretion of the chancellor. This discretion, however, is guided by legal rules, one of which is, that he who demands the redress, must not himself be in default. No relief will be granted to him, who, without excuse, has failed in his stipulations, or has trifled with the contract by unreasonably delaying the performance of his part. This case, we conceive, comes within the influence of these principles, and furnishes an example where this extraordinary relief ought to be, and was properly refused by the court below. It is further worthy of notice, that although the purchase money to be refunded was fixed by this agreement, yet the payment for improvements and assessment of rents, form a constituent and essential part of the contract. This was to be fixed by men named in the agreement, whose valuation cannot be procured. Their being chosen might have induced the negotiation, and brought it so near to a close as it was. It is therefore absurd to ask a decree in favor of an assessment not made, and improper to compel the defendant to submit to any other mode of adjustment. If this is not making, it is at least mending, a contract, neither of which is the province of the chancellor. To authorize a decree enforcing a contract, the agreement must be complete. Where it is incomplete, the parties ought to be left to their legal rights and remedies, according to a course of law. Smallwood v. Hansborough, 1 Wash. 290. It is not necessary to decide, nor does it appear in this case, whether the original contract for the sale of the land is such an one as equity would enforce or set aside. Be it which it may, the decision in this case can not affect it. *3 An unreasonable delay on the part of the person praying a specific execution, to perform his part of an agreement, will induce the chancellor to withhold his aid. The decree of the court below must be affirmed with costs. Bibb for plaintiff, Hardin for defendant. Ky.App. 1821. Madox v. McQuean 3 A.K.Marsh. 400, 10 Ky. 400, 1821 WL 1111 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
