(Cite as: 4 Litt. 201,  14 Ky. 201 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1253 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Butlcr v. Butler. Oct. 22, 1823. *1 FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. H. DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Divorce 134 k 560 134 Divorce 134V Spousal Support, Allowances, and Disposition of Property 134V(C) Spousal Support 134k560 k. Statutory basis for award;  necessity of statute.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 134k200) Chancery has authority to decree alimony in a proper case, independently of any statutory warrant. Equity 150 k 272 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(F) Amended and Supplemental Pleadings and Revivor 150k268 Amendment of Bill 150k272 k. Matter arising after filing of bill. Most  Cited Cases Where a suit in chancery is commenced before the cause of action is consummated, but it becomes complete pending the suit, it is necessary to state that fact by an amended bill, to justify a decree. Husband and Wife 205 k 283(2) 205 Husband and Wife 205VIII Separation and Separate Maintenance 205k282 Right to Allowance for Maintenance 205k283 Of Wife 205k283(2) k. Desertion, abandonment, or separation.  Most Cited Cases Where a husband has abandoned his wife of necessity on account of her insupportable temper, but has voluntarily provided for her support, she cannot maintain a suit for alimony, unless by statute;  and it seems that, where his abandonment for such cause was justified, she forfeits all right to alimony. Husband and Wife 205 k 289 205 Husband and Wife 205VIII Separation and Separate Maintenance 205k285 Actions for Separate Maintenance 205k289 k. Jurisdiction and venue. Most Cited  Cases A wife is not entitled to sue for alimony until after the expiration of a year after her abandonment by her husband. Husband and Wife 205 k 289 205 Husband and Wife 205VIII Separation and Separate Maintenance 205k285 Actions for Separate Maintenance 205k289 k. Jurisdiction and venue. Most Cited  Cases A court of chancery has jurisdiction to grant a decree for alimony to a wife independent of statutory authority. Husband and Wife 205 k 299(1) 205 Husband and Wife 205VIII Separation and Separate Maintenance 205k285 Actions for Separate Maintenance 205k299 Judgment, and Enforcement Thereof 205k299(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Under the statute providing that a suit for alimony cannot be begun until a year after the abandonment, if the bill was prematurely filed no decree can be entered even after the lapse of the time provided, unless by an amendment of the bill it is shown that abandonment continued for a year. HARDIN and CRITTENDEN for plaintiff in error; TALBOT and MONROE for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 The complainant below, now defendant in error, filed her bill for the purpose of obtaining alimony against her husband, on a charge that he had deserted and abandoned her, and would not live with her. The answer admits that he left her at his own house, with every thing comfortably about her, and that he took up his residence in another house on the same farm, with intention to live no more with her; and alleges that he was compelled to this measure for the sake of peace, and to avoid the effects of her bad temper, which had rendered his life miserable; and that she had not only annoyed him with her tongue, but had beaten him with weapons; that before he left her, he called upon two or three of his neighbors, and caused them to set aside for her use, what they supposed sufficient for her maintenance for nine months; that he had furnished her with those articles allowed her by these neighbors, and many others, and had furnished her with wood and other necessaries, and intended always to keep her decently, if permitted to do so without compulsion. Where a suit in chancery is commenced before the cause of action is consummated, but it becomes complete during the pendency of the suit, it is necessary to state that fact by an amended bill, to justify a decree. A suit for alimony, can not, under our statute, be properly commenced, until a year after the abandonment; and if it is, and the bill is not amended, so as to show that it has continued a year and more, no decree can be pronounced. The court decreed to the complainant two hundred dollars per annum as alimony. When both bill and answer were filed and issue was joined in the cause, one whole year had not elapsed since the first abandonment; but the year was complete at the rendition of the decree. It is, therefore, contended that this decree can not be sustained under the statute, and that without the statute, a court of equity can grant no relief in the premises. It is insisted, on the other hand, that the decree is good under the statute, as the cause of action was complete before the rendition of the decree; and if this should not be the case, that independent of the statute, a court of equity has jurisdiction of the matter, and can give the appropriate relief. Courts of chancery have, in this country, authority to decree alimony, independent of the act of assembly. It will be admitted, that the trial of an issue in a court of common law, determines upon the controversy as it stood at the commencement of the action, except such issues as are formed on the plea of puis darreign continuance; and that if there was at the commencement of suit, no cause of action, it is fatal, however strong it may have become afterwards. But the rule in a court of equity is somewhat different. The chancellor is not tied down to such strictness, as to refuse relief in all cases where the bill was filed prematurely. Redress may sometimes be given in such case, and the costs of the suit may be imposed upon the complainant, which accrued before the cause of the complaint had arrived at maturity, as a penalty upon his haste. Still, however, it is necessary by an amended bill, or new pleadings, to state the supplemental events, which have completed the cause of suit, in order that the chancellor may know from the pleading that such events have really transpired; for the decision of the chancellor settles the matters of contest as they stood at the time the issue was joined. If, then, such subsequent events are not set out by new pleadings, except perhaps in the case of accruing instalments on mortgages, or such like cases, redress ought not to be granted, although the testimony may prove the cause of complaint complete. As, then, the abandonment for one year might or might not have been complete at the rendition of this decree, as it might have ceased by his return, from any thing which appears in the pleadings, and there is no amendment showing that it really had transpired, it follows that the complainant below can not have relief under the statute, and that her bill must fail, unless the chancellor has jurisdiction independent of, or had it before the statute. *3 It seems, that where the conduct of the wife is so unkind and inhuman towards her husband, as to justify his abandoning her, she forfeits all right to alimony, at common law. It is certain, that in such case, if the husband has voluntarily supported her, although he has ceased to live with her, she can maintain no suit, independent of the statute. On this question, elementary writers place the power of decreeing alimony, in general terms, among the powers of the chancellor. But when the adjudged cases are examined, it is found that generally some peculiar circumstances must exist to authorize such decree. Thus, it is said, that there must be an agreement between the parties that alimony should be allowed, or a previous sentence of an ecclesiastical court, separating the parties a mensa et thoro, from which an agreement would be implied, or the chancellor would not interfere; that is, he would not take up the matter ab origine, settle the separation and grant alimony. As to decreeing a separation, it seems clear that the power was never considered in England to belong to the chancellor; but to the ecclesiastical courts. And it has been the clear understanding since the commencement of our government, in every state, so far as is known to the court, that no power of granting divorces, either a mensa et thoro, or a vinculo matrimonii, existed in any tribunal until it was granted by legislative authority and that the marriage contract without such grant, could not be annulled, either in whole or in part. But suppose the case of abandonment by a husband and that the separation is complete without any sentence, and that the wife is left to the humanity of the world, without support. has the chancellor, without the statute, or in cases not embraced by it, no authority to direct a portion of the husband's estate to be set apart for the support of the wife, leaving the marriage contract as obligatory as ever? This is a question different from the power of separation, and deserves further consideration It is true, that the court of chancery would always grant this, after the spiritual court had acted as to the separation, and before, where there had been an agreement, but without such previous sentence or agreement, could it never interfere? On this point the English authorities are contradictory, and, indeed, somewhat irreconcileable. Cases during the usurpation, went that far; but in answer to these, it is said that the jurisdiction was expressly given, and that such doubts afterwards existed of the validity of these decrees, that they were confirmed by Parliament. In Head v. Head, 3 Atk. 547, Lord Hardwick observes, that he could find no decree to compel a husband to pay a separate maintenance to his wife, unless upon an agreement between them, and even then, unwillingly. This dictum of that able chancellor, does seem measurably since to have controlled this question. But notwithstanding such high authority, it is evident that the court had decreed alimony in cases where the spiritual court had previously decreed a separation Such are the cases of Nichols v. Danvers, 2 Ver. 761, and Oxenden v. Oxenden, 2 Ver. 493. Besides, in the cases of Lashbrook v. Tyler, 1 Ch. Rep. 24, Williams v. Cotton, 2 Ver. 752, Watkins v. Watkins, 2 Atk. 96, alimony was decreed where there appears no sentence of separation or agreement, and in at least two of these cases, it certainly appears there was neither. In some other cases, where the existence of an agreement was relied on, the court only used it as a pretext for jurisdiction, and did not confine itself to the terms of the agreement; but departed from it in making such allowance as was equitable. Between such conflicting authorities, we consider ourselves at liberty to choose and decide according to the principles of equity and reason of the case. *4 It is clear, that strong moral obligation must lie on every husband, who has abandoned his wife, to support her. The marriage contract and every principle binds him to do this. To fail to do it, is a wrong acknowledged at common law, though the law knows no remedy, because there the wife can not sue the husband. But in equity the wife can sue the husband, and it is the province of a court of equity to afford remedy where conscience and law acknowledges a right, but knows no remedy. Why, then, should the chancellor shrink at this case and refuse a remedy? It is evident, that this arose in England for fear of intruding upon the ground occupied by the ecclesiastical courts. These courts were incorporated with their government, and as much composed a part of the civil organization of that country, as our county courts do here; and their sentences on subjects within their jurisdiction, was as obligatory and as much noticed in their civil courts, as the decisions of other courts. And, indeed, they kept and held jurisdiction of some matters purely temporal. It became necessary to draw the line of demarcation around them, and restrain other tribunals from occupying the same ground, and to refuse to entertain concurrent jurisdiction, leaving the party to apply there for his or her remedy. But in this country, we have no such courts, or boundaries around them, to notice. The reason, then, for refusing the jurisdiction of such cases as are peculiarly temporal, and particularly this case, which lies within the compass of the general grant to the chancellor, has here ceased, and does not exist. And grievous wrongs might exist without remedies, until the legislature interferred, which is against a well known principle ripened into maxim. Indeed, probable cases might be supposed and known, where, in one year, absolute starvation might be the consequence of abandonment and withdrawing the means of support, if the chancellor has no power to interpose. We, therefore, conceive that the chancellor, before the statute, and since, in cases not embraced by it, which have strong moral claims, had and has jurisdiction to decree alimony, leaving the matrimonial chain untouched, and that those authorities which decide in favor of such jurisdiction, ought to prevail. This conclusion brings us to the merits of this case, and imposes upon us the necessity of inquiring whether the decree below is right. The abandonment is confessed in the answer, and the intention made out in proof, and the fortune of the defendant below is ample, and no abandonment or lewd conduct is shown on the part of the wife, to bar her right; but still, it must be confessed that the conduct of the husband is not without strong palliating circumstances, and that the claim of the complainant is not very meritorious. Her temper is insufferable, and her conduct to her husband and children, has been aggravating and provoking; and in one case she appears to have resorted to weapons, and to have injured him considerably. And often when such violence was not resorted to, conduct calculated to wound his sensibility deeply, appears to have been practiced by her. Of her improprieties she seems sometimes to have been sensible, and then to have made concessions and promises of amendment. But these resolutions were soon broken, and no reformation succeeded; but soon a repetition of the same offences. Under such circumstances, we can scarcely see what else the husband could do, than to retire from her company, as it became a torment instead of conjugal happiness. Without deciding, however, whether he was or was not completely justifiable, we are certain that the bare act of his taking a different house near at hand, is not sufficient to induce the chancellor to decree alimony. Something more is necessary. He must have withdrawn the means of support from her, or have refused to provide for her, before he could be liable to a decree. He has done neither. It is not shown, even during the progress of the cause, that he refused her the means of support, or disturbed her in the occupancy of the dwelling in which he had left her. Before the bill was filed, he did set apart what, in the opinion of two or three of his neighbors, was sufficient for her maintenance for a considerable length of time, and before this time expired, she filed her bill. It is insisted that in this provision there was a deficiency of some small necessary articles; but it does not appear that she was without or needed these articles. It is also in proof, that this provision was assigned by these neighbors as adequate, taking into consideration what her own labor would produce, and hence it is contended, that it was too scanty and ought to induce the chancellor to interfere. We do not think so. If the parties had lived together, notwithstanding the competent fortune of the husband for the purposes of living, industry was necessary to take care of, if not to increase, their means of living; and however far a husband, who was guilty of causeless abandonment or of cruel treatment, might be bound to extend the provision for a deserted wife, we do not conceive, in a case where she has been the cause of the separation, that she ought to be raised, by means of the husband, above, or be excused from that kind of labor which suits her sex. We, therefore, conceive that she was, in this instance, too hasty to have the benefit of the statute; and that without the statute, she has not shown a case which ought to induce the chancellor to interfere. *5 The decree must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause be remanded with directions to the court below to dismiss the bill; but without costs in either court, as costs in favor of the husband against the wife, can not be given. Ky.App. 1823. Butler v. Butler 4 Litt. 201, 14 Ky. 201, 1823 WL 1253 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
