(Cite as: 4 T.B.Mon. 315,  20 Ky. 315 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1427 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Locke and Fleming v. Coleman. Apr. 9, 1827. *1 Sheriffs Sales of Land. Executions. Liens. Practice. Errors. Leases. Evidence of Title. Creditors. Fraudulent Conveyances. Tenant at Will. ERROR TO THE HARRISON CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 115 161 Execution 161IV Lien 161k115 k. Transfers of property pending or subject to execution. Most Cited Cases A lease for years made by defendant after the levy of one of several executions, under all which combined, the land is afterwards sold, is overreached by the sale. Execution 161 k 221 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k221 k. Time of sale. Most Cited  Cases A lapse of three years from the levy of the fieri facias on land, during which the plaintiff has successive writs of venditioni exponas issued, will not affect the sale subsequently made. Execution 161 k 226 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k226 k. Conduct of sale in general. Most Cited  Cases One sale may be made of land to satisfy several executions. Execution 161 k 226 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(A) Manner, Conduct, and Validity 161k226 k. Conduct of sale in general. Most Cited  Cases It is no objection to the combination of the executions, and one sale, that some of them required the sales on credits, and the others for money. Execution 161 k 260 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchaser 161k260 k. Nature and effect of transfer in general. Most  Cited Cases In making title under a sheriff's sale, the original judgment execution returned replevied, with the name of the surety, and the corresponding execution on the bond, are sufficient, prima facie, without producing the bond. Landlord and Tenant 233 k 556 233 Landlord and Tenant 233II Leases and Agreements in General 233II(A) Requisites and Validity 233k556 k. Recording lease or contract. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k26) Where one execution overreaches an unrecorded lease for years of the debtor's property, made after the levy, all other executions received before the sale are let in, and the lease is inoperative as to all. Landlord and Tenant 233 k 556 233 Landlord and Tenant 233II Leases and Agreements in General 233II(A) Requisites and Validity 233k556 k. Recording lease or contract. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k26) A lease of land for a term not exceeding five years need not be recorded. Ejectment 142 k 95(1) 142 Ejectment 142III Pleading and Evidence 142k92 Weight and Sufficiency of Evidence 142k95 Title and Right to Possession 142k95(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases In ejectment on a title under an execution sale, against the defendant in the execution, in possession at the sale, possession is prima facie evidence of title for the plaintiff. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Statement. This is an ejectment brought for a house and lot in the town of Cynthiana, and a verdict and judgment was rendered for the lessor of the plaintiff, from which the defendants have appealed. The plaintiff gave in evidence, to show title, six judgments against James Finley, and executions thereon; three of these were returned by the sheriff replevied, with the name of the sureties, and then executions of fieri facias, purporting to be issued on the replevin bonds, and returned, levied on the house and lot, which was not sold. The other three were original executions, on the remaining judgments, returned, also levied on the same house and lot, and that it was not sold. Then followed numerous executions of venditioni exponas, on each fieri facias, which were fruitless, and returned by the sheriff, with various excuses, why the sale was not executed. At length on one set of these, the sale is returned, as made by virtue of the whole of them, and that the lessor of the plaintiff, now appellee, became the purchaser, being the highest bidder, and that he paid part of the money down in satisfaction of the executions on replevin bonds, and gave bond with surety for the residue, applied to the three other executions, satisfying the whole of them, except the junior one, which was in part only satisfied, leaving a balance still due thereon. He next produced a conveyance from the sheriff, and showed that the present appellants occupied the lot, as tenants of the said James Finley or claiming under him. Judgments, Executions, Sheriff's sale and deed, under which plaintiff derived title. He here rested his evidence, and was met by a motion to instruct the jury, as in case of a non suit, which was overruled by the court; in which decision it is contended the court erred; and in support of that position, various objections are taken to the evidence, and to the title of the lessor of the plaintiffs, which, it is insisted, are fatal. These we shall consider in order. Motion for non suit overruled. As to the insufficiency of the evidence, supposing the sale and conveyance to be regular, it can not be maintained. It is true there was no written title shown to be in Finley, the defendant, in the executions before the sale; but this was not necessary, as it was shown that Finley, by himself or tenants possessed the lot; and this is a controversy solely between the purchaser and his tenants. Between these parties possession in the defendant in the execution, has been heretofore held by this court, sufficient evidence, at least prima facie, to warrant a recovery. See Campbell v. Roberts &c. 3 Marsh. 623. It has been held by the courts of New York, that such a sale under execution and conveyance by the sheriff, were conclusive evidence of title against the defendant in the execution, and that he is estopped to say that he had no title. But whether this doctrine is applicable to sales under our statutes, we need not now determine. For it is sufficient in this case, if the plaintiff here has showed such title, as not contested, warranted a recovery. *3 In ejectment on a title under an execution sale, against the defendant in the execution, in possession at the sale, that possession is prima facie evidence of title for the plaintiff. It is also insisted that the levy in this case, under the different writs of fieri facias, was such a length of time before the sale, in obedience to the different writs of venditioni exponas, the period being in some of them two or three years, the lien was lost, and the sale could not take place. This point is untenable in the mouth of the defendant in the execution or his tenants, whatever might be its validity in the mouth of the holder of another execution and sale under it. After the levy was once made, and the execution still unsatisfied, it would be difficult for a defendant in execution to fix the precise period, at which the execution lost its hold, and his title became so untrammelled that he could dispose of it at pleasure. If there be such a limit, it must be longer than the time here elapsed. Besides the creditors under whom the appellee claims appear to have been in no default. They pressed unceasingly, one venditioni exponas after another, till they procured the sale, and did no act evincing the abandonment of their claim against the lot. Lapse of three years from the levy of the fieri facias, on land, during which plaintiff had writs of venditioni exponas continually issued in succession, will not effect the sale afterwards made. The next exception is, that the sheriff could not sell the estate under different and numerous executions at the same time, some of which admitted of a credit, and others on replevin bonds, which required ready money; and that he ought to have sold so much of the estate by separate sales under each, as was necessary to discharge it; and to support this, the act subjecting lands to the payment of debts. 1 Dig. L. K. 513, is relied on, which directs the sheriff to sell the land, "or so much as may be sufficient. Several executions levied on real estate, may be combined and one sale made of so much of the property as will satisfy the whole. It is true that statute does give such directions. Bu it must be remembered, that although the statute speaks of but one execution, and gives this direction as to that one, yet it equally applies to every one, and each is entitled to the same privilege except as to the distribution of the money. Each has the same forec?? and confers a like authority upon the sheriff. It can, therefore, do no damage to the defendant, as the sheriff must sell so much as will satisfy each, to permit him to sell so much, and so much only, as will satisfy all. Indeed when the subject sold, as this is, shall not be conveniently devisable, it might be sacrificed by parcelling it by sale after sale under each execution, when the whole sold at once, may command a better price; and if the amount bid for the whole exceeds the amount of the executions, it is then easy, by proper bidding, to strike off, in convenient form, so much by little and little, as will not sell more of the whole than will satisfy all. Indeed it is hard to perceive the difference betwen many executions, each conferring an equal authority, operating at the same time together, and one large execution equal to the whole. The sheriff, therefore, can combine them, and thus do equal justice to the plaintiffs, the defendant and the purchaser. And he has only to look to the application of the proceeds afterwards, to each execution, and give the proper preference which the law has directed; and in doing this, the defendant can not be materially interested; it is more properly a question between the different plaintiffs. *4 Nor do we perceive any weight in that part of the objection which cavils at some of the executions being on replevin bonds, and others on judgments. Each gave an equal warrant to sell, and the difference is, one required prompt payment, and the rest admitted of a credit. If they had been separated their requisitions would have been the same, and to combine them, only required the terms to be made known to the bidders, and thus no injury, but some benefit might result to the defendant. This objection can not, therefore, be sustained. It is no objection to the combination of the executions, and one sale, that some of the executions required the sales on credits, and the others for money. A further objection to this sale is, that it appears that one of these executions was assigned to the deputy sheriff, when he made the levy, and another by an endorsement on the venditioni exponas, appeared to belong to another deputy, who made the sale, and the latter deputy, who made the sale, appeared to be, in fact, the security in one of the replevin bonds, and thus materially interested on both sides of the question. If this objection was clearly made out in point of fact, and had been seriously questioned in the court below, it might perhaps be difficult to get over it. But all that appears is, that one of these executions of fieri facias, which is returned as levied on the house and lot, by John Redman, deputy sheriff, & c., has an assignment on it purporting to be signed by the plaintiff, to "John Redman." A venditioni exponas appears to be endorsed by the clerk thus--"This execution is for the use of John Paton"--and the sale is returned, as made by John Paton, deputy sheriff. It is also true that one of the original executions is returned, "levied and replevied, John Paton security, bond enclosed," signed by "John Paton, deputy sheriff, &c." The names of the principal sheriff being added, as in all these returns is the case. The subsequent executions after this return, are against Finley, as principal, and John Paton as surety in the usual form. Although this appeared on these executions when produced by plaintiff in evidence, yet it is evident from the bill of exceptions, that the matter was passed over in silence, and no question was made concerning it. It is clear that if the point had been there made, there might have existed many ways of avoiding it. For instance, it might have been shewn that John Redman and John Paton, who were interested in these executions, were not the same as the deputy sheriffs engaged in the levy or sale; or if they were, that the interest of one, to wit, John Redman, did not accrue till after the levy was made; which seems probable enough, from a recurrence to dates, and he did not finally make the sale; or that their interest was extinguished long before the sale. And indeed it does not appear what authority the clerk had to endorse one of the executions of venditioni exponas, for the benefit of John Paton. *5 Query--In making title under a sheriff's sale, made under several executions, would the fact appearing that one of one executions was owned by the deputy who levied it, and that another was afterwards endorsed for the benefit of the deputy who made the sale and owned by him at that time, be fatal? Whether it would or would not effect the sale, because he was interested as security in one of the replevin bonds, which would probably induce him, to sell the property for as much as possible, we need not enquire; because the matter was not questioned in the court below; which raises a presumption that the party knew that the objection could be clearly obviated by shewing the person not the same, or in some other way, and that he then waived it, and it would take the appellee by surprise, and might do him injustice to permit the point to be stirred for the first time in this court, where no evidence to obviate it is admissible. This objection is, therefore, overruled. If such objection could avail against the title, they must be taken in the circuit court, and there urged--They will not avail taken here for the first time. The next objection to the title of the plaintiff, which we shall notice is this. The original judgments are all produced. Three of them by the return of the sheriff seem to have been replevied, and the names of the surety is returned. The subsequent executions appear to follow this return and to have issued against the surety returned, and no replevin bonds are shown; and hence the question arises, was the production of these bonds necessary, and is the title of the appellee defective without it? In making title under the sheriff's sale, the original judgment, execution returned replevied, with the name of the surety, and the corresponding execution on the bond are sufficient, prima facie, without producing the bond. It has been repeatedly held by this court, that as lands are by the act of assembly, to be sold in satisfaction of judgments, the judgment in sales of this sort, becomes a necessary muniment of title and must be produced. It has also been held that a delivery bond, and consequently a replevin bond, is a sufficinet judgment, to support a sale of this kind, Joyce vs. Farquar, 1 Marsh. 20. The force of this objection may be thus shewn; as a judgment is necessary and a replevin bond has the force of a judgment, and is sufficient without a judgment, and extinguishes the judgment, it ought, therefore, to be produced or the sale will not be good. This argument is not without weight and difficulty; but still we apprehend it ought not to be held conclusive. Here the judgment, the real foundation of the proceeding, is produced, and is that to which the land is subjected by law. The return of the sheriff shews that it is replevied with the name of the surety, and all subsequent executions correspond with this return, and purport to be on a replevin bond. All this ought to be held prima facie sufficient to sustain the title. To this may be added, replevin bonds are not recorded. They remain as loose papers filed in our clerk's offices; tho' only recorded note of them appears in the return of the sheriff, and the bond itself may easily fade, so as not to be legible, or may be lost or mislaid. To make them, therefore, an indispensable requisite of title, to support a sheriff's sale, after the original judgment, and the execution and return is produced from the record, would render titles acquired by sheriffs' sales very insecure, and that insecurity would be increased by lapse of time, against which the permanency of the record is designed to provide. *6 This objection can not, therefore, be sustained. And as we perceive no other vital defects in the title of the plaintiff below, we shall proceed to the consideration of other questions arising out of the defence set up. The defendants gave in evidence a lease from James Finley, for five years, and evidence conducing to shew that they had paid the rent, and that they had occupied the premises, under the lease, for about two years, and then moved the court to instruct the jury, that as Finley would be estopped by the lease, so would the lessor of the plaintiff, who claimed by execution under him. This instruction the court overruled, and we conceive correctly. There was no witness to the lease, or any proof when it was executed, except what its date affords, and that date is after the emanation and levy of several of the executions. Lease for years made by defendant, after the levy of one of several executions, under all which the land is afterwards sold, is overreached by the sale. It is true, that by the first section of our act of assembly, regulating conveyances, 1 Dig. L. K. 312, an unrecorded lease for a term, not exceeding five years, is admitted as valid; and if Finley, prior to the operation of these executions, or the existence of a lien under them, had passed away the estate by a lease, not enrolled for that period, the sale must have been subject to the lease, and the purchaser under the execution could only have acquired the reversionary interest of Finley, after the lease had expired. But the fourth section of the act, subjecting lands to the payment of debts, provides, that "every writ of fieri facias shall bind the property of the lands, tenements and hereditaments from the time it shall be delivered to the officer who shall without fee, endorse on every suit, the day and time of the day, when he received the same." Lease of land for a term not exceeding five years, need not be recorded. It is evident that the operation of this section disabled Finley from making any disposition of the estate, whereby it could elude the executions, and much more effectually was he disabled by the actual levy having been made upon the house and lot, under these writs. At that time he was deeply embarrassed, and under strong temptation, to make some disposition of the estate, whereby he could reap the benefit of, and keep his creditors out of it. To prevent such disposition, was the design of this law, and it makes all such alienations void in law, as if fraudulent against the execution. Hence this lease was certainly overreached. The only point having an apparent difficulty in this part of the case is, that some one or more of the executions under which the house was sold, were not levied or placed in the hands of the officer, till after this lease was made; hence it is insisted that these executions would have no operation on the property, and as the estate was sold under them also, it can not be valid. It is not correct that these executions could have no effect, even if the previous ones had not existed. They could have sold the title of Finley, subject to the lease. But as they could sell no more than that, how could they be blended with those which had? This question may be partially answered by another, how could the officer know of this lease, so as to make the discrimination; and how could the division now be made between that portion of the debts or executions, paramount to the lease and those inferior? The answer to this is, that neither law nor equity makes such a discrimination; but it is a general rule, that where one debt reaches an estate another may follow it, and reap the benefit of the proceeds, although the latter standing alone, could not have avoided the alienation. Hence, it has been often held that although a fraudulent conveyance may be invalid as to prior creditors, and valid as to subsequent ones, yet if the prior debts were let in, the subsequent ones should be admitted also, and the deed be held fraudulent as to the whole. The reason and equity of such a rule is apparent, and it can not be inapplicable or impertinent to the present case, where the law has declared the alienation positively void, and as it were, fraudulent. It would be a phenomenon in law, to leave the defendant in possession of part, because his deed was part void and part valid, or good as to some creditors and bad as to others. If the law brings such a subject into market, it will generally dispose of the whole of the proceeds, while there is a meritorious creditors left to claim his share. Hence the lease was entirely inoperative. The executions before the lease could sell and convey the interest leased, and the others the residue. *7 Where one execution in the hands of the sheriff over-reaches a lease of the debtor's property, all other executions received by him before the sale are let in, and the lease is inoperative as to all. One other questions was made which scarely deserves notice. The court was asked to tell the jury that the tenants were to be considered as tenants at will, to the lessor of the plaintiffs; and, therefore, he could not recover, without proving six months previous notice, to quit the premises. There was no privity between the tenants and the plaintiff's lessor. He had never given them the least intimation that they might remain, nor did they ask such leave of him; but on the contrary, claimed adversely to his title under a void lease, which they now urge against his right of possession. How, under such circumstances, they can be supposed to be his tenants at will, we can not divine. According to this doctrine every adverse holding acquiesced in for a day, may soon be tortured into a tenancy at will. One claiming adversely denied the privileges of a tenant at will. The judgment is affirmed, with costs. Crittenden, for appellant; Haggin, for appellee. Ky.App. 1827. Locke v. Coleman 4 T.B.Mon. 315, 20 Ky. 315, 1827 WL 1427 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 118 END OF DOCUMENT
