(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 411,  19 Ky. 411 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1330 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Doran v. Shaw. Dec. 20, 1826. *1 Depositions. Leading Interrogatories. Evidence. Bill of Exceptions. Records. Jurors. Verdict. Witness. Competence. Sheriffs. Practice. ERROR TO THE BRECKINRIDGE CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 143(2) 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k141 Affidavits and Testimony of Jurors 275k143 Impeachment of Verdict 275k143(2) k. Misconduct of or affecting jurors. Most  Cited Cases Evidence of jurors is not admissible to prove the improper interference of the attending sheriffs, by stating to them facts and giving them instructions. New Trial 275 k 143(2) 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k141 Affidavits and Testimony of Jurors 275k143 Impeachment of Verdict 275k143(2) k. Misconduct of or affecting jurors. Most  Cited Cases Jurors cannot be admitted to give evidence to impeach the verdict which they have rendered though they may prove that there was no verdict, or show that the verdict rendered was not intended. Appeal and Error 30 k 524 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(B) Scope and Contents 30k521 Evidence 30k524 k. Documents. Most Cited  Cases Documentary evidence used on the trial must be embodied in the bill of exceptions in order to become part of the record. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 69.1 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak69 Taking Testimony 307Ak69.1 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k44  Depositions) Answers to leading interrogatories should not be permitted to be read. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Doran, the plaintiff in error, being a deputy sheriff by virtue of an execution in his hands, in favor of Ogden and Hynes against John Redman, seized sundry goods, wares and merchandize in a store, as the property of Redman, and exposed the same to sale in satisfaction of the demand. Doran as sheriff levied and sells by fi. fa. the goods as the property of the defendants therein. Shaw, the defendant in error, brought an action of trespass vi et armis, against the sheriff, for taking and carrying away the goods claiming them as his property, by virtue of a transfer from Redman, which he alleged, exempted them from execution as the property of Redman. Shaw sues as owner of the goods. This cause was tried and the principal question in dispute, was whether the transfer to Shaw, was not fraudulent and in violation of the rights of creditors. The jury found for Doran, and judgment was rendered accordingly. Trial. Judgment for Doran. About a year after the term had passed by, in which the cause was tried, Shaw filed this bill, praying a new trial at law, relying exclusively on the ground that the jury in their retirement were divided, and remained out during the course of a night, in the charge of two deputy sheriffs, and that both of them improperly interfered with the jury. One of them by stating facts to the jury, conducing to shew, that the transfer to Shaw was fraudulent, and the other, by instructing them that they ought to find for Doran, which had great influence with the jury, and induced some of them to surrender their opinion, and to agree to find for Doran, which they, otherwise would not have done. He obtained an injunction against the costs at law.--He asserts his entire ignorance of this improper interference with the jury, till long after the term was over, at which the cause was tried. *2 Shaw's bill for new trial, on the ground that the jury had been tampered with and controlled by the deputy sheriffs. Doran answered, contesting these allegations. Answer of Doran. The court on a final hearing, decreed a new trial at law; but directed Shaw to pay the costs, both at law and in chancery. To reverse this decree, Doran has prosecuted this writ of error. Decree of the circuit court for new trial. At the commencement of the trial in the court below, the counsel for Doran pointed out leading questions in the depositions of the complainant, and moved the court to expunge every such question with their respective answers. Interrogatories and the answers objected to as leading. The court refused to do so, or to permit the counsel for the defendant to object to such questions, as the depositions were read, assigning as a reason, that in a chancery cause, it was the duty of the court to revise the whole depositions, and upon examination to give such weight to the depositions as they were entitled to, having a due regard to the influence, the manner of asking questions might have upon the answers given. Decision of the circuit court on the objections. That leading questions are improper, both in chancery and at law, is a point so well settled, that it would be a useless parade of authority to attempt to prove it. It might be a question whether such questions do or ??o not vitiate the whole deposition. But we need not now consider that, for the point is not made and there can be no doubt, that it vitiates the answers given, and renders them wholly incompetent, that is, they ought not to be read or heard at all. The decision of the court below, sustains the competency of the evidence, and only allows the objection to reach its credibility, which is contrary to the uniform current of authority. Leading interrogatories in both law and chancery, vitiate the answers and render them at least entirely incompetent and not to be heard in either court. Query--As to the whole deposition. If that doctrine was to prevail, it might as well be applied to other objections to competence, and even to cases where witnesses were interested. The ground assumed, appears to be based in this, that there being no jury, and the chancellor being the only tribunal which could hear and decide, he must be supposed capable of discriminating, between what was proper and improper evidence, and therefore a motion to reject as incompetent, was wholly unnecessary. If this reason is good, then the chancellor is bound to hear everything presented to him, whether it be irrelevant, incompetent, or incredible, and the parties are at liberty to crowd the record with what they please, and thus smother justice in its cradle. The rule which requires no leading interrogatories, or questions, which evince a coaxing disposition to the witness to answer as the party wishes him, is tested by experience, and the reason of it, is evident to every one who is well enough acquainted with human nature to discover the influence of persuasion and address upon weak or yielding minds, hence chancellors have always imposed upon the party who attempts it the penalty of a total rejection of the evidence. *3 The evidence is totally rejected as a penalty for the impropriety of putting the leading interrogatory. In the English chancery, as well as that of some of our sister states, and in the practice of the courts of the United States to this day parties are not permitted to confront the witnesses and put interrogatories to them face to face; but each party obtaining a dedimus must file his interrogatories to be annexed to the commission, and the opposite side files his counter interrogatories in the same way. These are proposed to the witness by the commissioners in private, and his answers written and sealed up and returned to the proper office, unseen by the parties, till opened and read by order, or rule of court, which is called passing publication. If in interrogatories thus transmitted a party was not allowed to insinuate what kind of an answer he wished, under pain of losing the testimony, the reason is much stronger for adhering to the rule, where the parties are permitted, as in our chancery practice by direct address, to put their enquiries, and to add the intimation of looks and gestures, to the influence of a leading question. English and Federal practice of taking depositions on interrogatories on the examination of the witnesses by the commissioners alone stated. Our chancery records are subject to revision on copies in an appellate court, therefore care should be taken by inferior tribunals to cleanse the record of improper matter filed by the parties, and everything filed there ought not to be considered as part. Hence that which the chancellor may reject is no longer to be considered as part of the record; and if either party conceives himself aggrieved by its rejection, he may obtain the statement of the chancellor that the document was rejected and why, or by analogy to proceedings at common law, as is the practice here, the party may take his exception, showing the rejection and procuring a revision in this court of the propriety of rejecting it. All rejected by the court below, as improper, ought to be laid aside and ought not to be certified here, except upon such exception. In like manner, the leading questions in this record with their answers, ought to have been cancelled. On the hearing below, all improper matter ought to be rejected and what is thus decided against constitutes no part of the record unless made so by bill of exceptions or a statement of the chancellor, to have the like effect. Insisting on a compliance with this rule, may impose some burden on our chancellors, to cleanse records, when depositions are taken in the loose manner used among us; but still for the sake of justice it must be borne. In other countries, exceptions might be referred to a master who would cleanse the record and make out a current statement of all proper evidence, and this statement preceded the decree, and no evidence was supposed to belong to the record not noticed in it. Here the chancellor has frequently to do the work of a master as well as his own, and these statements of evidence are dispensed with, But the reason is still more strong that only proper evidence should be left in the record, as there is no such statement pointing out what is proper. Otherwise our clerks from the specimens we have often before us, may certify what is unnecessary or improper, and what has not been used below, and thus the cause be here tried on evidence rejected in the inferior tribunals. *4 Where interrogatories are excepted to as leading, the chancellor ought to expunge them and the answers to them so that they may not be certified here.-- --If this be not done, this court will consider the cause without such questions or their answers. We shall therefore, consider this cause without all leading questions, and their answers. Another question is made, the decision upon which may be conclusive of the controversy without minutely examining the evidence. No proof of the improper acts of the deputy sheriffs in the jury room is produced, except the depositions of some of the jurors. The deputies themselves deny such interference, in their depositions. The court below was applied to, by the defendant's counsel to reject the depositions of these jurors, on the ground, that they proved improper acts in the jurors themselves, and led to an enquiry into the secrets of the jury room, and elicited the reasons for their finding, and made them witnesses to impeach and set aside their own verdict. Jurors can not be admitted to give evidence to impeach a verdict which they have rendered. Whether jurors can be admitted to give evidence to impeach the verdict which they have rendered, is a question that has been decided differently, by different courts in the sister states. In this state, as early as the case of Taylor v. Giger, Hard. 538; the question was decided in the negative. The cases then cited were considered, and the conclusion was, that they were only admissible to prove that there was no verdict, or to shew that the verdict rendered, was not intended. This case has been followed by other cases since, and the point may be considered at rest. Steele's heirs v. Logan, 3 Marsh, 394. --They may be examined to prove there was no verdict, or that the verdict rendered was not so intended. It is however, contended that this case is different from those decided, and forms an exception to the general rule; that here the jurors are called to prove improper conduct in the attending sheriffs, and not in themselves. If this was a prosecution against the sheriffs, for this breach of duty, we should have no doubt, that the jurors were competent witnesses. But this is not the object of the proof. They took from the sheriff his instructions and assertions, and some depose that they conceived at the time, that he had a right to give them, and that trusting to his assertions, they changed their opinions and absolutely agreed to the verdict rendered. The motives, or reasons which influenced their determination to change, and their wrongful admission of that influence, is the very essence of their testimony in favor of the complainant. And it is to prohibit an enquiry into these motives, and these influences resorted to in the jury room, that they are excluded. It is because, that parties by subsequent tampering and reasoning with jurors, might sap many verdicts, by using them as witnesses to prove the grounds of their finding; and this is the very matter enquired into in this cause, and their testimony was improperly admitted. *5 Nor can the jurors for the purpose of setting aside their verdict be examined to prove the improper interference of the attending sheriffs, by stating to them facts and giving them instructions. But in a prosecution of the sheriffs for their improper conduct in the jury room the jurors are competent. The decree of the court below, must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded with directions there to dismiss the bill with costs and damages. Denny, attorney general, and Hardin for plaintiff; Mayes for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Doran v. Shaw 3 T.B.Mon. 411, 19 Ky. 411, 1826 WL 1330 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
