(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 168,  10 Ky. 168 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1186 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. George Calhoon v. James Baird. Dec. 13, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE NELSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Estoppel 156 k 71 156 Estoppel 156III Equitable Estoppel 156III(B) Grounds of Estoppel 156k71 k. Disclaimer. Most Cited Cases The holder of an equity under an elder patent, though he may have surrendered possession to a junior patentee, is not estopped, after acquiring the legal title, to assert his legal claim, unless 20 years' possession has been had under the surrender. Infants 211 k 1334 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(C) Evidence 211k1333 Presumptions, Inferences, and Burden of Proof 211k1334 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k98) As long as an infant is under disability, lapse of time furnishes no presumption against him, and does not operate prejudicially to his rights. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This case was in this court on a former occasion, and is reported 1 Marsh. 214. On the second trial, the lessors of the plaintiff shewed the patents of John May, covering the land in controversy, and conveyances from his heirs to themselves and that the defendants were in possession. The defendants shewed, that the lands in question were settled at a very early period, not less than thirty years before the commencement of this suit, by a person who lived upon it, claiming title under no other claim, and setting up no title in himself: That he afterwards sold out his improvements to one of the present lessors of the plaintiff, who entered, claiming an equity mediately through his brother, in the patents of May, which are now set up by him to authorize his recovery: That he, the lessor of the plaintiff, held the land till within the period of twenty years before this suit was commenced, when the defendant, Calhoon, who holds a patent on the land of a younger date than that of May, set up and urged his claim as the better title. To him the lessor of the plaintiff, Baird, agreed to surrender the possession, and did actually do so; and by order of court, and the award of referees thereon, Baird and Calhoon settled the controversy which existed between them, as to rents and improvements. The counsel for the defendants moved the court to instruct the jury, that from the great lapse of time, they had a right to presume a release of the estate from Baird to Calhoon, on the surrender aforesaid; but the court overruled the motion, and an exception was taken. We see no error in this decision. However favorable to this presumption the lapse of time might have been, the presumption itself was strongly repelled by other circumstances, shewn in the cause. John May, the patentee, is shewn to have died at an early period, holding the legal estate; and he left his heirs infants, and incapable of conveying for about 20 years after his death, and they never conveyed to Baird till a short time before the commencement of this suit; and Baird, when he surrendered the possession, had not, and did not pretend to have, any estate, except an equity under his brother, who claimed an equity under May. Such circumstances, we conceive, repelled the presumption of a release, and instead of giving the jury a right to presume it, as the defendants supposed, they forbade its indulgence. *2 Lapse of time, coupled with explanatory circumstances, as infancy, does not justify a presumption against the claim of the infant, or that it has been released. The counsel for plaintiff then moved the court to instruct the jury, in substance, that if they believed the whole of the evidence, they ought to find for the plaintiff. The court reserved this instruction, and permitted the jury to find a verdict on the issue, subject to the opinion of the court on the point reserved. The court afterwards decided in favor of the plaintiff, and gave judgment accordingly. In examining the evidence on both sides, we discover no contradiction or contrariety, when that of each party is compared. They both had patents conveying the land. That of the plaintiffs was the eldest; and the title of the lessors appeared to be regularly deduced. The occupancy of the defendants had not been long enough to furnish a bar, by the defendant's own shewing. And although the lessor, Baird, had once surrendered the possession to the claim of the defendants, supposing it to be superior, before he held the legal title of the claim, which he professed to hold, yet this furnished no valid objection against his regaining the possession after he had acquired the legal estate, and was sensible of the superiority of his claim. Upon the whole case, then, we discover no legal impediments to the plaintiff's recovery, and see no error in the opinion of the court below. Though the holder of an equity under an elder patent may have surrendered possession to a junior patent, yet he is not estopped after acquiring the legal title to assert his legal claim, unless 20 years' possession has been had under the surrender. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Bibb for appellant. Ky.App. 1820. Calhoon v. Baird 3 A.K.Marsh. 168, 10 Ky. 168, 1820 WL 1186 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
