(Cite as: 7 T.B.Mon. 101,  23 Ky. 101 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1213 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Logan v. Steele's Heirs. Apr. 21, 1828. *1 Landlord and Tenant. Estoppel. Vendor and Vendee. Decrees. Evidence. Conveyance. Merger of Titles. Warranty. ERROR TO THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judicial Sales 229 k 50(1) 229 Judicial Sales 229k49 Title and Rights of Purchasers 229k50 In General 229k50(1) k. In general. Most Cited Cases A decree and conveyance by a commissioner thereunder passes all the title the party had, though not sanctioned by the suit. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 189 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(A) As to Each Other 400k189 k. Estoppel of purchaser to deny title of vendor.  Most Cited Cases A decree for the title and possession against the vendor and in favor of a third person dissolves the relation and absolves the vendee in possession from all further duties, and the vendee might deny that the vendor was the one to whom he was to look for title. Ejectment 142 k 12 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k8 Title to Support Action 142k12 k. Paper title. Most Cited Cases The effect of the conveyance by a commissioner under a decree is the same as of a deed by the party according to the decree. Ejectment 142 k 23 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k22 Defenses 142k23 k. In general. Most Cited Cases A vendee in possession, whose vendor conveys to another in violation of his contract, is absolved, and may deny the title he entered under, and purchase and defend under any other claim. Ejectment 142 k 90(1) 142 Ejectment 142III Pleading and Evidence 142k87 Admissibility of Evidence 142k90 Title and Right to Possession 142k90(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases A void decree and deed for the title, in an action of ejectment, may be given in evidence by defendant to prove that he held adversely. Estates in Property 154 k 10(1) 154 Estates in Property 154k10 Merger 154k10(1) k. In general. Most Cited Cases Where two or more titles unite in one person, they are merged, and the conveyance of one passes all. Estoppel 156 k 38 156 Estoppel 156II By Deed 156II(B) Estates and Rights Subsequently Acquired 156k36 Instruments Operating on Title Subsequently Acquired 156k38 k. Conveyances with covenants. Most Cited  Cases A subsequently acquired title by the grantor under warranty deed inures to the benefit of the grantee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Logan brought his ejectment against Moore as tenant in possession, and the heirs of Richard Steele entered themselves as defendants, for, and with Moore their tenant. Ejectment by Logan against Moore and Steele, his landlord. On the trial, Logan gave in evidence a patent from the Commonwealth to Hugh Thompson, and a conveyance from Thompson to Lewis Craig, for 171 acres thereof, and a conveyance from Lewis Craig and others to himself, dated November 16th, 1799, embracing, not only the 171 acres aforesaid, but adjoining lands, amounting in the whole, to 520 acres; the patent of a certain Joseph M'Nitt, having interfered with the patent of Thompson, to the extent of 171 acres, and Craig having united in himself both patents on that ground, before he conveyed to Logan, Thompson's patent being the oldest. Plaintiff's title. He next gave in evidence, an article of agreement between himself and Richard Steele, by the provisions of which, he sold 100 acres, part of the said 171 acres, to Steele, part of the price of which was paid, and the rest appeared to remain due. This article is dated, October 7th, 1801. Steele entered and received the possession from Logan under this purchase, and resided thereon till his death, having previously made a will, in which he devised the 100 acres to his widow for life; and from her it came to the possession of her children, who were the heirs of Richard Steele, who had placed the present tenant, Moore, in possession. During the tenancy of Mrs. Steele, the widow, under the will of her late husband, she brought her bill in equity, against Logan for a conveyance, which he resisted, by showing that the purchase money was not paid, and her bill was ultimately discontinued. The foregoing were the facts and title on which Logan relied for a recovery. The defendants then gave in evidence, a deed of conveyance of the same land, dated the 14th day of June, 1803, from Logan to James M'Chord of Pennsylvania. Title of the defendant. They next gave in evidence the record of a suit in chancery, from the general court of this State, Barnard M'Nitt against said Logan, for the same land, in which the bill claimed it under Joseph M'Nitt's patent, because Barnard was the true heir of the original owner of the pre-emption, instead of Joseph, under whom Logan held, and because the patent issued wrongfully to said Joseph. This bill, the General Court dismissed, but on the appeal of B. M'Nitt the complainant, this court reversed that decree, and decided that B. M'Nitt was entitled to recover the land, and directed a decree in conformity thereto, in the General Court. This is the same opinion and decree of this court, reported in Littell's select cases, 60. After the return of the cause to the General Court, that court proceeded to effectuate the opinion and mandate of this, by preparatory steps and a final decree; from which, Logan, being dissatisfied, appealed, and the decree of the General Court was affirmed, and this is the case re ported in Littell's select cases, 119. The decree so affirmed, directed Logan to convey about 540 acres, including the one hundred now in contest, to the said Barnard M'Nitt. Logan failed to convey, and the General Court, at their January term, 1816, appointed a commissioner to convey the land for him, and the commissioner, at the same term, reported a deed of conveyance, pursuant to the decree, and containing a warranty therein, on behalf of Logan, against himself, and all claiming under him; and said conveyance was regularly acknowledged by the commissioner, and ordered to record by the court. *3 Record of the case of B. M'Nitt v. Logan, given in evidence. The defendants next gave in evidence, the record of a suit in chancery of the Franklin circuit court, wherein the heirs of Richard Steele were complainants, and Barnard M'Nitt and said David Logan were defendants, in which said heirs claim a conveyance of the same land, either from M'Nitt or Logan, in whichsoever the legal title might be, by a virtue of a contract made between said Richard Steele their ancestor, and Barnard M'Nitt. In this suit, David Logan answered, resisting their claim, and against Barnard M'Nitt, the complainants, proceeded by publication, as a non-resident. At the trial of that cause the complainants dismissed their bill as to Logan, because, as the record says, it appeared that Logan, by the aforesaid commissioner, in the General Court, had conveyed his title to Barnard M'Nitt. But against M'Nitt they proceeded by default, and obtained a decree, directing him to convey the land to them. A commissioner was appointed who conveyed the land from McNitt to them accordingly. They also gave other evidence, conducing to show, that Richard Steele in his lifetime, and his heirs since his death, at the expiration of the tenancy of their mother, held the land adversely under the claim of said Barnard M'Nitt. Case of Steele's heirs against B. M'Nitt and D. Logan. To these records Logan made no other reply than objecting to the admission of them, as improper and irrelevant evidence. But the court overruled the objection, and he excepted. Objection to the records and exception. To rebut the evidence of the conveyance, which he had made to M'Chord, in 1803, he gave in evidence a re-conveyance from M'Chord to himself, dated May 22nd, 1815. M'Cord's re-conveyance to Logan. On this evidence, the counsel for Logan moved the court to instruct the jury in substance, that if they found that Logan sold to, and put Richard Steele into possession, under the sale evidenced by the article of agreement aforesaid, and that Moore was tenant to his widow during her life, and after her death, to her and Richard Steele's heirs, and that the patent to Thompson, and his conveyance to Craig, and from Craig to Logan, covered the land, the records offered by the defendants did not prevent the lessor of the plaintiff from recovering But the court overruled the motion, and instructed the jury, that the decree and the commissioner's deed, made in pursuance thereof, did preclude the plaintiff from recovering. Instructions. The jury found for the defendants accordingly; and Logan has appealed, and complains in this court that these decisions of the court below were erroneous. The first point that presents itself in reviewing the decisions of the inferior court, is, the right of Steele's heirs to question the title of Logan, as their ancestor was a purchaser from, and took possession under him, by an executory contract. Question stated. It is a well settled general rule, that when the relation of landlord and tenant has existed between the plaintiff and defendant in an ejectment, the tenant can not gainsay the landlord's title, and set up an outstanding title, existing either in himself or others. *4 Tenant can not gainsay the landlord's title. But this rule has been held by this court flexible to circumstances, as in the case of Swan vs. Wilson, 1 Marshall, 99, where the tenant had gotten a decree against the landlord, for the title to be conveyed to him on some existing equity between them. Where the tenant obtains a decree against the landlord, for the title, he is absolved from his fealty and may deny the title he entered under. This decree was held sufficient, so far to destroy the relation of landlord and tenant, as to absolve the tenant from his fealty, and permit him to show a superior title out of the landlord. The same doctrine of estoppel to question the title of the plaintiff on part of the defendant, has been applied in this court, to a tenant holding by virtue of an executory contract, who had received possession from the plaintiff. Such is the case of Connelly's heirs vs. Chiles &c. 2 Marsh. 242. And although this case has been complained of as obscure, by the Supreme Court of the United States, in the case of  Blight v. Rochester, 7 Wheat. 550, yet it is easily understood by us, and its principles admitted, and not overthrown by the case of Blight v. Rochester. One who obtains possession under an existing contract, can not deny the title of his vendor. Blight's heirs v. Rochester This is a summary of the case. Hays sold to Connelly, gave his bond with surety to convey, and gave him the possession of the land. Connelly took possession of the land and enjoyed it long, no conveyance having been made, till long after the bond forfeited by a breach in not conveying. Connelly sued Hays, or rather his surety, on this breach, and recovered, and received the full value of the land. Vendee by executory contract, after recovering at law for vendor's failure to convey, must surrender the possession, and can not protect himself by an outstanding title. Hays' heirs brought their ejectment against Connelly, or his heirs, to regain from them the possession which Connelly had received from their ancestor, especially as Connelly had completely rescinded the contract and recovered the price. He was in this situation bound to restore the land. Connelly's heirs set up an outstanding title, which existed when their ancestor had bought of Hays, and under which Connelly had taken protection, after the recovery back of the value of the land from the surety of Hays. Connelly or his heirs were held to be estopped to set up this outstanding title, or to question the title of Hays, under which he had taken possession. The question then is, does that case govern the present? We conceive not. There are circumstances in this case, which distinguish it from that, and authorize a different decision. In the first case, Logan himself, had disaffirmed his contract with Steele, and destroyed the relation of vendor and vendee between them, by conveying the same land to M'Chord in 1803, which he had contracted to convey to Steele in 1800. From that moment Steele could treat him as a stranger, and was no longer bound to look to him for a title, or to hold the possession for, or under him. If Steele wished a conveyance, he must go to M'Chord, and not to Logan. If he wished to rescind the contract and restore the possession, he was bound to restore to M'Chord, who was then clothed with the rights of Logan. This fact, if no other existed, fully warranted the defendants here to question the title of Logan. *5 Vendee in possession, whose vendor conveys to another in violation of his contract, is absolved, and may deny the title he entered under, and purchase and defend under any other claim. But if this conveyance of the land to M'Chord, was out of the question, and Logan had ever since his sale to Steele, continued to hold the title himself, there is another important circumstance here, which fully authorizes the defendants to question the title of Logan, and that is the decree of the general court, directing Logan to convey his title to Barnard M'Nitt. This was a real controversy, commenced in the year 1803. At what time the process was served on Logan, does not appear from the record, as the process is mislaid; but Logan answered, and the issue was made up in 1804, and in 1808 this court determined that B. M'Nitt was entitled to the land, and shortly afterwards the general court effectuated that determination. It is immaterial whether that suit was prosecuted in the name of M'Nitt for the benefit of Steele, as some parts of this record would seem to prove, or whether Steele was a stranger to it, and in no other manner privy, than as a purchaser by executory contract from Logan. It directed the title of Logan, instead of going to Steele, as Logan had covenanted it should, to go to M'Nitt, by virtue of a paramount equity, and whether rightfully or not, at this day, is wholly immaterial. From the date of that decree, as was well observed in argument, Steele was absolved from all duties to Logan, and the relation between the two as vendor and vendee was dissolved, and Steele was at liberty to say, that Logan was not the one to whom he was to look for title, or to whom he was bound to restore the possession, as that possession was decreed to another, by a judicial sentence obligatory on Logan. Decree for the title and possession against the vendor by articles, dissolves the relation, and absolves the vendee in possession from all further duties. On the question whether these records ought to have been rejected, there can be no doubt that the record of M'Nitt vs. Logan was properly admitted. If Logan could give the act of a conveyance from Craig to himself in evidence, to operate on the rights of the defendants, they consequently could give in evidence, any conveyance from Logan to others, or a judicial determination directing Logan to convey to others. If a conveyance from a stranger could give Logan a title, so a conveyance from him to a stranger, or directing to be made to a stranger by an irreversible decree, could remove the estoppel to question Logan's title. Record of such a decree is competent evidence in an ejectment by vendor v. vendee. As to the record of Steele's heirs against M'Nitt, there are various objections made to it in argument, which are formidable, and must have been decided, if the court below, after admitting it, had instructed the jury that it passed any title. But as the case is presented, there is no necessity of deciding, whether that record did, or did not, strip M'Nitt of the title, or whether Steele's heirs took nothing by it. For if it be conceded, (without deciding the question), that this decree is void, as well as the title made under it by the commissioner, still it might be given in evidence to show how Steele claimed to hold. We have seen that he was at liberty, after certain events, to hold adversely to Logan, and to question his title, and this decree and deed, though void, might be used to prove that he actually did so. It was an attempt to get a title, on which the representatives of Steele might place confidence, although it deserved none. On the same principle, a void title may be given in evidence to show extent of claim, and that the possession is adverse when the statute of limitations is concerned, and length of possession gives title, though the deed does not, and the statute operates as an estoppel to question the validity of the deed. Indeed to sanction such titles is the object of the act. For he that has a valid title needs no bar to protect him. *6 Void decree and deed may be given in evidence to prove how a party held and the extent of his claim. The remaining question is, the effect of those records, as the court below decided that they were conclusive against the plaintiff. We perceive no objection to this decision. The decree and the commissioner's deed, which seems to have been made in conformity thereto, were documents of a high grade of evidence, and on which the court could decide. The conveyance by the commissioner ought to be construed to do what Logan himself ought to have done, in obedience to the decree, as the act of the commissioner is by a statute, the substitute for his own deed. Giving it this construction, it was conclusive that Logan had no title, and therefore, could not recover, and this is what we have seen the defendants were permitted to show, if they could. Effect of the conveyance by a commissioner under a decree is the same as of deed made by the party according to the decree. It is said that the decree of M'Nitt vs. Logan, is for the claim of Joseph M'Nitt only, and therefore, can not affect the claim of Thompson, which Logan also held. It is true, that the equity set out, and the decree obtained against him, is a certain decree for the title or patent of Joseph M'Nitt, and there is no intimation either in bill or answer, that Logan had acquired any other title to the ground. But this can make no possible difference. The moment these two titles or claims of Joseph M'Nitt, and Thompson were united in the person of Logan, one merged in the other, and we are acquainted with no process of separation, by which they could be disunited--how he could convey one and keep the other, and the conveyance under the decree would consequently take both. When two or more titles unite in one person, they are merged, and his subsequent conveyance of one passes all. The existence of another and superior title by virture of which he held the land, might have been a good defence for him against the suit of M'Nitt, if he had set it up. But as he did not do so, it matters not how many other claims he may have acquired, or how strong or valid they may be; they would all pass by the decree and the conveyance in pursuance thereof. For a party can not be permitted, in a case of that character, to try one defence after another, in a new controversy on each. On that hypothesis, controversies of this character would be endless, and the doctrine that res adjudicata is conclusive between the parties on the same subject matter, would fall to the ground. Decree and conveyance by a commissioner, has the effect to pass all the titles the party had, though not sanctioned in the suit. But it is contended that, as Logan had conveyed the land to M'Chord, before there is any evidence litis pendentis, between Logan and Barnard M'Nitt, as the conveyance of Logan to M'Chord bears date before the filing of M'Nitt's bill, and that as M'Chord was not party to that suit, his rights or the title which he held, could not be prejudiced by that suit. This may be correct, if M'Chord was now the plaintiff. B. M'Nitt may not have succeeded by the decree, in recovering any part of this 100 acres, and yet the decree and conveyance of M'Nitt be conclusive against him, in this action. It must be remembered that the decree directed him to convey, with warranty against all claiming under him, and the deed executed by the commissioners, is as broad in it warranty as the decree. M'Chord, before the commissioners executed this deed, had re-conveyed to Logan, and of course, the title gotten from M'Chord, which was hitherto unaffected by M'Nitt's decree, passed by the deed of the commissioner, as really, as if Logan had executed the deed himself in obedience to this decree. His warranty will still stand in his way, even if he should acquire many subsequent titles. He would be estopped to assert them against his warranty, which binds him to let the land alone till that warranty is released or removed. *7 Commissioner's deeds pass all the title the party has at the time--and a warranty in such deed, directed by the decree, operates to pass to the grantee the benefit of all title the party may afterwards acquire. There is, therefore, no error in the judgment of the court below, and it must be affirmed with costs. Wickliffe, for appellant; Haggin, Depew and Loughborough, for appellees. Ky.App. 1828. Logan v. Steele's Heirs 7 T.B.Mon. 101, 23 Ky. 101, 1828 WL 1213 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
