(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 10,  22 Ky. 10 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1618 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Patterson v. Brown. Oct. 15, 1827. *1 Limitations. Merchant--Partners. Accounts. ERROR TO THE MERCER CIRCUIT; WILL. L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 29(4) 241 Limitation of Actions 241I Statutes of Limitation 241I(B) Limitations Applicable to Particular Actions 241k29 Accounts 241k29(4) k. Partnership Accounts. Most Cited  Cases Partnership 289 k 114 289 Partnership 289III Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities of Partners 289III(C) Actions Between Partners 289k114 k. Time to Sue, and Limitations. Most Cited  Cases Partnership 289 k 321 289 Partnership 289VII Dissolution, Settlement, and Accounting 289VII(D) Actions for Dissolution and Accounting 289k321 k. Time to Sue, Limitations, and Laches. Most Cited  Cases A claim for a balance due by one partner to another, on dissolution of the firm, is barred by lapse of five years. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The complainant charges in the bill, that he and the defendants were partners in a grocery store; that they had long since dissolved that partnership, and had never settled their accounts, and that after making many amicable efforts and demands for a settlement, he had failed. He exhibits his account; charges the balance to be in his favor, and prays an account and decree in his favor. Bill by Brown against Patterson to settle a partnership account. The defendant admits the partnership and its dissolution; denies any balance, and relies on the statute of limitation in bar of the demand. It turns out in proof that more than five years had elapsed since the dissoultion of the partnership, and abandonment of its objects. Answer of Patterson denying a balance and relying on the statute of limitations. The court, nevertheless, took an account, and decreed that a balance should be paid to the complainant, and to reverse that decree the defendant has prosecuted his writ of error. Decree of the circuit court. This brings us to the question arising out of the general statute of limitations, which was left open by this court in the case of  Lansdale v. Brashear, fall term, 1826, 3 Monroe 330: that is, whether the exception in the statute, from the effects of the bar of "such accounts as concern the trade of merchandize, between merchant and merchant, their factors or servants," embraces the accounts of one merchant partner against his co-partner, arising during the existence of the firm, and existing more than five years after the dissolution? It must be confessed that these parties were merchants in fact, according to the definition of the term adopted in the case cited. *2 Construction of the statute of limitations to personal actions in England not concurred in here. It may at first seem singular that a statute of limitations should exist so long as ours has done, first in England, then in Virginia, and finally in this state, and this question remain without express adjudication. But we have sought in vain in the English and Virginia chancery, as well as that of New York for an express adjudication, and in all these places the statute is expressed in the same terms in this respect with our own. This singularity need not be wondered at, when we consider that all these courts have annihilated the general provisions of the statute by placing all accounts where any one item of the account came within the bar, without its operation, and also fixing accounts between merchant and merchant beyond the effect of the exception and within the bar, if no single item comes within the number of years adopted by the statute. This construction of the statute blended all accounts into one mass, those between partners as well as others, and left the case of co-partners, in taking an account between them on the footing of all other accounts, and none stood on a privileged footing. These decisions have been justly disregarded by this court, in obedience to the express words of our own statute. We have said, in accordance with the Supreme court of the nation, that some kind of accounts, by the exception, were privileged and subjected to no bar. This departure from the precedents found in other countries has imposed upon us the necessity of ascertaining what kind of accounts these are which come within the exception, and it is placed before us as a new question, hitherto unsettled and arising out of a proper construction of the statute. Accounts between the partners of a firm of merchants is not embraced by the terms "accounts concerning the trade of merchandise between merchant and merchant" contained in the exception in the statute of limitations. Hence such demands are barred by the lapse of five years. Co-partners as these are, being in fact merchants, the first clause of the exception would seem to meet their case, and their mutual accounts with each other, may be said to be "accounts, which concern the trade of merchandise." But the construction of this clause alone, ought not to settle the question. For if it could, then all dealings in the way of trade, between a retail merchant and his ordinary customers, whereby an account was created, could with propriety be said to be accounts which "concern the trade of merchandise," and evidently such accounts, where one of the parties is not a merchant, can not come within the exception. The latter clause must therefore determine the question: that is, accounts between "merchant and merchant." Both parties must be merchants dealing with each other in their several businesses; between such there is no bar. Now it is clear that co-partners as to each other can not with propriety be said to be merchant and merchant. By their union they annihilate their plurality, and as to strangers they become one merchant, and do not, as to each other, stand in the relation which one merchant bears to another. The statute intended, therefore, only to except the dealings between mercantile houses, whether one or both of them was or was not a co-partnership. Their accounts should not be barred, while the private accounts between themselves are not excepted. For during the partnership there can be no bar, because the agreement to credit each other still exists. After their dissolution there is no greater reason for excepting them than other dealers, for settlement then necessarily follows, if they are prudent men, and it is expedient for the state that their controversies should cease, as those of other individuals. The reason why the exception was made corroborates this construction. It was commercial policy that dictated it. Merchants must necessarily deal with, and liberally credit each other, and that in cases where it could not be supposed that obligations would or could be taken. Credit and confidence must necessarily exist and be continued for a length of time. To compel a settlement of mutual accounts by suit, or else to bar them, would to some extent diminish credit, and it was, therefore, thought proper to place merchants on a privileged footing, as to time, in their dealings with each other, while all other accounts should be subject to the bar. With this design the last words of the exception concurs, by adding, "their factors or servants," as it was not thought proper to compel them to settle up their accounts arising from consignments and remittances with and to their factors or sub-dealers, within the period fixed by the limitation. All this has an eye to the dealings between house and house, in the course of trade, and does not apply to partners who have ceased to deal with each other by dissolution. Their case is not excepted, nor can their accounts with each other on their own books, be termed accounts between merchant and merchant within the meaning of the exception contained in the act, and the bar, therefore, applies. *3 Decree reversed with costs, and cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill with costs. Daviess, for plaintiff; Haggin and Loughborough, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Patterson v. Brown 6 T.B.Mon. 10, 22 Ky. 10, 1827 WL 1618 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
