(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 158,  21 Ky. 158 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1520 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Prebels v. Chism. Jun. 11, 1827. *1 County Creditors. ERROR TO THE GREENUP COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Counties 104 k 206(2) 104 Counties 104XI Claims Against County 104k206 Effect of Allowance or Disallowance 104k206(2) k. Reconsideration and Second Audit. Most Cited  Cases After the county court, sitting as a court of claims, has allowed a claim against the county, and laid a levy for its payment, it has no power to vacate the order of allowance, and disallow the claim, the allowance of the claim being conclusive against the county. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Prebels made a motion against the defendant in error, as sheriff of the county for failing to pay to him the sum of twenty dollars, allowed to him as a county creditor, after the same had become due. The defendant gave in evidence, by way of defense, an order of the county court relative to said claim against the county, made more than one year after the order allowing the claim, at the regular court of claims, and indeed after the sheriff had become liable to this motion for not paying up the claim. This last order reads thus: Motion by a county creditor. Order of the county court rescinding the order making the appropriation claimed by plaintiff. "Ordered, That the order made at the last November county court, allowing John Prebels $20, for boarding and keeping Robert Dunlap, be rescinded and set aside. The court below decided against the claim in support of their last order, to reverse which judgment this writ of error is prosecuted. Judgment of the county court. We can not attach any credit to the last order of that court, or allow it to be of any validity. For it appears on its face to be ex parte, and that Prebels had no notice of it, and it is contrary to well settled principles, that such proceeding, reversing his former allowance, without making him a party, should be given in evidence against Prebels, or be made to operate upon his rights. The claim was a claim against the county. The court was the tribunal which had decided it in favor of Prebels. They could not act thereon again, after Prebels was out of court, without calling him back, with more propriety than they could have reversed a judgment against an individual in his favor, which they had previously rendered. Ex parte orders of the county court reversing their orders, allowing and ordering the payment of claims made at a subsequent term are nought. Besides, if Prebles had been party to the last order, reversing the allowance of his claim, we are aware of no power possessed by the county courts, after they have laid their levy, to review or reverse their former allowances in favor of the claimants. They make the allowances at a fixed period, at which the different claimants are to appear and assert their claims, and the court is bound to decide on their merits. If claims presented are allowed, the entry of allowance is conclusive against the county, and although the allowance is not a judgment, yet it is to operate with the same binding effect, and the court has no power at a subsequent term to retry the merits of the claim, and reverse the allowance, and just put the claim of the creditor at constant hazard till the money is paid to him, and indeed long afterwards. For if the power exists we are aware of no limitation to the exercise of it. *2 After the court of claims the county court have no power to reverse the orders allowing and directing the payment of claims. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded with directions to enter judgment against the sheriff. Brown, for plaintiff; Triplett, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Prebels v. Chism 5 T.B.Mon. 158, 21 Ky. 158, 1827 WL 1520 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
