(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 138,  17 Ky. 138 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1510 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Creighton, &c. v. Bilbo. Oct. 16, 1824. *1 Entries, Geography, History, Blue-Licks. ERROR TO THE FLEMING CIRCUIT; ELI SHORTRIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases In a call for an entry, one of the names of the three persons by whom the entry was made was omitted.  Held, that the call was good, as it could not be presumed that the two parties mentioned would locate the land in their own names, after or before they had located it jointly with the third. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. This is a bill filed asserting the validity of an entry againt an elder grant, and twenty years' adverse possession is relied on as a bar to the relief prayed. The proof is contradictory as to the date of settlement; some witnesses prove it to have been more, and some less than twenty years before the commencemnt of the suit. (1.) We are, however, relieved from deciding between these witnesses, by another point in the cause. The appellee was not the patentee, but holds a conveyance from him, of part of a larger tract, executed in 1789; and all the testimony agrees that the adverse settlement relied on, was long since that period; and there is no proof in the cause, that the adverse settlement relied on was within the lines of the appellee, who was complainant below; and it is rather to be inferred that it was not within his lines, although there is proof that it was within the lines of both the claims now in contest. (1) The purchaser of a part of a tract from the junior patentee, is not prejudiced by an adverse possession of the residue, under the elder patent, taken subsequent to his conveyance. Admitting then, that the adverse claimant did enter within the interference, in due time, and on that part of the land retained by the junior patentee, and not conveyed to the complainant, the entry thus made could not bar or prejudice the complainant. After his conveyance, the claim was several, and his right might be adverse to his own grantee, and no laches on the part of the patentee, in not pursuing his rights in time against an adverse holder, could operate against the complainant; but an entry on his part was necessary also. The merits of the claims must, therefore, be investigated; or, rather, the merits of the claim set up by the complainant; for the defendants rely on their elder grant, and have not attempted to sustain their entry. The entry set up by the complainant is to this effect: "January 27, 1783--John Durham, assignee of John Burton, enters 2,035 acres of land, on treasury warrant No. &c. to begin at the lower corner of William Linn and John William's entry, on the upper salt spring on Licking creek, and running thence down the north side of said creek, and binding on the same, as far as will amount to two miles, when reduced to a straight line; thence extending from each end of said reduced line, a northwardly course, at right angles, for quantity." *2 John Durham's entry of 2,035 acres, held valid. The entry set up by the appellee, as called for in this entry and fixing the point of beginning reads thus: "June 22d, 1780--William Linn, James Barbour and John Williams, enter 1,000 acres upon a pre-emption warrant, beginning one fourth of a mile below the Big Blue-Lick, on Licking, on the south side thereof, running on both sides of the said creek and east and south, for quantity." Linn, Barbour & Williams' entry of 1,000 acres. It is contended that this entry cannot be sustained, and if it can, that it will not suit the locative calls of the appellee's entry. (2.) Of the notoriety of Licking there is no doubt, and it is proved that the Blue-Lick was notorious long before, and at the date of this entry, and that it was equally well known by the names of Upper Blue-Lick or Upper Salt Spring on Licking. There is no proof in this cause, that it was known by the discriminating appellation, "the Big Blue-Lick." It is, however, shown that it is a large spring, or rather two springs discharging themselves into one basin, situated south of the river Licking, a few yards from the stream, and discharging itself into it. This would be a sufficient description of an unrivalled object, especially such an unusual one as a large salt spring, which was and must be singular. (2) The "Big Blue Lick on Licking," is a sufficient description of the "Upper Blue-Lick," or "upper salt spring on Licking," there being no rival object. It is urged, however, that it is rivalled by a similar object, several miles below it, and that this object is intimated in the complainant's entry. The "Lower Blue-Licks," do not successfully rival the "Upper Blue-Lick," for the call in this entry for the "Big Blue-Lick," without evidence in the record. There is no proof in the cause, of the notoriety of the Lower Blue-Licks; and to supply this, it is urged, that they are objects that have been held notorious by this court, without proof, as part of the history of the country. It is true these objects have been so held with regard to entries of a later date than the present. Whether they should be taken as historically notorious, as early as June 1780, has never been decided. But assuming it for the present that they were to be so taken, the same history tells us that there are two of them, one on each side of the river, and nearly opposite to each other; and if the entry of Linn, Williams and Barbour is applied to the river at the lower Licks, it will probably include both of these, when it shows its object to be a solitary large spring. The Lower Blue-Licks have been held geographically notorious, but not so early as 1780. If the court, from general geography and history, held the Lower Blue Licks notorious in 1780, they would notice the number, situation and perhaps size of the spring and conclude that the place did not as well suit the call for the "Big Blue Lick," as the "Upper Blue Lick." *3 Besides the lower Licks are not shown, either of them, to be equal in size to the upper. Whether we can from historical information, notice the comparative difference between these two, or rather three springs is a questionable matter, which it is not necessary now to decide. (3.) For if we are not to know it historically, the party opposing this entry ought to have shown that the rival object suited the call equally well. (3) The party opposing an entry ought to show that the object he sets up as the rival, suits the call equally as well as that claimed by the owner of the entry. And if we are to know it, we might be disposed?? to say that the lower springs were not equal in size, and did not so well answer the description, "the Big Blue-Lick." We therefore, conclude that the upper Lick was intended by this entry, and that by the subsequent calls, "on both sides of the creek, and east and south for quantity," the locator intended to appropriate the Lick and some adjacent land. The description may be somewhat aided by the words, "on the south side thereof." It is true, these expressions are somewhat equivocal and applied to the last antecedent, Licking, might be supposed to fix the beginning, and not to describe the Lick on the south side. It is however, probable, that the last was the meaning intended. But this construction is not much relied on; for if the entry of the complainant can be attached to this entry at all it solves the doubt, by showing that the upper salt spring was intended by him. (4.) And if it be granted, that Durham's entry has sufficiently described the entry of Linn, Williams and Barbour, as a good locative call, and it shall also be granted, that the latter entry would fit the lower as well as the upper spring, or indeed should better suit the latter, it might be safely contended, that still Durham's entry should be sustained, and that the entry of Linn &c. should be applied to the upper spring, barely for the purpose of ascertaining the beginning of Durham, and that Durham must lie at that point, let the entry of Linn and others lie where it might, as to its own validity; especially when it is seen, by reading the two entries, that all the aid that Linn, Williams and Barbour can give to Durham, is merely to fix the point of one fourth of a mile below the Lick; and Durham tells us plainly that it is the upper Lick he intends, and all the aid he asks from Linn &c. is to fix his distance below it. (4) The entry of Linn., &c., might be held valid at the Lower Blue Licks, or be taken as uncertain, and yet be applied to the upper lick, to fix the beginning of Durham's entry, and support its validity there. (5.) The question, then, must rest upon the inquiry, whether the call in Durham sufficiently describes the entry he claims. Here is not an erroneous or mistaken description. The entry is in the names of Linn and Williams, and their given names are truly stated, as a discriminating matter. The only difficulty, then, which he has to encounter, is the omission of the name of Barbour. He has gone right so far as he did go; but is his omission in not being so accurate as he might have been to destroy the call? Or, in other words, does the omission of Barbour's name raise such a presumption against him as to destroy the belief that he intended this entry, and to lay upon him the proof of a negative, that there was no such entry, omitting the name of Barbour, on the stream? We conceive not. We cannot presume that Linn and Williams would locate either Lick in their own names, after or before they had located it jointly with Barbour. *4 (5) The call for the entry of William Linn & John Williams, is a sufficient call for the entry of William Linn, James Barbour and John Williams, under the circumstances of this case. There is, then, no ground of presumption that there is another entry, omitting the name of Barbour, and the one shown was the one intended, and sufficiently described to put subsequent locators on their guard. It may also be an idea of some weight that Linn's name, expressed by Durham, was the first named in the adjoining entry; and it is most natural to suppose that the surveyor in making the alphabetical index, would use that name as the one to point to the place where the entry was recorded, and thus a subsequent locator would have found it, on searching the books. This call, therefore, we deem a good one. (6.) One other defect in Durham's entry will be noticed. It calls for Linn and Williams' lower corner, and not their beginning. To this it may be replied, that his subequent calls, "down the north side of the river and binding on the same," show that he intended his beginning to be on the stream, and of course it would be the lower corner. (6) The call from the beginning, "thence down the north side of said creek, and binding on the same," shows the beginning was intended to be on the stream. Besides, we conceive it is the correct construction of Linn, Barbour and Williams, to begin at the point one fourth of a mile below, and then to run east and south, in a square, and they will include both sides of the stream as called for. This will fix their corner at a proper point. There can be no doubt how Durham's entry must be surveyed. Its directions in this respect need no construction. The court below, therefore, did right in sustaining the entry, and the decree must be affirmed with costs. Crittenden, for plaintiffs; Haggin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Creighton v. Bilbo 1 T.B.Mon. 138, 17 Ky. 138, 1824 WL 1510 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
