(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 162,  21 Ky. 162 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1522 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Winn, &c. v. Davidson and Wife. Jun. 13, 1827. *1 Military Surveys. Removed Certificates. Head-rights. Lands. APPEAL FROM THE BARREN CIRCUIT; BENJAMIN MONROE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(.5) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(.5) k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 317k151) An entry of a removed certificate, made with the surveyor, and not in the county court, is void, together with the survey made thereon. Public Lands 317 k 151(7) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(7) k. Conflicting Entries, Claims, or Patents. Most  Cited Cases The survey of a military claim which is prior in time to the relocation of the removed headright claim of another is superior in equity to the latter claim. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a controversy for lands under conflicting claims, in which the court below has decided that the defendants shall convey their title to the complainants, and the defendants have appealed. Decree of the circuit court. The complainants claim under an entry, survey and patent on military warrant, within the territory set apart for the officers and soldiers of the revolutionary war. The entry was made in 1784, the survey in 1807, and the grant issued in 1810. Complainant's claim. The defendants claim under an entry made on a removed certificate, in September 1808, a survey the same year and a patent in 1810, one day older in date than that of the complainants. Defendant's claim. The complainants can derive no aid from their entry, and there is no attempt to support it, and they must rely on their survey exclusively. Survey, and not the entry, of the military claim, relied upon. The defendant's entry was made with the surveyor on a removed certificate, and not in the county court, and of course according to previous decisions of this court it is void, and so is the survey, and the patent alone must be relied on. The question is, did the military survey vest an equity sufficient to overhaul the defendant's grant? An entry of a removed certificate made with the surveyor, and not in the county court, is void, and so of the survey. See Walker v. Monroe, 2 Marshall, 402. Without searching out from the different acts of Assembly which permitted locations of land on the territory appropriated by Virginia, to her officers and soldiers, minutely, the preference given to military claims, over those authorized by the laws of this State, there is one act, which is decisive of this controversy. It passed on the 19th of February, 1808, and of course rules the defendant's case as the act was previous to his entry or survey. The provisions on this subject will be found in 2 Dig. L. K. 773, and is to this effect: Survey of a military claim, being elder than the relocation of a removed head right claim, is the superior in equity, and the elder grant shall be released. *2 "From and after the passage of this act, no removed certificate shall be located on any survey made by virtue of any certificate heretofore granted, or any military entry, or treasury warrant, nor on any lands the Indian title to which has been extinguished since the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety three, nor on any land on which any person shall be actually settled, although such persons may not have obtained a certificate for the same." According to this provision, if the survey made by the holder of a removed certificate, was made on a previous survey, executed under the authority of a military entry, it was enough whether the military survey was made conformable to the entry or not. The certificate holder was estopped to inquire into its merits. As to him the act vested a complete equity, which he could not dispute, according to the principles recognized by this court in a controversy somewhat analogous of Taylor, &c. v. Hardin at this term,  4 Mon. 569. The court below, therefore did right in decreeing a surrender of the land and elder grant, and the decree must be affirmed, but without cost, as the appellees have failed to enter their appearance in this court. Cost not allowed, because appellee did not appear. Crittenden, for appellants. Ky.App. 1827. Winn v. Davidson 5 T.B.Mon. 162, 21 Ky. 162, 1827 WL 1522 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
