(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 123,  17 Ky. 123 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1507 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Brubaker, &c. v. Poage, &c. Oct. 15, 1824. *1 Evidence, Instructions, Tenants, Constitutional Law. APPEAL FROM THE GREENUP CIRCUIT; ADAM BEATY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 29(2) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k29 Evidence 179k29(2) k. Admissibility in general. Most Cited  Cases A written agreement between the plaintiff and a person under whom the defendants afterwards entered, which proves that such person was a tenant of the plaintiff, is admissible in forcible detainer. Landlord and Tenant 233 k 514 233 Landlord and Tenant 233I Creation and Existence of the Relation 233k509 Implied Tenancy 233k514 k. Occupancy under void lease. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k12) A lessee who enters under a void lease is nevertheless a tenant. Landlord and Tenant 233 k 1731 233 Landlord and Tenant 233VIII Reentry and Recovery of Possession by Landlord 233VIII(A) In General 233k1731 k. Statutes and regulations. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k276) Statute furnishing more speedy remedy to punish wrong of forcible detention or to enforce contract of tenant by causing him to surrender was not unconstitutional. Landlord and Tenant 233 k 1785 233 Landlord and Tenant 233VIII Reentry and Recovery of Possession by Landlord 233VIII(D) Actions for Unlawful Detainer 233k1783 Right of Action and Defenses 233k1785 k. Existence of relation of landlord and tenant.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 233k290(1)) A lessee, who enters under a lease void by the statute is a tenant, and subject to a proceeding for forcible detainer. Landlord and Tenant 233 k 1795(3) 233 Landlord and Tenant 233VIII Reentry and Recovery of Possession by Landlord 233VIII(D) Actions for Unlawful Detainer 233k1790 Actions 233k1795 Parties 233k1795(3) k. Proper defendants. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k291(5)) A widow and heirs, left in possession at the death of a tenant, who entered under the plaintiff, are liable to the action of forcible entry and detainer. Mortgages 266 k 544(1) 266 Mortgages 266X Foreclosure by Action 266X(M) Sale 266k541 Possession by Purchaser 266k544 Remedies for  Recovery 266k544(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases The act of assembly regulating writs of forcible entry and detainer applies to cases where the lease was made before the passage of the act, and the detention was afterwards. Process 313 k 31 313 Process 313I Nature, Issuance, Requisites, and Validity 313k31 k. Direction to or designation of parties. Most Cited Cases The addition of "etc."  to the name of the plaintiff in the writ does not mean other persons. Constitutional Law 92 k 2736 92 Constitutional Law 92XXII Obligation of Contract 92XXII(C) Contracts with Non-Governmental Entities 92XXII(C)1 In General 92k2736 k. Existence and extent of impairment. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 92k154(1)) Constitutional Law 92 k 2755 92 Constitutional Law 92XXII Obligation of Contract 92XXII(C) Contracts with Non-Governmental Entities 92XXII(C)2 Particular Issues and Applications 92k2755 k. Leases in general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 92k154(1)) An act furnishing a more speedy remedy to punish the wrong of a forcible detention, or to enforce the contract of the tenant by causing him to surrender, is not unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of a contract, though the contract of tenancy was made before the passage of the act. Evidence 157 k 273(3) 157 Evidence 157VIII Declarations 157VIII(A) Nature, Form, and Incidents in General 157k273 Declarations of Person in Possession or Control as to  Title or Possession 157k273(3) k. Self-serving declarations relating to  real property. Most Cited Cases In forcible detainer proceedings, declarations of tenants whom defendant succeeded, as to the manner they entered and held, made while they were in possession, but not when they entered, are not competent, in favor of defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Statement of the case. This is a warrant of forcible detainer, brought in the name of "Robert Poage, &c." against the appellants. The inquest in the country was found for Poage, and the appellants, by traverse, brought it into the circuit court, where a trial was had and a verdict found for the appellants. On motion the court granted a new trial, and at the next trial a verdict was found and a judgment rendered against the appellants, from which they have appealed. There was an exception to the opinion of the court granting the new trial, and the evidence was spread upon the record. The new trial was granted on the ground that the first verdict was contrary to law and evidence, and it is now assigned for error, that the court ought not to have granted a new trial. We have not thought it necessary to recite the evidence then given, because most, if not all of it, was given on the second trial. We shall barely observe, in reply to this assignment, that although the evidence then given may appear somewhat contradictory at the first reading, yet when it is more nicely examined, it can all be reconciled, and it made out a case which in law entitled the appellee to a verdict, and after decision of the inferior court, this court ought not to disturb the proceedings. Opinion of the circuit court setting aside the verdict for the appellants, rendered on first trial, examined and approved. On the last trial various points of law were made and decided in the court below, and a new trial moved for and overruled, and exceptions taken to all; and the same points are brought before us by the assignment of error, which now claim our attention. On this trial it appeared that a certain James Rice applied to the appellee for a lease of the premises in dispute. The appellee declined at first giving the lease, because there was a tenant on the premises, which he did not wish to disturb. Rice replied, that he would buy out the tenant; and on these conditions, the appellee agreed to let Rice have the farm, and he was to make additional improvements, and to stay on the ??and until the price paid the first tenant and these improvements, were made up in rent. Evidence on the second trial. The witnesses could not recollect that the appellee fixed any precise time for the lease, but only observed, that he wished to keep the land for his children, and none of them were yet grown, and Rice might keep it probably for five, six, seven or eight years, or more. The appellee then employed Rice to belt the trees on a portion of the adjoining land, and paid him the money for doing so. Shortly afterwards, Rice bought out the tenant then on the land, and made the stipulated belting of trees, and resided thereon until 1814, when he died. Before his death he bought a claim upon the land, and set up title thereto in his own right. After his death, his widow administered on his estate, and was on the land, and in an interview between her and the appellee, it was understood that the time?? Rice was to have the place had not quite elapsed, but would shortly expire, and she hesitated to surrende?? the position, fearing that by doing so, she might prejudice the heirs of Rice, who set up claim thereto, unde?? the title purchased by their ancestor. To settle, however, the extent of the appellee's lease, they entered into the following writing: *3 "Memorandum of an agreement verbally entered in?? to on the 20th May, 1815, between George Poage, sen?? attorney in fact for Robert Poage, of Mason county, o?? the one part, and Anne Rice, of the county of Greenup?? of the other part, that is to say: That James Rice, de??ceased, husband of Anne Rice, took possession of the?? plantation on which she now lives, under the authority of Robert Poage, and continued on the same during his life, making such improvements as were equa?? to the rents of the same; but previous to his death?? having purchased an interest in the claim of William?? Marshall, from George Brooks, which covers the said farm, and Anne Rice not knowing that she is justifi?? able in giving up the possession, lest she should injur?? the title of the heirs of James Rice, and not being wil??ing to enter into a suit about the same, it is hereby agreed that the said Anne shall have peaceable possession of the premises for four years from the said 20th May, 1815, for the improvements, &c. done o?? said premises by said J. Rice. At the expiration o?? said term, peaceable possession is to be delivered t?? said Robert Poage, reserving the benefit to the heir?? of said Rice, of the purchase made of George Brooks; and if any dispute arises between _____ ____,it is to be considered in the same light as if it had been tried on the 20th of May, 1815." Written agreement between Poage and the widow of Rice. This writing was signed by the parties and dated on the 6th of October, 1815. Before the four years mentioned in the foregoing instrument had expired, one of the appellants entered, with Mrs. Rice's approbation, and she moved away after the expiration of the term. The appellant who had so entered, leased a part of the premises to the other appellants, and since she moved away, he claims to hold the possession of the land for Rice's heirs, under the adverse claim purchased by Rice, the intestate. The appellants gave evidence conducing to show that the tenant, from whom Rice had purchased the premises, got it from a third person, and that the possession had passed through the hands of several, before it came to Rice; but whether all those persons held under Poage, the appellee, or under some other person, the proof did not show. Various motions were made to exclude evidence and instruct the jury, by the appellants, and some by the appellees, which the court decided, and the appellants excepted. (1.) The first objection taken to the evidence, was by the appellants, to exclude the instrument of writing between the appellee and Mrs. Rice, as improper evidence. (1) A written agreement between the plaintiff and a person under whom the evidence conduces to show the defendants afterwards entered, which proves such person was a tenant of the plaintiff, is competent evidence. We can see no ground for this objection. The evidence strongly conduced to show, that one of the appellants entered under her, after the execution of the writing, and the writing itself proved that she was the tenant of the appellee; of course, they would be bound to hold and surrender in the same manner and time, to which she was bound. Besides, it was competent for Mrs. Rice, as the administratrix of her husband, to sell his lease or dispose of it as a chattel interest, and to settle and adjust with the appellee, the remainder of the term to which Rice was entitled at his death, to pay for his improvements or money expended. *4 (2.) The rest of the evidence objected to, and rejected by the court, consisted of the declarations of tenants, who had preceded Rice himself, as to the manner in which they obtained and held the premises, and also of another person, who stated that he had leased to one of them. We see no error in rejecting this evidence. The persons themselves were more competent to prove how they held, than their declarations, not on oath, could be. Besides these declarations were made, not at the time of their entry, as part of the res gestae, explaining how they entered, but long afterwards, and had all the characteristics of hearsay, and were, therefore, properly rejected. (2) Declarations of tenants, whom the defendant succeeded, as to the manner they entered and held, made whilst they were in possession, but not when they entered, is not competent. The instructions to the jury asked by the appellants were sixteen in number. The court below gave seven of them and overruled the residue. As to those given, the appellants have no right to complain; the rest demand our attention. (3.) The court was asked to instruct the jury, that if they should believe that Poage had not the possession in fact, at the time of the detainer complained of, he could not recover. (3) The last section of the act concerning ??orcible entries and detainers, applies exclusively to forcible entries, and not to detainers. How Poage could have the possession in fact, and his adversary at the same time detain it from him, is a paradox involved in the instruction asked, which is left to the counsel to solve, who made it. Suffice it to say, that the position assumed, is based upon the palpable mistake of applying the last section of the act to forcible detainers, which applies exclusively to forcible entries. (4.) The next instruction asked and refused, was, that if the appellee had the sole possession, the warrants in the name of "Robert Poage, &c." could not be maintained. This was attaching a greater meaning to the "&c." than we can find in it, if it had any. It might more readily mean the title or addition to the name of Robert Poage, than other persons concerned with him in interest. (4) The addition of "&c." to the name of the plaintiff in the writ, does not mean other persons. (5.) The next instruction asked, was, that if the jury should believe that the tenants were tenants at will to the appellee, he could not recover, unless he had given six months' notice to quit, or should have shown, by way of avoiding the necessity of notice, that the tenants had refused to restore the possession. It is a sufficient answer to this, that the evidence did not conduce to prove a tenancy at will in the appellants, or any case suited to the instruction. The same may be said of the tenth and twelfth instructions, and they need not be recited. (5) The refusal of instructions predicated on facts which the evidence did not conduce to prove, is no ground of complaint. *5 (6.) The fifth in number, is to this effect: That if, from the evidence, the jury should believe that the original contract between Poage and James Rice, was for a term of more than five years, and that the same was by parol, said contract was void, and no tenancy was created, such as to authorize this proceeding, although Rice took the possession under the contract. (6) A lessee who enters under a lease void by the statute, is a tenant, and subject to the proceeding under the statute for forcible detainer. This instruction is framed with an eye to the first section of an act of 1796, (1 Dig. L. K. 312), which provides, "that no estate of inheritance or for a term of more than five years, shall be conveyed from one to another, unless the conveyance be declared by writing, sealed and delivered." It is somewhat doubtful whether the original lease by parol, to Rice, the intestate, by Poage, was or was not for more than five years, and if it was, whether it would be good for five years; or, indeed, whether, as the term was indefinite, it ought to be construed any thing else than a tenancy from year to year. But whichsoever of these might be its terms or operation, we are satisfied that if Rice, the intestate, entered under it, it created a tenancy, on which the writ of forcible detainer might operate, for a holding over, as decided by this court in the case of Haynes v. Adams, 3 Marsh. 149; and such would be its operation, however void the lease might be, between the lessor and lessee, with regard to the obligation of the former to let the latter remain in possession. Such we take to be the application and operation of the act which authorizes these proceedings, and the court did not err in overruling this application. (7.) In the 6th instruction, the court was asked to in form the jury, that if Mrs. Anne Rice did not obtain the possession from Poage, he can not recover against her rights, or the rights of the tenants under her, the written agreement she had entered into with Poage, notwithstanding. (7) It is not sufficient for the plaintiff to show that the defendant or his predecessor leased the premises from him; it must appear that the possession was acquired from the plaintiff--Ar. It is true, this court has decided, that under the 16th section of the act of assembly regulating writs of forcible entry and detainer, it is not only necessary that there should be a taking of a lease and holding over, but also, an entry or acquisition of the possession, under and from the lessor, to support this writ; so that holding beyond the terms of a lease, when possession was not taken from the landlord, but acquired from some other quarter, was not a forcible detainer, intended by the act. (8.) But it never was intended in these decisions, that cases where the heir or widow should be left in possession, at the death of the tenant, or where one tenant should purchase and receive from another, should be excluded from the operation of the act; for in all such cases, the last tenant or sub-tenant, must be held as entering, though not immediately, under the landlord, and as subject to all the remedies existing against the first tenant; otherwise, a death or a sale would defeat the remedy given, which could not have been intended by the legislature. This instruction was, therefore, properly refused. *6 (8) Widow and heirs left in possession at the death of a tenant, who entered under the plaintiff, are held to have entered mediately under him, and subject to this proceeding. (9.) The eighth instruction not given, was to this effect: That if the jury should believe that the traversers never refused, as tenants, to give up possession, after their term expired, the appellee could not recover. (9) A defendant who has attempted to hold under another claim, or insisted in his defense that he had not entered under the plaintiff, must be taken to have refused to surrender and therefore can not complain that the court refused to instruct the jury, that the plaintiff could not recover unless they believed he had refused. The proposition contained in this instruction, is sound and unexceptionable in point of law; but still we are disposed to justify the inferior court in refusing to give it as an instruction. The appellants had attempted to hold under an adverse claim, and this has been considered by this court, as sufficient evidence of a refusal, or equivalent thereto. They had made this appear by their own evidence, and had also given evidence conducing to show that they had never entered under the appellee. It was, therefore, so preposterous for them to ask the court to give even a sound instruction, which?? under some circumstances, might have been availing, but which, under their own proof, could have been of no avail, and even contrary to their whole defense, that the court could not have erred in being silent when such application was made. (10.) The last instruction which we shall notice, is the ninth in number. The court was asked to tell the jury, that if the lease made by Poage, was previous to the passage of the act which gave birth to this remedy, the proceedings under it were irregular, and the case must be redressed by the previous law. It has been decided by this court, that the act was prospective in its terms, and did not embrace cases of forcible detainer, which existed prior to its passage; but it is at the same time admitted, that it embraces all cases subsequent, and it is wholly immaterial whether the lease was made before or afterwards, so that the holding over did not happen until after the act took effect. See  Reed v. Rawson, 2 Litt. Rep. 191. (10) The act does not embrace cases of forcible detainer before its passage; but does apply to cases where the lease was made before the act and detention after - wards. (11.) The act is broad enough in its terms to embrace tenancies existing at its passage, and it is certainly competent for the legislature to furnish a more speedy ??remedy to punish the wrong of a forcible detention, or ?? to enforce the contract of the tenant by causing him to ??surrender, although he had made the contract before ??he act. There is no restraint upon such a salutary ex??ercise of legislative power. The court, then, did right ??n refusing this instruction also. (11) It is competent for the Legislature to furnish a more speedy remedy to punish the wrong of a forcible detainer, though the contract of tenancy be made before the act. *7 As to the instructions asked by the appellee and ??granted by the court, they are either the converse of ??ome of the instructions refused to the appellant, or in ??erfect accordance with principles heretofore settled ??y this court, and, therefore, need not be recited. As to the refusal of the court below to grant a new ??rial, we shall only add, that the evidence appears to ??ave been fairly submitted to the jury, on instructions ??iven by the court in favor of the appellants, some of ??hich were as much, if not more in their favor, than ??e law allows, and the finding is against them on the ??cts alone. If they were more doubtful, we should not ??e disposed to interfere; but as they appear to us, our ??inion concurs with the court below in sustaining the ??rdict. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Triplett and Monroe, for appellants; Bibb, for appel??. Ky.App. 1824. Brubaker v. Poage 1 T.B.Mon. 123, 17 Ky. 123, 1824 WL 1507 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
