(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 23,  17 Ky. 23 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1456 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ford v. Hale. Oct. 6, 1824. *1 Evidence, Witness, Constitutional Law, Assignments. ERROR TO THE FLOYD CIRCUIT; ELI SHORTRIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Bonds 58 k 76 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k76 k. Statutory Provisions. Most Cited Cases The statute of assignments is retrospective as to the instruments made assignable, but prospective as to the assignments authorized by it. Constitutional Law 92 k 2663 92 Constitutional Law 92XXII Obligation of Contract 92XXII(A) In General 92k2663 k. Application to State and Local Laws and  Regulations. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 92k154(1)) Constitutional Law 92 k 2671 92 Constitutional Law 92XXII Obligation of Contract 92XXII(A) In General 92k2671 k. Existence and Extent of Impairment. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 92k154(1)) A statute making obligations previously executed assignable is not unconstitutional, as impairing the obligation of such contracts, since it does not alter the nature of such obligations, or in any manner vary or affect their terms. Evidence 157 k 375 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k375 k. Handwriting. Most Cited  Cases Where the subscribing witnesses are dead, and the only witnesses to their handwriting are out of the state, secondary evidence is admissible to prove the handwriting. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. On the trial of the issue of non est factum, in an action of covenant brought by the assignee of a writing under seal, the plaintiff made oath that the subscribing witness was dead, and that he knew of no person in this state, who could prove the hand writing of the witness, the obligor having made his mark; but that in Tennessee he knew persons who could prove the hand writing. He then executed and delivered a release in court to the assignor and obligee of the writing, and tendered him as a witness; but the court rejected his testimony, and the plaintiff excepted, and a judgment having been rendered against him, to reverse it he has prosecuted this writ of error. (1.) We can not perceive the principle on which this witness was excluded. If it be on the ground that it was not the best evidence which the nature of the case admitted of, it has been repeatedly decided by this court, that a person litigant is not bound to travel without the state to collect testimony, before he shall be permitted to resort to an inferior grade of evidence. He may go, it is true, with a dedimus, to acquire proof which he can not do without; but he is not bound to go, if he has inferior evidence sufficiently persuasive and satisfactory, but may show the best evidence to be without the state, and then use the next best existing within the control of the court. It can not be on the ground of interest remaining in the witness after the execution of the release; for the principle that a release restores the competence of a witness, is too well settled to need authorities to support it. *2 (1) Where it is shown by affidavit of a party, that the subscribing witnesses are dead, and that the only witnesses to their hand writing are out of the state, another is competent to prove it. (2.) It can not be on the ground that the witness offered had assigned the paper. It is true, that cases may be found where the assignor or endorser has not been permitted, by his oath, to invalidate the paper which he had endorsed. Without enquiring now into the soundness of those decisions, they are based on the ground of policy, that a witness should not be permitted to destroy a paper, to which he had given currency to his endorsement. Here the witness was not offered to destroy, but support the instrument which he had assigned. He ought to have been admitted as competent, leaving his credit with the jury. (2) Assignor of an obligation is, when released, competent to prove its execution. (3.) A point is suggested against the redress demanded by the writ of error. The bond declared on bears date in February, 1796, and was assigned to the plaintiff in 1818, and it may be urged, that as the obligation or covenant was executed before the existence of our act of assembly regulating assignments, and is for property in the first instance, and eventually for money, it could not be passed by assignment, so as to give the assignee the right of suit in his own name, and therefore, as the plaintiff, by his own showing, has no cause of action, he can not be injured by any decision given by the court below. (3) Statute making obligations previously executed, assignable, is constitutional. It has been often decided, that on a bond or writing stipulating the payment of commodities or property, assigned before our act which makes such writings negotiable, the assignee could not support an action in his own name. No decision, however, has determined that such writing, executed before the statute, could not be assigned afterwards. It is evident, that an assignment on an instrument then not assignable, could not vest the legal estate, and the passage of the act afterwards, was not intended to give a legal title, where none existed before. But whether the legislature could prospectively communiate a negotiable quality to an instrument before not negotiable, is a different question. We perceive no objection to such exercise of legislative power. It does not alter the nature of the instrument in any shape, or in any manner vary or affect the terms of the contract. The obligor was bound for just as much afterwards as before, and no more, and not the least prejudice to the rights of either party, is perceived by such an act. (4.) The question, then, must narrow itself to the inquiry, has the legislature done so? The expressions are: "All bonds, bills and promissory notes, whether for money or property, shall be assignable." The word all, is comprehensive enough to embrace those executed before, as well as those after its passage; and there is no other restriction in the act, except what arises from the expressions, "whether for money or property." This limitation existing in the act, shows that other exceptions are not to be made. The words are prospective as to the assignment, and not as to the execution of the writings made assignable. We, therefore, conclude that this writing, which existed at the passage of the act, was made assignable, as well as others executed afterwards, and that the plaintiff, by his own showing, has made out a good title, and is authorized to support a writ of error, as well as the action in his own name. *3 (4) The statute of assignments is retrospective as to the obligations made transferable; prospective as to the assignments authorized by it. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed, the verdict be set aside with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1824. Ford v. Hale 1 T.B.Mon. 23, 17 Ky. 23, 1824 WL 1456 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
