(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 521,  21 Ky. 521 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1601 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Vance's Adm'r v. Vance's Distributees. Oct. 9, 1827. *1 Evidence. Answers. Agents. Interest. Executors. Distributees. APPEAL FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 313 162 Executors and Administrators 162VII Distribution of Estate 162k313 k. Interest on Legacies and Distributive Shares. Most Cited Cases An administrator is not liable to distributees for interest on money which he has not used, until the tender of a bond or indemnity. Equity 150 k 340 150 Equity 150V Evidence 150k338 Answer as Evidence 150k340 k. Responsiveness. Most Cited Cases Where there is an allegation of a negative, an averment to the contrary by defendant must be proved as affirmative matter in avoidance. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Case stated. This is a bill filed by the distributees, against the administrators, of Elizabeth Vance, deceased, for a settlement and distribution of her estate, by the administrator, who was one of her sons. The bill also claims an account and distribution of the estate of Patrick Vance, the father, and husband of said Elizabeth, and alleges that the defendant had taken possession of, or used and converted the estate of the father to his own use, but had never administered thereon. We dismiss at once, the consideration of this part of the bill, as the court below, allowed no account thereof, and rightfully; because an executor of his own wrong, may be liable to the rightful personal representative, but never to the distributee or legatee. The claim of distributees is somewhat contingent, and is postponed to the claims of creditors, and must come to them by the assent of the executor or administrator, which assent the wrongful executor can never give. If courts of equity would permit an executor to constitute himself such, of his own wrong, and to assent to legacies and distribution, the rights of creditors against the estate of deceased persons, would soon become precarious and nominal only. The proper mode of reaching such is by administering legally. Distributees can not recover from one as executor de son tort; the creditors only have the right thus to charge the intermeddler. Nor need we go into the accounts of the estate of Elizabeth Vance minutely; all except one item, appears to have been rightly settled, according to the evidence, and to involve no question, new or difficult. Besides, long before this suit was commenced the estate was settled by the county court, and that settlement is unimpeached as far as it goes; and according to repeated decisions of this court it must be held as prima facie evidence in favor of the administrator. Settlement with the county court prima facie evidence for the administrator. The item which need be noticed, is one not embraced either in the inventory, or settlement of the estate made with the county court, and which the complainants contend, ought to have been included, but was improperly or fraudulently omitted by the administrator. The court below, allowed this item, with interest thereon, and the propriety of its allowance, or if it is to be allowed, the allowing interest thereon, is made the main question before us. *2 Interest. That item arose in the following way: The deceased had an interest in a tract of land in Virginia, and during her life, she constituted her son, the present defendant, her agent to sell it. He effected the sale at $1,500, the one-half of which he received and brought home, some time before her death. The other half he did not receive till after her death, and rendered an account thereof, in his settlement with the county court, and professes a readiness to pay the balance then found against him. The complainants allege that he ought to account for the first half also, and that he never did so during her life, and that it became a debt due from him to the estate of the decedent. The charge in the bill is to the following effect, after charging that he sold the land during her life: "He received $750 of the price in her life time, which he never paid to her, but appropriated to his own use." Allegations of the bill and defendant's answer. The answer responds thus: "He admits that he did, previous to the death of said Elizabeth, sell by her authority, her interest in the above mentioned tract of land in Virginia, for the sum of $1,500, and received $750 of the money, all of which last mentioned sum, he paid over to her, and to her children, by her directions, some years previous to her death." On this subject, there is proof by one witness, that he saw the defendant with a stud horse, which he stated he had gotten in Virginia, for money due to his mother. But this witness is very indecisive in his recollection, and can not be certain whether he got the horse for money due to himself or his mother, and therefore, the matter is left again at large. Some two or three other witnesses depose, that they heard the intestate say in her lifetime, that her son had brought home the $750 from Virginia, all in bank notes, except $60, and that she expressed dissatisfaction with him for having brought bank paper, and stated that she refused to receive it, and only took the $60 specie. The evidence stated. These declarations of the decedent are objected to, as incompetent to charge her administrator with this debt, and we can not doubt their incompetence. If while living, she had brought on a controversy with him, to recover this sum, and her declarations would have been entirely inadmissible, to prove either the debt, or its non-payment, they can not be less so after her death, in a contest between him and her representatives, to charge him with the same demand. Setting this testimony aside, the question must rest exclusively on his answer, which is in response to the charges of the bill. His answer, which admits that he got the money, is evidence against him; and must the allegation, that he accounted for it, be taken as evidence in his favor, that he did account, when the bill charges him with not accounting? When the bill charges affirmative matter, and the answer has the negative, so strong is that denial, that two witnesses, where the matter rests in parol, or one positive witness, with corroborating circumstances, are necessary to overturn the answer. But where the bill charges negative matter, and the answer asserts the affirmative, the question is, what weight is to be attached to the answer? *3 Where the bill alleges matter which would be known to defendant, and he denies, the proof must be by two witnesses, or one with corroborating circumstances.-- But-- In bills of discovery, such affirmative matter, in an answer, may often be taken as true. But in other cases, such allegations can not. The rule, that he who holds the affirmative must prove it, is based on reason not easily overturned, and exists in chancery as well as at law. Payment is matter of avoidance, and at law is said to be a plea in bar. It admits the affirmative matter of the opposite party, and sets up another affirmative, which avoids responsibility; and if such affirmative allegations were to be taken as true in an answer, even though made in response to a bill, the consequences would produce the greatest absurdities in many instances, and often impose upon the opposite party an impossibility or loss of right. This is a case where the chancellor has original and exclusive jurisdiction, and where the complainants come into equity not of choice, nor with a design of attaching confidence to the testimony of the defendant, and with an intention of risquing the cause on his answer; and the oath of the defendant is rather used for the purpose of forming a correct issue, than for the purpose of deciding the contest, and the defendant must, therefore, prove the affirmative which he has alleged. Where the allegation is of a negative, as that defendant having received money had not accounted and paid it over, the averment of the defendant that he had paid the money over must be proved as affirmative matter in avoidance. The money here was received under circumstances of trust and confidence, and when it might be expected that it would be accounted for, on the return of the defendant from Virginia. In such case, slight proof of payment might be deemed sufficient, as such proof would concur with what might be expected. But there is no such proof here, and if this demand must be presumed to be paid, the presumption must be indulged from the agency alone. It is equally as probable, that after the defendant's return, he would be permitted to keep and use the money, as that he accounted for it. He and his mother resided together. He provided for her, as he had done for both his parents during the life of his father, and transacted her business, and she would as likely have suffered him to retain it, as to have compelled him to account for it. He can not now be excused from the payment without some proof. But while he is compelled to account, it will be right that he be allowed a reasonable compensation for his trouble, in transacting this business abroad, assessed by a commissioner or commissioners. Compensation allowed an agent out of the money he had collected. And we can not see the propriety of charging him with interest thereon, as is done in the court below. During the life of the mother, he can not be held more than a depositary of this sum, under circumstances not implying a charge of interest. *4 Interest not recoverable of a depository. Since her death he must hold it as her administrator, and as such, may now be compelled to account for it, perhaps from a defect of proof alone. For the balance found against him by the county court he professes himself ready to account. The complainants never made a demand, nor did they tender him a bond to refund their proportions if debts should appear, or enquire whether such bond was demanded by him; nor is there any satisfactory proof of his converting any of the money to his own purposes, or of his receiving interest thereon from others. Under such circumstances, the court below ought not to have allowed interest. Where the administrator had not used the money he is not liable for interest to distributees till the bond of indemnity is tendered. It is also in proof, that he has paid divers sums to some of the distributees. The portion of each in the whole, ought to be ascertained. The payments to each ought to be deducted from his respective share, and the balance, if any, ought to be decreed to each, severally. Decree for the portion of each distributee to be paid them respectively. And if he shall require a bond with security from each, to refund in case of debts appearing hereafter, the court ought to suspend execution of the decree as to each distributee, until such bond, with security approved by the court, shall be given. Bonds to be given administrator before the decree shall be executed. The decree must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded to the court below, with directions that such proceedings may be had, and decree entered as may not be inconsistent with the opinion of this court. Mandate. Dana, for appellant. Ky.App. 1827. Vance's Adm'r v. Vance's Distributees 5 T.B.Mon. 521, 21 Ky. 521, 1827 WL 1601 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
