(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 266,  10 Ky. 266 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1056 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Aspinwall v. William Chase et al. Apr. 9, 1821. *1 ON APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 94 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k93 Necessary or Indispensable Parties 150k94 k. Persons Indispensable to Complete and  Final Determination. Most Cited Cases Under the act directing the method of proceedings in courts of equity against absent defendants, etc., a citizen of a sister state may bring suit against defendants, some of whom are not within this state, but are alleged to be indebted to complainant, and the others are within the state and are alleged to be indebted to, or to have in their hands property of, the absent defendants;  and it is immaterial whether the absent defendants ever were citizens or residents of this state or not. THE CHIEF JUSTICE DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Mills. This was a suit in chancery, brought by the appellant, a citizen of New York, against the appellees, some of whom are not within this country, and are alleged to be indebted to the appellant, and the others are within this country, and are alleged to be indebted to, or to have in their hands effects of the absent defendants. On filing the bill, the appellant, under the "act directing the method of proceeding in courts of equity against absent defendants, &c."  1 Littell, 592, obtained an injunction, restraining the defendants in this country, from paying, conveying away, or secreting the debts they owed to, or the effects they had in their hands of, the absent defendants. Some of the defendants in this country answered the bill, and admitted the material allegations as to them, and against the other defendants in this country, as well as the absent defendants, the bill was taken for confessed. The provisions of the law authorizing proceedings in chancery against absent defendants, should be extended as well to citizens of a sister state as to those of Kentucky,--nor does the fact of the absent defendant having once been a citizen of Kentucky alter the case. On a final hearing, the circuit court being of opinion that the act under which these proceedings were had, was designed for the benefit of residents of this state only, and does not authorize such exparte proceeding in favor of strangers, against those who had never been residents of the state, and that the affidavit on which the injunction was granted was wholly insufficient, decided, the injunction to be dissolved, and the bill to be dismissed; and from that decree, this appeal is prosecuted. We cannot concur with the circuit court in the construction of the act of assembly, under which these proceedings were had. There is no expression in the act, confining the benefit of its provisions to the citizens or residents of this state; on the contrary, the expressions are general, and apply in terms to "any suit depending or commenced in any court of chancery in this commonwealth, against any defendant or defendants who may be out of the country, and others within the same" without regard to the residence or citizenship of the complainant. *2 Where the language of a statute is thus explicit, there can be no room for exposition. The rule in such case is ita lex scripta est. But were the language of the act ambiguous or doubtful, we would not think ourselves at liberty so to construe it, as to exclude from the benefit of its provisions the citizens of the other states of the union. Such a construction would be, obviously, opposed to the letter, as well as the spirit of that clause in the constitution of the United States, which provides, that "the citizens of each state shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several states," and consequently, would be inadmissible. Nor is it material, whether the absent defendants ever were citizens or residents of this state or not. In either case, the words of the act are sufficiently broad to embrace the case, and they, no doubt, truly express the intention of the legislature. The preamble of the act of Virginia, of 1744, which was the first that was passed upon the subject shows that it was the difficulty of collecting debts due from persons residing without that country, which produced the enactment of the law, and it is believed to have been the uniform practice ever since, under the various re-enactments of the law which have taken place, both in Virginia and this country, to proceed against absent debtors, without regard to the circumstance, whether they had been residents of the state or not. With respect to the affidavit upon which the order for an injunction was obtained, we will barely remark, that it was functus officio, and whether it was sufficient or not, to have authorized the order, granting the injunction, was wholly immaterial on the final hearing of the cause. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, that a decree may be entered for the complainant, and such further orders and proceedings had, as may accord with the act of assembly in such cases provided. T. F. Tolbott for appellant. Ky.App. 1821. Aspinwall v. Chase 3 A.K.Marsh. 266, 10 Ky. 266, 1821 WL 1056 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
