(Cite as: 5 Litt. 76,  15 Ky. 76 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1381 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Pope, &c. v. Lemaster, &c. Lemaster, &c. v. Pope, &c. Apr. 13, 1824. *1 FROM THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. HENRY DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 143 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k143 k. Set-off of improvements or taxes against damages or mesne profits. Most Cited Cases Purchasers of land, with notice of the pendency of a suit for the land, who receive conveyances under a decree afterwards reversed, are not embraced by the occupying claimant law, but must account to the owner for rents and profits, waste, and injury to the land caused by improper cultivation, and are entitled to an allowance for such lasting and valuable improvements as they may leave on the land, to be valued according to their condition at the time of the assessment, which is to be allowed so far only as it will extinguish the countercharges for rents, etc.;   if the rents, etc., exceed the value of the improvements, the owner to have a decree for the residue, but, if they fall short, the purchasers not to be allowed for the excess. Infants 211 k 1310(2) 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(B) Course of Proceedings 211k1305 Judgment or Order 211k1310 Opening and  Vacating 211k1310(2) k. After attaining majority. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k111) Where a party appears within the time allowed after his arrival at the age of 21 years, and shows that a decree rendered against him during his infancy is erroneous, the chancellor should place the parties in statu quo as nearly as can be done, and, if necessary, change property and possession. SHARP for Pope; CRITTENDEN for Lemaster & als. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. In the year 1780, John Philips furnished Peter Sturgus with two hundred and twenty pounds, Virginia currency, for the purpose of procuring for said Philips, a land warrant. This money, which was equal to the price of 600 acres, at the land-office of Virginia, was appropriated by Sturgus to the payment of so much of the price of his own pre-emption warrant of 1,000 acres. For the purpose of settling between them this misappropriation of the money of Philips, the parties entered into the following agreement, which was sealed and delivered by Sturgus: In a decree against infants, day should be allowed them after they arrive at full age, to show cause against it; and if they appear and show that a decree ought not to have been rendered, the court ought to place the parties in statu quo, as nearly as can be conveniently done. "Article of agreement made and confirmed this 17th July, 1780, between Peter Sturgus of the one part, and John Philips of the other part, both of the county of Kentucky, witnesseth: That the above named Peter Sturgus, for and in consideration of the sum of two hundred and twenty pounds, current money of Virginia, to me in hand paid, by John Philips, the receipt whereof, I do hereby acknowledge myself fully satisfied, for one land warrant containing 600 acres of land, which the above named John Philips is lawfully entitled to, by sending two hundred and twenty pounds, money aforeseid, to the land office, and the said money was laid out for to pay a part towards the above named Sturgus' pre-emption warrant; for which money, I do, by these presents, bind myself, my heirs, executors, administrators and assigns to make good unto the above named John Philips, his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, the just and full quantity of three hundred acres of land, a part of my pre-emption, and three hundred acres of treasury warrant, except the above said Sturgus can lay the land warrant on land of the equal quality to his pre-emption, then the said Philips is to take the land wheresoever the said Sturgus lays the warrant, within the same distance that his land lays from the falls of Ohio." *2 The chancellor ought then to render such decree as should have been rendered in the first instance, and even, if necessary, to change the property and possession. Sturgus was slain by the Indians in the fall of the year 1781, leaving no child alive; but his wife, then encient was delivered of a daughter about three or four months after his death, named Margaret. During the minority of this child, Philips filed his bill on this writing, claiming 300 acres to be conveyed to him out of Sturgus' pre-emption, and asserting no further claim for any land on treasury warrant, or for compensation for the 300 acres, part of the pre-emption. He obtained a decree for a conveyance, and here the cause ended. It does not appear that Sturgus had any lands besides his pre-emption, located in his own name, at his death; but he claimed 500 acres of a larger tract, entered on treasury warrant, in the name of Peachy Purdy, as locator, not quite as distant from the falls of the Ohio, as Sturgus' pre-emption. For this 500 acres, a bill was filed and a decree for a conveyance obtained in favor of his infant daughter, in the late quarter session court of Jefferson county; but no conveyance was executed in pursuance of the decree. The daughter of Sturgus intermarried with John Lemaster, and died at the close of the year 1798, before she was twenty-one years old, at the birth of her first child James Lemaster, who was left as the grandson and sole heir of Peter Sturgus. On the 20th of December, 1799, John Philips assigned to Worden Pope, without recourse to him, all the claim which he held by the aforesaid writing, against the heir of Sturgus, for 300 acres of land on treasury warrant. In the year 1800, Pope filed this bill in the Shelby quarter session court, against the infant grandson of Sturgus, James Lemaster, claiming of him 300 acres more of land on treasury warrant, alleging that none but the three hundred acres had been conveyed out of the pre-emption, and that Sturgus left no land to satisfy the 300 acres of treasury warrant, which he claimed, except the 500 acres for location, which had been decreed to his daughter out of Purdy's survey, which he alleged was as near the falls of Ohio as the pre-emption of Sturgus, and answered for the purpose of satisfying the contract. He alleged that this 500 acres had not been conveyed pursuant to the decree in favor of the mother of James Lemaster; and he made Philips and Peachy Purdy, then a widow by the name of Peachy Wills, defendants, and prayed that she might be compelled to convey to him 300 acres out of the 500 acres, instead of James Lemaster, and that the other defendant should be barred of any claim thereto. Philips answered, admitting his assignment. Peachy Wills answered, admitting the right of Sturgus' heir to the 500 acres, and professing a willingness to convey it, to any person to whom the court should decree it. James Lemaster answered, by his father, as guardian, placing the burden of proof on Pope. A few depositions were taken by Pope, which proved that the land contained in Sturgus' pre-emption, as well as the 500 acres, part of Purdy's survey on treasury warrant, were both second rate land. In the year 1807, before the termination of this suit, John Lemaster, the father and special guardian of James, died, and his death was suggested on record, and another guardian appointed. In the year 1815, the cause was heard, and Pope obtained a decree that Peachy Wills should convey to him 300 acres out of the 500, taken from the northern part thereof, and that James Lemaster and Philips should be barred of their equity thereto, reserving to James Lemaster twelve months after he should arrive at full age, to show cause, if any he could, against this decree. A conveyance by commissioners, in discharge of this decree, was accordingly executed. *3 The chancellor will not modify a contract; but, in his sound discretion, enforce it, as the parties have made it. If that can not be done, the parties are generally turned round to another mode of redress. An agreement for the conveyance of land, containing ambiguous expressions, construed. Proof of witnesses, that the writing was not written as intended, together with the staleness of the claim, deemed sufficient to induce the chancellor to refuse compensation for a failure to perform the contract. Purchasers of land with notice of a controversy pending, and receiving a conveyance under a decree which is erroneous, are not such bona fide occupants as will bring them within the occupying claimant law; the case must be decided according to the principles of equity. The owner of the land is entitled to an account for the rents, profits, waste, damage and injury done the land by improper cultivation or use, and the occupant to an allowance for such lasting and valuable improvements as he may have made upon the land, to be assessed according to their condition at the time of assessment, and if at that time they are deteriorated, their price is to be fixed accordingly. Within the twelve months allowed to James Lemaster to question this decree by its terms, he came into court and filed his answer, contending that the 300 acres was the most valuable part of the 500, and was far superior in quality to Sturgus' pre-emption, and, therefore, could not be made use of to fulfil the contract; secondly, that the 500 acres for which his mother had obtained the decree against Peachy Wills, could not come within the meaning of the writing, as that was to be land to be thereafter located for Philips, if he was entitled to any; and lastly, that the writing, by its fair construction, could not entitle Philips or his assignee to more than 300 acres of the pre-emption, and that Philips could only claim 600, if located for him on treasury warrant, instead of the three hundred acres of pre-emption land; that Philips had accordingly so treated the writing by filing his bill for, and obtaining the 300 acres on which decree he relied as a bar to further claim; and he also urged, that the parties had ever afterwards so understood the instrument. He charged that Pope had conveyed the land to others, whom he made defendants to his answer, as a cross bill, and prayed that they might disclose their title, and how they held possession. These defendants answered, admitting title and possession under Pope, and setting forth their conveyances, and not contesting notice. But the estimate of improvements is to be allowed only so far as will extinguish the counter charges for rents, waste, etc. On a final hearing, the court below decreed that so much of the former decree, as barred James Lemaster of his equity in the 300 acres, should be annulled and set aside; that the tenants or claimants under Pope, should surrender possession and convey the title of the land to Lemaster; and that each of the occupants were entitled to compensation for their improvements made on the land, under the provisions of the act concerning occupying claimants of land, and that the occupants should account for rents during their occupancy, to be discounted against these improvements. From this decree, each party appealed. James Lemaster assigns as error, that the court erred in allowing any compensation for improvements, and applying thereto the provisions of the occupying claimant laws; and the opposite party assigns as error, that the court erred, if Lemaster is entitled to the land, in allowing any rents to him against the occupants, and further contests the merits of the decree, in toto, and contends that the court erred in disturbing the provisions of the first decree, and that Pope and those claiming under him, are entitled to the land. *4 If the rents, waste, etc., shall exceed the value of improvements, the owner to have a decree for the balance; but if they fall short, the occupant is not to be allowed a decree for the excess. We can not hesitate in saying, that the court below had a right, in law, to render this decree in favor of the infants, if, by the former decree, his rights were prejudiced. It is well settled, that in decrees against infants, day ought to be allowed them after they come of age, and the design of this, is, that they shall not be prejudiced until that day expires. It then necessarily follows, that if they show that the first decree ought not to have been rendered, the court ought to place the parties in statu quo, as nearly as can conveniently be done, by such changes of property and circumstances, as may be necessary to accomplish this object, without too manifest injustice to the opposite party. In other words the court ought then to render such decree as should have been rendered in the first instance; and if, to do this, it shall be found necessary to change property and possession, it ought generally to be done, although the inconvenience to others may be considerable. This results from the favor shown to infants in a court of equity. They are rightly declared incompetent to act the part of those of mature age; of course, their rights are preserved until their capacity is acknowledged by law. Lemaster has satisfactorily shown that the 500 acres, or rather that part of it which was demarked for Worden Pope, are of superior quality in soil, to the lands of Sturgus' pre-emption, without regard to adventitious circumstances. Admitting then, that the contract stipulates to give 300 acres of land on treasury warrant, in addition to 300 acres out of the pre-emption, the inquiry arises as to the consequence of this proof on the former decree. The bill is brought for the purpose of specifically enforcing the contract, not out of a specified tract, but out of lands belonging to the heirs of Sturgus. We need not enquire whether a contract so general in its terms as this, would, or would not be ever specifically enforced. It barely engages 300 acres of land, equal to such a quality, to be thereafter located; for admitting that the chancellor would enforce it, he never would enforce it upon a subject which would give the party complaining more than he was entitled to, and take from the defendant more than he had stipulated to give, but in such case, he would leave the party to his legal redress. It is clear, that if the land was of a quality inferior to the pre-emption, Philips could not have been compelled to take it, and as it is superior, the heir of Sturgus ought not to be compelled to give it; for the chancellor will not modify the contract, but, in his sound discretion, enforce it, as the parties have made it. If this can not be done, the parties are generally turned round to another mode of redress. As the chancellor, in this instance, by the first decree, gave the party complainant more than the contract demanded, his decree was erroneous and ought to have been rectified. We attach no importance to the circumstance that this claim was located in the name of Purdy; for as Sturgus was entitled to it equitably, we see no reason why it might not have fulfilled his contract, as there was no stipulation in whose name the warrant was to be located. *5 But as the possession under the former decree is with Pope and his assigns, it is insisted that it is right to compel Lemaster to do justice, by rendering compensation for the 300 acres, before he recovers it. This involves the construction of the writing, as it is insisted on one side that it stipulates that 300 acres more of treasury warrant land should be given, and on the other that no more than 300 acres of the pre-emption discharged the whole of it. It might, indeed, be supposed reasonable that 300 acres of pre-emption land located, was equal to a warrant of six hundred. But from the face of the writing, we can not bring it to this; for there is a positive stipulation to give 300 acres of the pre-emption, "and 300 acres of treasury warrant." These expressions can not be construed to give only 300 acres of pre-emption or treasury warrant lands, unless we exchange the conjunction and for or, which we are not at liberty to do. We, therefore, conclude, that both were intended, and refer the subsequent awkward and almost unintelligible expressions, to the place where the land was located and its quality, and not as limiting the stipulation intended. But after the meaning of the writing itself is thus ascertained, it does not conclusively follow, that Philips or his vendees are entitled to compensation for the 300 acres of land. It is true, there is not positive proof that the writing was thus written to include the 300 acres of treasury warrant, as well as the same quantity of pre-emption warrant, by fraud or mistake; but there is proof that the contract between the parties was otherwise, and that by the subscribing witness. In this way, Philips treated the instrument when he filed his first bill thereon and obtained the decree, and never suggested any further claim or demand. It is true, that his ignorance that Sturgus possessed any other land, and the want of personal estate, is relied on as his apology for this; but he does not make this apology in his bill, or suggest any want of a fund out of which the residue of the claim could be satisfied. This want in the bill, if it does not bar the claim, is, at least, strong presumptive evidence, that it did not exist. Add to this, that nearly, if not entirely, twenty years had ??elapsed from the date of the writing, before the claim is resuscitated and asserted in the hands of Pope. These circumstances are very persuasive evidence, either that the writing was not written as intended, or that the claim was either satisfied or abandoned, and, we conceive, are sufficient to induce a court of equity to refuse compensation for the 300 acres of treasury warrant. The only remaining questions arise out of the account for rents, profits and improvements directed to be taken by the court below. We can not concur with that court, in applying the provisions of the act of 1820. It is true, that act did embrace cases where the parties claim under the same title; still, the bona fide and innocent occupant alone, is to be entitled to the benefits of the act. Such these occupants can not be. They purchased the lands of Pope pending this suit, before the first decree, by a conditional bargain, subject to the event of his recovering the land. After the decree was rendered, they accepted his conveyance and hold under that decree, subject to and acquainted with its defects and dangers, and the rights reserved to Lemaster to question it. They can not, therefore, be those occupants described in the act, and their case must be decided according to the principles of equity. Lemaster, we conceive, is entitled to an account for the rents, profits, waste, damage and injury done to the land by improper cultivation or use, and the occupants are entitled to an allowance for such lasting and valuable improvements as they may leave upon the land, to be assessed according to their condition at the time of assessment; that is, if, at that time, they are deteriorated, their price is to be fixed accordingly. But this estimate of improvements, is to be allowed so far, and so far only, as will extinguish the counter charges for rents, waste, &c. and if the rents, waste, &c. herein directed to be charged against the occupants, shall exceed the value of improvements assessed as we have directed, then the successful party will be entitled to a decree for the residue; but if they fall short of that amount, the occupants are not to be allowed a decree for the excess in their favor. The reason why we thus refuse tfhe occupants the excess for their improvements, is, they, under Pope's decree, took possession of this land without the consent of the owner, by applying thereto a contract of his ancestor, which could not apply to it, and are, and then were, acquainted with all the hazards of the title, and must have improved, not innocently believing the land to be their own, but only eventually so, in case Lemaster never asserted his claim. In short, they acquired the land under circumstances which show that they must have expected to run the risk of all the dangers arising from the title of Lemaster, and as it has proved successful, they ought not to be permitted to claim against its owner the value of all improvements which they may have thought proper, under such circumstances, to put upon the land; but only for so much as will extinguish the charges against them. *6 The decree must, therefore, be reversed and set aside, and the cause be remanded, and such decree and proceedings be had, as will effectuate the opinion of this court, and Lemaster must recover the costs of both appeals. Ky.App. 1824. Pope v. Lemaster 5 Litt. 76, 15 Ky. 76, 1824 WL 1381 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
