(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 235,  17 Ky. 235 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1544 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hackwith v. Damron and Graham. Dec. 17, 1824. *1 Notice, Conveyances, Equity, Injunctions, Exhibits, Practice, Sheriff's Return, Process, Parties. ERROR TO THE FLOYD CIRCUIT; WILLIAM W. BLAIR, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 788(2) 228 Judgment 228XV Lien 228k786 Priorities Between Judgment and Conveyances 228k788 Prior Deed Not Recorded 228k788(2) k. Effect of possession or notice. Most Cited  Cases Possession of land by a third person is notice of his title to judgment creditors. Process 313 k 133 313 Process 313II Service 313II(E) Return and Proof of Service 313k132 Form and Requisites of Return or  Certificate 313k133 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases Where process was returned "Executed on all in my bailiwick but R. S.," it was held insufficient;  it not appearing how many resided in the bailiwick. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 230(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(C) Bona Fide Purchasers 400k225 Notice 400k230 Recitals in  Conveyance 400k230(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases It is sufficient notice to the holder of the legal title that his conveyance shows an outstanding equity. Appeal and Error 30 k 204(4) 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(B) Objections and Motions, and Rulings Thereon 30k202 Evidence and Witnesses 30k204 Admission of  Evidence 30k204(4) k. Documents in general. Most Cited  Cases Where exhibits are read in the court below without objection, they cannot be objected to in this court, though the answer professed ignorance of them and demanded of complainants their proof. Equity 150 k 90 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k89 Parties in General 150k90 k. Necessity and effect of interest. Most Cited  Cases The fact that one of two defendants in ejectment bought out the interest of the other is no objection to his right to maintain a bill in equity to recover the legal title. Equity 150 k 123 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k120 Subpoena 150k123 k. Service. Most Cited Cases Where proper parties are named in the bill in equity, and process is issued, and the sheriff has not served it on one whom he admits to be within his bailiwick, and gives no reason for his failure, and there appears to be an acknowledgment of service by some, but no proof thereof, time should be given to the complainants to prove the execution of the process, or to bring the parties before the court. Injunction 212 k 1153 212 Injunction 212IV Particular Subjects of Relief 212IV(A) Courts and Actions in General 212k1152 Commencement and Prosecution in General 212k1153 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 212k26(1)) It is no objection to the right of a defendant in ejectment to injunctive relief that he came into the ejectment after it was commenced by purchasing out the interest of the tenant and uniting with him in the defense. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Statement of the case. John Smith and John Preston, in the year 1787, entered into a written contract with Daniel and Matthias Harman, and Charles and Henry Skaggs, in which the four latter agreed to find out vacant lands on Sandy river, whereon to locate land warrants to be furnished by Smith and Preston, to the amount of 100,000 acres, and to attend the surveying, Smith and Preston bearing all expenses, and as a compensation, Smith and Preston were to convey to them, one-third of all the lands located. Locations to a considerable amount were made, and among the rest, a survey of 1,283 acres, the patent for which issued to a certain John Graham, who conveyed the whole thereof to Richard Damron, who still holds the legal title, part of which is the subject of controversy in this suit. Daniel Harman, on the 22d day of March, 1806, assigned all his interest in said contract, to William Harman, except 250 acres, and on the 8th day of September, 1806, William Harman assigned the same interest to Richard Daniel, Robert Haws, Harry Stratton, Solomon Stratton, Cornelius M'Guire, Richard Stratton, Tandy Stratton and Robert Brown. On the 13th of June, 1803, Matthias Harman, one of the original locators, sold by an article of agreement to William M'Guire, a certain specified part of the tract of 1,283 acres, supposed to contain about 400 acres, more or less, and including the improvements of said Matthias Harman, who then resided thereon, and agreed to convey it, and M'Guire took possession accordingly. On the 2d day of September, 1806, said Matthias Harman sold and assigned all the residue of his interest in the article of locations with Smith and Preston, except 550 acres, to Adam Harman. While several settlers resided upon the tract of 1,283 acres, all appearing to claim under that title, and among the rest, John Hackwith, the present appellant, and the said William M'Guire, and the said Richard Damron, who holds the legal estate, brought his ejectment against them. Pending this suit, it seems to have been settled as to the premises then in possession of Hackwith, and the suit, as to him, was dismissed by consent. He then bought out the possession of M'Guire, and procured from him an assignment of the article between said M'Guire and Matthias Harman, and caused himself to be made defendant in the ejectment for and with M'Guire and Damron, by force of his legal title, obtained a judgment, to enjoin which, Hackwith filed this bill, relying on the equity derived from Matthias Harman, one of the original locators, and praying a perpetual injunction and a conveyance of the legal title, and charging that Graham, who had obtained the patent, and Damron, had full notice of the equity aforesaid. Damron and Graham both answered, contesting the equity. The court below decided, that Hackwith was not entitled to a conveyance, but ought to recover the value of his improvements, lessened by the rents, and directed an account accordingly. *3 Decree of the circuit court. On the coming in of the report, it appearing that the rents exceded the value of the improvements, the court dismissed the bill, and to reverse that decree, Hackwith has prosecuted this writ of error. If the decree of the court below shall be found erroneous, it is certainly furnished with a considerable apology, from the manner in which the cause is prepared, and the obscurity in which it is enveloped; for the bill and amended bill, are void of perspicuity, and do not give an intelligible history of the case. Still, however, as it is aided somewhat by the answers, and more by the exhibits in the cause, we conceive it may sustain the claim. (1.) It is charged in the amended bill, and admitted in the answers of Damron and Graham, that this tract, in a division between Smith and Preston on one side, and the locators on the other, was wholly assigned to the locators; that Matthias Harman settled thereon, and after him M'Guire, making a residence of many years. (1) Where the conveyance under which the holder of the legal title claims, shows an outstanding equity, he has sufficient notice, and must surrender the title, whenever such claim shall be made appear. The attempt made by Graham and Damron to deny any knowledge of the equity of Hackwith, is too barefaced to cast any obstacle in the way of relief. Graham as well as Damron, admits that Graham acquired the title by and through the same locative contract; that he had purchased out the shares of two of the four partners, Charles and Henry Skaggs, and with that equity united the legal estate as to half, by obtaining a patent, and for the other moiety he held it as trustee, and that must be as trustee to those who claim under the two other locators, of which Hackwith is one. Accordingly, the deed from Graham to Damron, contains a warranty of one-half the land against Preston, and in whose name the location was made, and all claiming under him, and against all purchasers under the locators, naming one expressly to whom William Harman and assigned his interest, acquired under Daniel Harman, and as to the remaining moiety, he warrants against himself only, adding, that as to that, "he acts as agentonly on behalf of the locators and Preston." Such an acknowledgment in the deed, must, according to well settled principles, bind Damron, who holds under it, to know and take notice of the locator's interest, at his peril, and he must be bound to surrender the title, whenever such claim shall be made to appear. It is even further admitted, that Damron, when he took the title from Graham, gave bond to convey to those claiming under the locators. (2.) After these admissions and proofs, all the apology they can have for denying knowledge of the equity of Hackwith, is, that they meant they had no knowledge of his purchase from M'Guire. It is clear, however, they had notice of M'Guire's residence on the land, and this ought to be and is held sufficient notice to a purchaser of the equity claimed by the occupant. *4 (2) Possession is sufficient notice to a purchaser, of the equity claimed by the occupant. If, then, this tract was assigned to the locators, it is clear that Matthias Harman is entitled to one-fourth of it, and the sale to M'Guire being the eldest, no reason is perceived why this fourth should not be assigned in discharge of that sale, out of the tract claimed, which includes the improvements made by M. Harman and M'Guire, if it could be done with due regard to the interest of the other locators. It is not shown that Matthias Harman had disposed of his interest, otherwise than to M'Guire, and it is clear that Damron, by his purchase from Graham, can have acquired a title in equity to half only, and is bound to surrender the other half to the other locators, or their assignees. (3.) It is objected against the claim of the complainant, that he purchased this bond from M'Guire after the ejectment was brought. If the complainant, now appellant, had bought out the possession of M'Guire, and entwined himself into the contest after it had commenced, and had then attempted to set up a new title, not before held by the parties, it might be a good reason for not favoring his claim, or at least have caused the chancellor to refuse an injunction. But this is not the fact. He and M'Guire were sued together. After settling his part of the controversy, he acquired M'Guire's interest, who seemed not willing to stand the onset, and thereby subjected his adversary to the investigation of no new title, or any greater hazard than he would have been in a contest with M'Guire. We can not, therefore, perceive any thing in this circumstance calculated to defeat the claim, if it is otherwise fair. (3) It is no objection to the right of a defendant in ejectment to relief in equity, that he came into the ejectment after it was commenced, by purchasing out the interest of the tenant, and uniting with him in the defense. Had he, in this mode, brought into litigation another claim, it might have been an objection to an injunction--Argu. (4.) It is insisted by Damron, that M'Guire had not paid to Matthias Harman nor the complainant to M'Guire, all the purchase money, and, therefore, the complainant is entitled to no relief. How this defence can lie in the mouth of Damron, we can not perceive. He has no payment to demand before he conveys. (4) One defendant in a bill, can not resist a release of the legal title, on the ground that the complainant has not paid all the purchase money to another. Where the defendants to whom a part of the purchase money for the land of which the conveyance is sought, do not answer, but give their depositions, without showing a disposition to place the matter in the complainant's road, the chancellor will not regard it. Matthias Harman and M'Guire might complain of this; and although they are parties, they are silent on this matter. They have not answered; but their depositions are taken, and they show no disposition to place this as an obstacle in the road of the appellant. *5 (5.) It is also insisted, that the complainant has not proved his exhibits. Had their genuineness been specially put in issue, this defence might have been availing; but they are not expressly denied, nor do the defendants, Damron and Graham, appear to be ignorant of their existence, and indeed claim under them, except the assignment of Matthias Harman's bond or writing by M'Guire to the complainant, of which they assert ignorance, and put the appellant upon the proof. But this, as well as all the other exhibits, were read on the hearing, without objection, and it is too late to make the objection here for the first time. (5) Where exhibits are read in the court below without objection, they can not be objected to in this court, though the answer had professed ignorance of them, and called on the complainants for their proof. We, therefore conceive that the decree is erroneous, and that the complainant will be entitled to the fourth of the whole tract, or so much of it as will comply with said Harman's bond to M'Guire, assigned, covering the improvements, if it can be done without injustice to the rest of the tract, which can be told by commissioners, appointed and properly charged to remark the land recovered, and to report the practicability of such assignation, and instructed to make such difference in quality, as will equal one-fourth of the quantity. (6.) But as the decree is to be reversed, a difficulty occurs in rendering a decree at once. By the bill and amended bill, all the proper parties concerned in interest, are named. But the subpoena which issue against the aforenamed purchasers under Daniel Harman, is returned by the sheriff, "executed on all in my bailiwick but Richard Stratton." How many resided in his "bailiwick," is not told, and as to Richard Stratton, there are no further proceedings. (6) Return of the sheriff on the subpoena "executed on all in my bailiwick except R. S." is insufficient for any of the defendants, it not appearing who resided in his bailiwick. (7.) It is true, there is an acknowledgment by some or most of them, written on the subpoena; but there is no proof of the genuineness of this acknowledgment, as held necessary by this court, in the case of  Peers v. Carter's heirs, 4 Litt. Rep. 268. It will, therefore, be necessary to have these parties properly before the court, before a decree can be rendered on the merits of the controversy, as has been done in the present case. (7) There must be proof in the record of the genuineness of a written acknowledgment of service, endorsed on a subpoena. (8.) Here a point of practice occurs. It has been the general rule of this court, where the suit in equity has been heard on the merits, and the bill has been dismissed absolutely, and the proper parties were not made, and the equity was held sufficient to warrant some relief, to reverse the decree upon the merits, and to direct the dismission of the bill to take place in the court below, without prejudice to any future suit for the same cause. *6 (8) It is a general rule in this court, where a cause has been heard on the merits without the proper parties, and the bill dismissed absolutely, to the reverse the decree and direct a dismission, without prejudice to any future suit. The reason for the rule, is, that where parties were not made, the chancellor could dismiss for the want of them, and having dismissed absolutely, all that was erroneous in his decree, was, the dismission absolutely and not without prejudice. But there have been some exceptions to this rule, and the case of Beauchcamp v. Davis' executor, 3 Bibb 111, is one. That case is analogous to the present. There, as well as here, was an injunction, and after the service of process on one of the parties and he has died, an order of revivor was made as to his representatives, and this order was not served when the cause was heard and decided. But where the proper parties had been made in the bill, and after the death of one and a revivor, a copy of the order had not been served on the representatives, or where the sheriff had omitted to execute the process on a defendant admitted to be in his bailiwick, without giving a reason for it, or where there is a written acknowledgment of service endorsed on the subpoena, but not proved, time will be allowed the complainant on the return of the cause, to prove the execution of the process, or bring the parties before the court. Here, the proper parties are named in the bill, and process issued, and the sheriff has not served it on one which he admits to be in his bailiwick, and gives no reason for his failure, and there appears to be the acknowledgment of services by some, but no proof thereof. In such case, we conceive, that on the return of the cause, reasonable time ought to be given to prove the service of process, or to bring them before the court, and if this is not done, then the bill may be dismissed without prejudice, and if it is, then such proceedings may be had as shall not be inconsistent with this opinion and the rules of equity. The decree must be reversed with costs, and a mandate issued accordingly. Haggin and Daniel, for plaintiff; Bibb, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Hackwith v. Damron 1 T.B.Mon. 235, 17 Ky. 235, 1824 WL 1544 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
