(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 395,  19 Ky. 395 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1326 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Roberts' Heirs v. Elliott's Heirs, Elliott's Heirs v. Roberts' Heirs. Dec. 19, 1826. *1 Wills. Descent. Statutes. Practice. Conveyance Bonds. Feme Covert. Assignments. Bastards. Entries. Parties. Error. Mandates as to Parties. CROSS APPEALS FROM THE SHELBY CIRCUIT; H. DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 8 409 Wills 409I Nature and Extent of Testamentary Power 409k4 Property and Rights Subject to Testamentary Disposition 409k8 k. After-Acquired Property. Most Cited Cases In Kentucky, prior to January 1, 1787, a testator could not pass after-acquired estates by will. Abatement and Revival 2 k 75(1) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k75 Application and Proceedings Thereon 2k75(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where defendants, who had answered before complainant's death, appear to an order for reviving the suit in the names of his heirs and proceed to a hearing, it is a sufficient revivor as to them. Abatement and Revival 2 k 75(1) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k75 Application and Proceedings Thereon 2k75(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where, on the complainant's death, the suit is, on motion, directed to be revived in the name of his heirs, this is a sufficient revivor as to the defendants who have appeared and answered, but is not to be held as a valid revivor as to the others. Assignments 38 k 32 38 Assignments 38II Mode and Sufficiency of Assignment 38k32 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases One deriving title by assignment of an instrument executed to a man and his "sisters" must show who the sisters are, and that they all executed the assignment. Assignments 38 k 134 38 Assignments 38VI Actions 38k133 Evidence 38k134 k. Presumptions and Burden of Proof. Most Cited  Cases A party setting up title to land by assignment of a bond executed to A. and his "sisters" must show who the sisters are, and that they all executed the assignment. Equity 150 k 91 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k89 Parties in General 150k91 k. Nature and Extent of Interest. Most Cited  Cases It is erroneous for the court, on a bill setting up an entry and junior patent for land against elder patents, to give a decree on the merits for an undivided part of the land claimed, on deciding that the title is not in one of the defendants. The true owner ought to be brought before the court, or the bill dismissed without prejudice. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 This is a bill filed by Joseph Roberts, in his life time, setting up an entry and junior patent for land, against elder patents. Bill by Roberts on an entry. He died pending the suit, and it was revived by order in the names of his heirs at law. Revivor by order. The court below decreed to them an undivided part of the land claimed, and dismissed the bill as to the residue, and from that decree each party has appealed, and each has assigned errors. Decree of the circuit court for an undivided moiety of the land. The defendants below insist that the complainant has made out no title to the claim aserted in the bill, and that there is a want of proper parties to the suit, We shall first inquire into the truth of this assignment; as it may not only supersede an investigation of, but render it improper to say anything on the merits. Objection to complainants derivation of title and for the want of parties. The claim set up is an entry, survey and patent in the names of Samuel Bell and Daniel Sullivan. Land granted to S. Bell and D. Sullivan. As to Bell's moiety, the bill sets up a bond, which purports to be executed to John Gamble and his sisters, without naming of them, by thomas Bell, Joseph Bell and Sarah Bell, who are stated to be heirs and devisees of Samuel Bell the patentee. This bond purports to be assigned by John Gamble, Rebecca Gamble, Robert Davis and Nancy, his wife, John Bell and Esther, his wife, (which females are charged to be the sisters of John Gamble,) to Samuel Bell the younger, and by him to James L. Henderson, and by Henderson to William Roberts, and by said William to Joseph the complainant, and the assignees and obligees, or their representatives, are named as parties to this suit. Complainants, derivation of title to Bell's moiety. This bond is alleged to be good for three fourths of the moiety of the patentee, leaving one fourth more in John Bell, another heir and devisee of the patentee, who is alleged to have made a will and devised it to Samuel Bell the younger, who conveyed to the complainant; all which is relied on as sufficient to pass the title, part legal and part equitable to the complainant, of the moiety of Samuel Bell, and the court below so decided, and decreed a conveyance, against these supposed devisees of the patentee, before decreeing in favor of the complainant against the holders of the adverse grants. As to the moiety of the patentee Sullivan, the blli sets up a direct conveyance from Daniel Sullivan, alleged to be son and sole heir of the said patentee, of which we shall for the present, take no farther notice. Derivation of title to Sullivan's moiety. The right of inheritance, or by devise in any of these supposed representatives of the patentees, is strictly contested by the answers of the defendants, who hold adversely. Answers, contesting complainants title. It seems evident from the proof that Samuel Bell the patentee, died childless, and that he made a will, wherein, he devised all his estate, after his debts were paid, to be divided into four equal parts, and one of each of those parts to be allotted to his brothers, John Bell, Thomas Bell, Joseph Bell, and his sister, Sarah Bell, respectively. *3 Samuel Bell's will, devising his estate to John Thomas, Joseph and Sarah Bell. This so far suits, at first sight, the allegations of the complainant, and must have been held by the court below, sufficient to support them. But the will of Samuel Bell, the patentee, is dated on the 23d of September, 1782, and the entry made in the joint names of him and Sullivan, is dated on the 21st day of December, 1784, upwards of two years after the date of the will, We are not favored with the date of the warrant, in any part of the record, and we can not presume that it was issued more than two years before the date of the entry. The entry then must be taken as after-acquired lands and such lands at the date of this will, could not pass by devise.--Indeed, the will making power did not extend prospectively to estates thereafter acquired, so that testators, however strong they might express their intention to pass future estates, could not do it, until the first day of January, 1787, when they were allowed to do so, if they chose. Statutes of wills prior to first January, '87, did not give the power to devise after-acquired lands. Since that date, the devisor may do so if he choose. It then clearly follows, that this tract of land was not affected by the will of the patentee, but was left to descend to his heirs; whether to one heir, or to all his brothers and sisters, depends upon the time of his death, whether before the first day of January 1787, or since. We have no certain proof of the exact time. The first certain account of his death is in April, 1788, when his will was produced for probate, and this will not warrant us in presuming that he was dead on the first day of January, 1787. Prior to first January, '87, lands of an unmarried man, descended to his eldest brother, since then to all his brothers and sisters. Assuming the fact to be, that he died afterwards, the proof is clear that he had at least five brothers and three sisters, so that the complainant, according to his own shewing, has derived an equity from only half the number of his heirs at law. Indeed his title does not appear complete to John Bell's part of that half. For although the will of John Bell is filed, and there is a devise to Samuel Bell, jr., which includes this tract of land, yet it is also jointly with him to John Bell, jr., and Stephenson Bell. A conveyance from Stephenson Bell for himself and as attorney in fact for John Bell, the younger, to Samuel Bell, jr., is filed, but we can not discover any letter of attorney to Stephenson Bell, which authorizes him to make such a conveyance. Of course, one-third of the title of John Bell the elder, has not passed to the complainant. Letter of attorneys authorising a conveyance, under which complainant derives title, not appearing, held that he did not acquire the title. A further difficulty in the title of the complainant appears in the assignment of the bond executed to John Gamble and his sisters. This imposed upon the complainant below, the proof of who were his sisters, and that they were the same persons who had assigned the conveyance bond; on this point the proof made is defective; for it does not clearly appear how many sisters Gamble had, whn they were, and that all had made the assignment. *4 One deriving title by assignment of a bond executed to a man and his sisters must shew who the sisters are and that they all executed the assignment. Here we will suggest a further difficulty in the complainants road. Some of those persons who have assigned the bond, and who are alleged to be the sisters of Gamble, appear to be femes covert. To pass their title, it is necessary that they should pass an examination, by the proper authority, as directed by act of assembly. Whether it be absolutely necessary that such privy examination should take place before a decree can be rendered, we need not enquire. For it is clear, that on a bare assignment in conjunction with the husband, the chancellor ought not to decree away the title of the feme, or determine that it had already passed on a bill taken as confessed, and on her default. A further assent on her part, on the records of the chancellor, at least, is necessary before such decree can be rendered. There must be a privy examination to pass the title of a feme covert obligee in a conveyance bond. Query--Whether a decree may be rendered on such an assignment without privy examination?-- --It can not on bill pro confesso.--A further assent on her part must appear on the chancellor's record. We have seen that the title of the complainant to the moiety of Bell, the patentee, is defective; a worse defect is alleged in the answers against the moiety of Sullivan. It is alleged that Daniel Sullivan who, as heir of the patentee, had conveyed to the complainant, Joseph Roberts, was an illegitimate child--that although his father was in fact married to his mother, yet the mother was, at the same time, the legal wife of another man, and continued so during her cohabitation with the father. The court below conceiving the proof satisfactory on this point, dismissed the claim of the complainants as to the moiety thus derived; but considering the equity to Bell's moiety clear, still proceeded to give relief to the complainants as to one undivided moiety of the interference with the defendants. Held by the circuit court that the child of a second marriage, the first wife living, is illegitimate and not his father's heir. We will not now, express any opinion on this proof, especially as the attitude of the parties, or the strength of this proof may, by further proceedings be materially changed. But the relief granted as to the undivided moiety of the interference is singular and without precedent. The principle is almost, if not altogether universal, which requires all parties concerned in interest, to be brought before the court in a suit in equity, anterior to a final decision on the merits. This principle has been applied with unbending force by the courts of this country to that class of cases in which the chancellor has been called to give relief against elder grants in favor of special entries. The decree must be final, and settle the whole controversy, and there can not be as many suits as there are owners of undivided portions. Therefore, not only joint tenants, and parceners, but tenants in common have either been compelled to join, or stand, on refusal to join, in the attitude of defendants. It then inevitably followed, upon deciding that the moiety of Sullivan did not belong to the complainant, that the court could not with propriety give a decree on the merits for an undivided part, or absolutely dismiss the bill. *5 In bills for relief against the elder grant, in favor of special entries, all who have any interest in the complainants claim whether parceners or tenants in common must unite as complainants or be made defendants. But the chancellor was bound, either to dismiss the bill without prejudice, for the want of proper parties, or he might in his discretion, give a decree directing such dismission, if the proper parties were not made in a limited time; neither of which is done in this case. If Daniel Sullivan who had conveyed, was not the heir, it is presumable that the title rests in some other heir, and the true owner ought to be brought before the court, or the bill be dismissed without prejudice. If there be a want of parties in such case, the chancellor may in his discretion give time for them to be made, or dismiss the bill without prejudice. If defendants who had answered before complainants death, appear to an order for reviving the suit, in the names of his heirs and so proceed to a hearing it will do for revivor as to them.-- --But as to defendants who do not appear, such an attempt to revive will not be effectual. We will notice one other defect in the preparation, which, if the cause should progress further in the court below, ought to be corrected. On the death of Roberts, the complainant, a motion was made and the cause directed by order to be revived in the name of his heirs. As some of the defendants had appeared and answered, and seem afterwards to have taken notice of this order, without service thereof, this proceeding as to them is deemed a sufficient revivor. But there were many other defendants necessary to the complainant's case, who had never appeared or answered, and some of them had only constructive notice by order of publication. As to these, the cause could not be revived by a simple order, but a bill of revivor was necessary. For it is only as to those defendants who may have answered, that the act of assembly permits a revivor by mere order and service thereof. Other cases still remain subject to the ancient chancery remedy by bill of revivor. The decree must be reversed. The heirs of Joseph Roberts, the complainant, must pay the costs of both appeals. The cause must be remanded, with directions to the court below to dismiss the bill without prejudice to a future suit, for the same cause of complaint, unless the complainants shall bring all the proper parties before the court, in a reasonable time there given for that purpose. Mandate as to parties. Talbot, for Robert's heirs; Crittenden, for Elliott's heirs. Ky.App. 1826. Roberts' Heirs v. Elliott's Heirs 3 T.B.Mon. 395, 19 Ky. 395, 1826 WL 1326 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
