(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 237,  10 Ky. 237 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1047 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Pursley v. Rezin Davidge et al. Apr. 5, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE CHRISTIAN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 369 150 Equity 150VIII Hearing, Submission of Issues to Jury, and Rehearing 150k369 k. Condition of Cause. Most Cited Cases A chancery suit cannot be regularly tried until the next term after the defendant's answer is noted of record. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: Pursley, the appellant, filed his bill in the court below against Rezin Davidge only, praying the specific execution of an article of agreement entered into between Azariah Davis and said Davidge, and by Davis assigned to the appellant. The article contained mutual stipulations, on the part of Davidge, to convey thirty acres of land, adjoining the town of Hopkinsville, and on the part of Davis to pay therefor one thousand dollars by instalments. To this bill Davidge answered, and the cause remained in this situation for some time, when Davidge amended his answer, setting up a new defence; alleging that Davis, previous to the assignment to the appellant, had given an order or authority in favor of John Gray, directing him to convey the piece of land--that Gray had sold this order to Young Ewing, to whom he, Davidge, had conveyed in discharge of it. After this disclosure, at a subsequent term, the complainant amended his bill, charging collusion to defeat his recovery, and making Davis, Gray. Ewing, and Fidelio C. Sharp defendants. Immediately after the said amendment was made, and an order awarding process, the record proceeds thus: "And it is agreed by the parties aforesaid in this cause, that the answers of the defendants, Rezin Davidge, Azariah Davis, Young Ewing, Fidelio C. Sharp, and John Gray, shall be considered as filed at this term, and so taken in all respects, provided said answers are filed in the clerk's office of this court within twenty days from this time." Davidge, Ewing, Gray and Sharp filed their answers within the twenty days,but Davis did not,and the process against him was returned "not found." At the next term of the court, all these defendants below, except Davis, appeared and urged trial. The appellant objected to it, urging his right to continue as the cause stood. The court, however, ruled him into trial, as to these defendants, and on the merits dismissed his bill with costs as to all except Davis; The appellant excepted, and prayed an appeal; and this forms the first question for our decision. By the act of assembly regulating chancery proceedings, the complainant is not bound to try the cause until the next term after the defendant's answer is noted of record. Although this provision may not embrace the cases of answers to amended bills, as that of Davidge was in this instance; yet as by his own acts he had associated with himself the other defendants, and made it necessary for the complainant to bring them before the court, the cause ought not to have been tried as to him, without trying it as to them at the same time; and they could, under this provision of the statute, have no right to demand trial, but must rely on the agreement on record to entitle them to it. If this agreement is to be considered as an appearance and agreement on the part of the defendant Davis, it was erroneous to try the cause as to the rest without him; for he is indubitably a necessary party,having assigned the agreement to the appellant. And we conceive such a writing, signed by each, with mutual stipulations, was not assignable under the act of assembly regulating assignments,so as to vest the legal right thereto in the appellant. Besides, if this agreement was made by Davis, on record, as to filing his answer, he evidently did not comply with it by filing his answer, and of course it was not obligatory further on the appellant. If, on the contrary, this arrangement about filing the answers is to be understood as embracing the rest of the defendants, and not Davis, as the court below seems to have understood it, it must be considered as an engagement on their part to have Davis' answer there as well as their own. This they did not do, and of course they had no right to demand trial by the agreement of record, as the provisionary clause was not complied with on their part. We conceive, therefore, that the appellant was urged into trial prematurely, when neither by law nor the agreement of the parties was he bound to try the cause. This renders it unnecessary to say any thing on the merits, as they may hereafter be materially changed by the parties. *2 A chancery suit can not be regularly tried till the term next succeeding that which the answers are noted of record. The decree must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to the court below to reinstate the cause for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin and Pope, for appellant; Crittenden,for?? appellees. Ky.App. 1821. Pursley v. Davidge 3 A.K.Marsh. 237, 10 Ky. 237, 1821 WL 1047 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
