(Cite as: 4 Litt. 220,  14 Ky. 220 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1259 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Shreve v. Grimes. Oct. 20, 1823. *1 FROM THE JESSAMINE COURT, THE HON. WILLIAM L. KELLY SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 138(5) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k138 Contracts Implied by Law on Part Performance 185k138(5) k. Recovery for Improvements. Most Cited  Cases Where the contract for sale of lands is void under the statute of frauds, the occupier cannot recover of the owner for labor and improvements on an implied promise. HARDIN and BARRY for Shreve; HAGGIN for Grimes. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Under a decree in favor of the now appellant, the mills and farm of a certain Thomas Caldwell, were sold, and the appellant became the purchaser. Grimes, the present appellee, resided upon the estate at the time, claiming under some contract made with Caldwell, as a purchaser from him; but of what kind does not appear in this cause. Immediately after the purchase, Grimes agreed to become the tenant of the appellant, and to receive and hold possession under him, for one year; and accordingly, an article of agreement was entered into and signed by the parties, in which the appellee stipulated to pay the rent of seven hundred and fifty dollars, and passed his notes for the same, payable by installments of three, six, nine and twelve months, each being one hundred and eighty-seven dollars and fifty cents; and at the end of the term, bound himself to restore the estate. The appellant stipulated to keep the appellee in possession, and to allow the appellee a credit for such necessary and lasting improvements or repairs, as should be requisite in the opinion of the appellee, and be consented to by the appellant, during the term, to the amount of two hundred and twenty-six dollars, eighty cents, and no more, on the last instalments. At the close of this year, a new lease was made for one year longer, and reduced to writing, in the form of an article of agreement, signed by the parties, in which the same rent was stipulated, with a little variation as to the instalments, and also, an agreement that the last instalment, which was two hundred dollars, might be expended "in repairs to said mills, provided that the necessary repairs to the mills might require that sum, within the year, in the opinion and judgment of both parties, or so much thereof as might be judiciously expended in repairs, in the judgment of both parties." A person who has bought and possesses land under a parol contract which can not be enforced, can not recover from his vender, on the principle of implied assumpsit, for the ameliorations and improvements made on the land while in his possession, in an action of assumpsit. After the close of the last year, the appellee brought this action of assumpsit, and declared in two counts for work and labor, care, diligence, and materials expended on the mills and farm aforesaid, during the existence of the aforesaid leases, and exhibited and proved a large account for improvements done upon the premises, of nearly fourteen hundred dollars value, and showed that the prices were reasonable. He also proved, that while he was building a bridge across the mill-dam, the appellant was there and dined with the appellee, and said in conversation at that time, that the job was an arduous undertaking, but he had no doubt it would be useful; that the appellant lived in the neighborhood, and was at and passed the mills frequently, and as often conversed with the appellee, while the work was doing; but the witnesses did not hear what was said. One of these occasions was while the appellee was clearing of land, which was an act directly contrary to the stipulations of the lease. One witness deposed, that on the day of sale, the commissioner appointed to execute the decree, by selling the farm and mills, who is since dead, informed him that the appellant had bought the land and mills; but the appellee was to keep them, and had purchased them of the appellant by a parol agreement, and was to pay interest at the rate of ten per centum per annum, on the amount of the price, which was the same sum due from Caldwell to the appellant, for which the land was sold, that is, five thousand dollars, with some interest and costs, until he, the appellee, paid up the price. The witness further stated, that in a conversation with the appellant, a few days afterwards, the precise expression of which, he could not recollect, his impression was, that he understood about the same thing from the appellant, which he had learned from the commissioner. But some time afterwards, he, the witness, was informed that the appellee held the mills under lease. *2 The appellant, on his part, introduced the leases, or two articles of agreement, which appeared to be in his own handwriting, except the signature of the witnesses and appellee. He proved, that at the close of the first year, he settled with the appellee, and gave him credit for an account for improvements and repairs, to the amount of two hundred and eleven dollars and three-quarters, being all the improvements then claimed and took his note for the balance of rent then due, on which he, the appellee, afterwards confessed judgment, after a small credit was endorsed for grinding and sawing. This last witness, who was the appellant's son-in-law, heard no further claim for improvements at that time. The same witness further stated, that at the time the second agreement or lease was entered into, he went with the appellant to the appellee's house, when the appellant proposed to rent the mills another year. The appellee appeared to be angry, and observed that he might as well die by the sword as famine; but after a while, he was reconciled and entered into the second agreement. This was, in substance, all the evidence, except such as went either to increase or diminish, on the respective sides, the value of the improvements for which the suit was brought. The appellee, on this evidence, contended that there was a sale to him, verbally, of the farm and mills, known only to the commissioner; that the leases were only colourable, to cover the interest of ten per centum on the price; while the appellant insisted for the transaction being as stated upon the face of the writing, and that there was no sale. The counsel for the appellee, moved the court to instruct the jury, that if they should find from the evidence that the appellee made the improvements claimed, under a verbal agreement for the purchase of the property, which had never been consummated or reduced to writing, the appellee was entitled to a verdict for their value, so far as the improvements were necessary and valuable to the appellant, as proprietor of the soil, and made with his privity, consent and approbation. This instruction was given by the court. The appellant moved the court on his part to instruct the jury, that if they were satisfied from the evidence, that the contracts for renting the premises were reduced to writing, they could not find for the appellee in this form of action, unless the parties authorized the making of the improvements by some subsequent contract. This application was overruled by the court. After verdict, the appellant moved for a new trial, on the ground that the verdict was against the law and evidence of the case. This motion was, also, overuled. And the appellant having excepted to these opinions and spread the evidence upon the record, has brought the whole case before this court by appeal; and in his assignment of error, complains of these decisions of the court below. The principle involved in the instruction given by the court below, contains within it, this simple inquiry, can a person who has bought and possesses land by a parol contract, which can not be enforced under our act to prevent frauds and perjuries, recover from his vender the ameliorations and improvements made upon the land, while he thus held it, in an action of assumpsit? *3 It has been already settled by this court, in the case of Keith v. Paton, 1 Marsh. 23, that the consideration paid for land under such circumstances, may be recovered back; and it seems evident, that an action for money had and received, or detinue or trover for the property paid, or a quantum meruit for labor and services, paid as the price of the land, might be recovered back. But whether the ameliorations of the soil made in the mean time, can be so recovered, is a different question. No doubt, the party, in some such cases, is entitled to some remedy for improvements, and the opposite side for rents and profits, and this court has, in suits in chancery, directed one to be discounted against the other. But still, this does not answer the question, whether any action at law can be brought, and if so, is this the proper one? The jurisdiction of a court of equity over a subject, is not conclusive that no action at law will lie. We have said, that in some such cases, recovery for ameliorations may be had. But we would not be understood as saying, that such recovery could be had in every case; for if the purchaser should choose to live upon the land at such an uncertainty, and should make such amelioration, and should himself disaffirm the contract and never offer to fulfil it, and cast the improvements made upon the hands of his adversary, and thus attempt to make him a debtor to that amount, against his consent, and without his default, the right to recover the value of improvements, in such case, would be very problematical. At all events, if, in such case, they could be recovered, it could not be in an implied assumpsit; for there would be no ground to presume a promise or undertaking. If we take this case on a still broader ground, we should be at a loss to perceive the principle on which an action of assumpsit could be maintained. In the case of money or property paid to the vender, for the land itself, when he had only given his promise to convey, and should refuse to fulfil it, as such promise is of no avail in law, the price may be recovered back, on the principle that the consideration on which it was paid, happens to fail. But, with regard to ameliorations made under such circumstances, they are not designed for the use of the seller. He is not instrumental in causing them to be made, as he is in case of payment of the price. They may or may not be made, at the election of the purchaser; and in searching the principles over, for which an implied assumpsit will lie, we discover not one which would support the action. If the seller can be at all made liable for them, it must be on the principle of equity, that he ought not, when the improvements are delivered over to him, to be enriched by another's loss. It is true, an implied assumpsit will lie for work and labor done for the defendant upon his request and assent, without any fixed price, or any express promise to pay; but the labor must be his, and the work be done for him, and not for another, and the work afterwards happen to become his, before the action can be sustained. We, therefore, conceive that whatever remedy the appellee may have, it is not by an implied assumpsit for work and labor, and that the court below consequently erred in instructing the jury that the appellee was entitled to recover, if the facts should be as he contended. If this question was not against the appellee, we should not be disposed to disturb the verdict, because the court overruled the application to instruct, made by the appellant. The proposition made by him, involved in it the principle, that the writings controlled the contract and excluded the parol evidence of a verbal sale. It is true, that writings can not, in general, be affected or varied by parol proof; but, it is the effect of the statutes against usury, to alter this principle, and to let in the parol proof, to show thereby that there was usury, although the writings negative the fact. *4 As to the question of a new trial, it is unnecessary to say any thing, as it necessarily results from the opinion already expressed, that the court below ought not to have permitted the verdict to stand. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause be remanded, for new proceedings to be there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Shreve v. Grimes 4 Litt. 220, 14 Ky. 220, 1823 WL 1259 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 117 END OF DOCUMENT
