(Cite as: 4 Litt. 187,  14 Ky. 187 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1251 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Farmer and Arnold v. Samuel, &c. Oct. 16, 1823. *1 FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. H. DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Partnership 289 k 68(1) 289 Partnership 289II The Firm, Its Name, Powers, and Property 289k68 Partnership Real Estate 289k68(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where land was purchased in equal partnership, payment by one partner of more than one-half the price does not entitle him to a conveyance of a proportional part of the land. Partnership 289 k 96 289 Partnership 289III Mutual Rights, Duties, and Liabilities of Partners 289III(B) Individual Transactions 289k96 k. Acquiring Title or Interest Adverse to Firm. Most  Cited Cases Where partnership land is sold under execution on a judgment against both the partners, a purchase by one of the partners does not extinguish the right of the other. Partnership 289 k 212 289 Partnership 289IV Rights and Liabilities as to Third Persons 289IV(D) Actions by or Against Firms or Partners 289k211 Pleading 289k212 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where partners purchase land, the fact of equal partnership gives an equity to one partner, on a bill against the vendee of the other to recover his share of the land. The fact of equal payment need not be alleged in the bill. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 246 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k246 k. Nature of Lien in General. Most Cited  Cases Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 337 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(A) Recovery of Purchase Money Paid 400k337 k. Lien for Purchase Money and Value of Improvements  and Enforcement Thereof. Most Cited Cases Both the vendor and vendee of lands have their mutual liens;  the former for the purchase money due, and the latter for what he has paid in case it is to be restored to him. Appeal and Error 30 k 266(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(C) Exceptions 30k266 Exceptions to Rulings, Report, or Findings of  Referee, Commissioner, or Auditor 30k266(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The appellate court will disregard all errors in a report of commissioners not excepted to in the court below. Equity 150 k 401 150 Equity 150IX Masters and Commissioners, and Proceedings Before Them 150k401 k. Questions and Matters Proper for Reference. Most Cited Cases In a suit by a purchaser against a subsequent grantee of the vendor to compel a conveyance to plaintiff, where the contest centered on the existence of any equity in plaintiff, and the court determined in his favor, the question of the position of the land was a proper subject for submission to the commissioner in chancery. Equity 150 k 415 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k415 k. Nature and Essentials in General. Most Cited Cases A decree authorizing the clerk to issue a habere facias possessionem on the production to him of a receipt for money decreed to be paid before the land is recovered is erroneous in referring the genuineness and validity of the receipt to the clerk. Equity 150 k 423 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k423 k. Nature and Extent of Relief in General. Most Cited Cases A decree directing a tender to be made in notes on the bank of the commonwealth, and in case they should be refused other measures to be taken by the person tendering them, is erroneous in making the party a judge of the facts of tender and refusal and the legality of those acts. Equity 150 k 423 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k423 k. Nature and Extent of Relief in General. Most Cited Cases A conditional decree for the restoration of land to the complainant on payment of money should assign a day for payment or tender, reserving to the court the right of deciding whether the condition was complied with;  and, if it was, to render a positive decree for the land. J. J. MARSHALL and BIBB for appellants; HARDIN for appellees. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 John Arnold and John M'Campbell purchased of William Bryan 344 acres of land, in partnership, to be divided equally, and a division line, dividing the tract into two equal parts, was run. M'Campbell sold 100 acres thereof to John Montgomery, and gave his bond for the conveyance thereof, and Montgomery took possession of the land, and afterwards sold and assigned the bond to James Samuel, who sold and assigned the same bond, and it passed through some two or three other hands, and then Samuel regained it, by purchasing it back; and he then filed this bill against Arnold, alleging that Arnold had, by some address, procured a conveyance to himself from Bryan, and had then sold and conveyed the said 100 acres to Benjamin Farmer, who had full knowledge and notice of his equity. He made Farmer, Arnold and M'Campbell, defendants, and prayed a conveyance of the land, or if the land could not be obtained, the value thereof, either from Arnold or Farmer. Where lands are purchased in equal partnership, the payment by one partner, of more than half the price, does not entitle him to a conveyance of more than half the land. If partnership land is sold under execution on a judgment against both the partners, the purchase by one of the partners, of the whole land, does not extinguish the right of the other partner to his moiety of the land. Arnold answered, admitting the joint purchase, and the division by survey of the land; but denies that lie knows anything of the complainant's claim, derived through Montgomery from M'Campbell. He insists that M'Campbell wholly failed in paying up any part of the money to Bryan; that he, Arnold, paid his part, and then a settlement took place, in which Bryan took a new bond for M'Campbell's part, with Arnold as security, and then M'Campbell also failed in paying that bond, until Bryan assigned it away; and the assignee brought suit and recovered judgment; and then an execution thereon was levied on M'Campbell's share of the land, and it was sold, and he, Arnold, became the purchaser and paid the money; that he had given notice to M'Campbell and those who claimed under him, but none of them would pay the money; and alleges that before this, he had obtained the whole title from Bryan, as he had a right to do, and had sold the land to Farmer. The money paid, operates as a payment by one partner, to be adjusted as a pecuniary transaction between them. The commissioners in chancery, appointed pro haec vice in this state, sometimes exercise greater powers than are exercised by the master in chancery, in England. Farmer also answered, denying any knowledge of any previous transactions between Bryan, Arnold and M'Campbell, or of any claim, derived from M'Campbell, held by the complainant; admits his purchase and conveyance from Arnold, of a tract of land, and denies that he had any knowledge, at the time of his purchase, that the complainant held any equity in the land, except that he had heard that the complainant once had, or pretended to have, some claim thereto. *3 M'Campbell made no answer. The circuit court decreed that Farmer should convey the land, after directing an account to be taken of the money which Arnold had paid, and of improvements and rents and profits, the latter of which exceeded the former. The decree was conditional, upon the complainant's tendering or paying the excess which Arnold had paid to Bryan, before the conveyance was made. No decree was rendered touching the rents and profits or improvements. From this decree Arnold and Farmer have appealed to this court. A summary of the practice in England on this subject. Our commissioners ought not to exercise more or greater authority than the master in chancery in England or New York, can legally exercise. It is insisted in the answers, and is now contended in this court, that the bill is defective, in not expressly charging that M'Campbell had made his part of the payment to Bryan, and therefore it shows no equity on its face. It will be readily admitted, that in a bill claiming the specific performance of a contract, it is necessary that the complainant should show, in his bill, that he had done all that was incumbent upon him to do, or to set forth some valid excuse for not having done it. And if this was a bill of that character, we should deem the allegation of payment indispensable; but this is not a bill of that kind. The bill charges a purchase in partnership, and is not claiming against Bryan the benefit of that purchase, but shows that Bryan has conveyed. The title of M'Campbell, as against Arnold, did not depend so much on his payment, as on the joint purchase, Arnold, by paying more money than M'Campbell, could not increase his interest in the land. Although such excessive payment might give him a cause of action for the money, yet it could not take the land from M'Campbell, unless express contract should so increase his interest, which is not pretended. Arnold, then, on acquiring the title from Bryan, must be considered as holding it as a trustee for M'Campbell, as to his moiety, and not as a vender to M'Campbell, in which relation Bryan stood. All, then, that Arnold could expect, was, that the chancellor would compel M'Campbell, or his vendee, to do justice, before he received it, by paying what money was paid by Arnold for M'Campbell. It was competent, then, for Arold to show that he had paid this excess; but it was not necessary for M'Campbell or his vendee to allege that he M'Campbell, had paid his full proportion; for the fact of equal partnership, and not the fact of equal payment, gave M'Campbell his equity against Arnold or his vendee. What authority he may lawfully exercise in land cases. As far as a commissioner's report was not excepted to, it will be deemed correct. A decree deemed erroneous, as being uncertain, not finally deciding the cause, and referring to the decision of the clerk, matters which ought to have been decided by the court. It is also insisted, that the proof is wholly insufficient to authorize relief against Farmer, especially as he requires full proof of every thing. In this, we also disagree with the appellants' counsel. Bryan proves the partnership purchase, and sundry payments by M'Campbell, and the execution of the joint note for the last payment, and the conveyance to Arnold of the whole, which conveyance is also filed. It is also shown, by at least two witnesses, that Farmer was informed of the true state of the case, before he purchased. He, then, can stand in no better situation than Arnold. *4 A decree authorizing the clerk to issue an habere facias possessionem, on the production to him of a receipt for money decreed to be paid before the land is recovered, is erroneous, in referring the genuineness and validity of the receipt to the clerk. We attach no importance to the sale under execution and purchase by Arnold; for how Arnold, under an execution against himself and M'Campbell, could become the purchaser of a title in himself, so as to extinguish the title of M'Campbell, is what we do not understand. His purchase, then, is no more than a bare payment, the singular and solemn formality of the sheriff's sale notwithstanding. A decree directing a tender to be made in notes on the Bank of the Commonwealth, and in case they should be refused, other measures to be taken by the person tendering them, is erroneous, in making the party a judge of the facts of tender and refusal, and the legality of those acts. It is further contended, that the bill is defective, in not pointing out the division line between M'Campbell and Arnold, and particularly the boundaries of the bond for a less quantity than M'Campbell's moiety, given by M'Campbell to Montgomery, and set up by the complainant. This bond requires the obligor to convey the land, to-wit, the 100 acres, as laid off or surveyed by James F. Mitchell. It is true, the bill does not describe how the partition line was run originally between M'Campbell and Arnold, or set forth the boundaries of the 100 acres demarked by Mitchell. Nor do these matters appear to be inserted in the pleadings of either party, and, as far as appears, that matter is stirred for the first time in this court. That court appointed a commissioner to ascertain the boundaries of, and fix the position of the respective tracts, who reported these boundaries with a survey. And although that report was excepted to, yet no exception complained that the land was wrongfully located by the commissioner, which might easily have been done, if the fact had been so. If, then, the court could ascertain this matter by a commissioner, his report ought to have been excepted to, if erroneous in this particular, before it can be here set aside. In other countries where courts of chancery exist, a master is appointed permanently by government, to whom is committed the matters which can not be performed by the chancellor, without great loss of time. In the state of Virginia, anterior to our separation, and in this state since, the practice has been to appoint a commissioner pro haec vice, under an act of 1788 (1 Dig. L. K. 228), which provides, that "it shall be lawful for the high court of chancery, in such cases as may require a report, which can not be performed by the court, without great delay to other business, to employ one or more commissioners, and cause a reasonable allowance to be taxed in the bill of costs." Whether the commissioner or commissioners so appointed can do any other than ministerial acts, and how far they may be authorized to hear and determine on evidence, as they have only a temporary appointment, is a question of some moment, never settled in the practice of this country; nor will it be necessary to settle it now, further than to enquire whether the acts done by the present commissioner could be delegated to him, and were such as he might perform under the appointment. We discover that courts of chancery in this country have been in the habit of confiding to such commissioners large powers. Sometimes they are appointed without any testimony showing any thing to refer, and without any previous decision on questions of law or equity, to guide the commissioner appointed. They are then to collect the proof and report an opinion upon it, and of course measurably to occupy the place of the chancellor. This is going further than the English chancery; for the rules of that court, as collected by Chancellor Kent, of New York, in the case of Remsen, &c. v. Remsen, &c., 2 John. Chan. Rep. 495, are more restricted. Some of these will be recited. *5 A decree permitting a party, after having made such tender, and its being refused, to execute a bond payable in the currency of the Union, within two years is erroneous on the grounds stated, and for the additional reason, that such bond, being neither a recognizance nor a replevin bond, could not be collected without a new suit. The substance of a decree to be pronounced by the inferior court, given in a case of no small difficulty. Both the vender and vendee of lands have their mutual liens, the former for the purchase money due, the latter for what he has paid, in case it is to be restored to him. 1. That the parties should make their proofs as full, before the hearing in court, as the nature of the case requires or admits of, to the end that the supplementary proof before the commissioner, may be as limited as the rights and responsibilities of the parties will admit. 2. That orders of reference should specify the principles on which the accounts are to be taken, or the inquiry proceed as far as the court shall have decided thereon, and that the examinations before the master should be limited to such matters, within the limits of the order, as the principles of the decree or order may render necessary. 3. That no witness in chief, examined before publication, nor the parties, ought to be examined before the master (or commissioner), without an order for that purpose, which order usually specifies the subject and the extent of the examination; and a similar order seems to be requisite, where a witness once examined, is sought again to be examined before the master, on the same matter. These regulations seem to limit the powers confided to a master or commissioner, more than the present practice; and we would here observe, that the authority delegated to one temporary commissioner, ought not to be extended beyond that of the regular master in England or New York. It is, however, correct to refer matters of detail, such as can be ascertained by quantity and calculation, and also to fix and ascertain boundary, for which purpose surveyors, in our landed controversies, are substituted; and, indeed, any matter which results from the matters in contest, and to the ascertainment of which the attention of the parties has not been directed by the pleadings. Such, peculiarly, was the case with the boundary and local situation of the land now in contest. The stress of the controversy appears to have rested on the existence of any equity in the plaintiff, instead of what was the proper situation to place it. It could not, therefore, be exceeding what might properly be committed to a commissioner, to direct him to ascertain the proper position of the land, after the court had determined that the plaintiff was entitled. If in this the commissioner erred, his acts were subject to revision, upon proper exception, when the error could have been corrected. We have been thus particular in reply to this point, because the report of the commissioner was excepted to in other respects, and the exceptions overruled, and the decision of this first point we deem an answer to all the exceptions taken. *6 The same commissioner was directed to ascertain the excess of money paid by Arnold beyond his part, and also the quantity of land which would belong to M'Campbell, in the division, after the 100 acres were deducted. The commissioner reported the quantity of 72 acres, beyond the 100, and that the only balance paid by Arnold for M'Campbell, was the sum due by the execution of Bryan's assignee against Arnold and M'Campbell. A proportion of this sum, equal to what 100 acres would require, out of the 172, was decreed to be paid by the complainant, before he received the conveyance. It is contended that M'Campbell ought to have been charged with his full moiety; and then, that so much of that moiety ought to have been decreed to be paid, before conveyance, as would pay for the entire 100 acres, and that the decree of the court gave too small a sum. This exception we deem untenable. It is proved by Bryan, that M'Campbell did make payments at different times, and there are sundry credits on the note given to Bryan. Arnold might have shown to a cent, the excess which he paid beyond his moiety. As he showed that he made none, except that paid on the execution of Bryan's assignee, and the proof is, that M'Campbell made sundry payments, we conceive that the court did right in allowing Arnold no more than the sum given. So far, we conceive the decree of the court below correct; and if that court had taken the correct method of enforcing the principles adopted in the decree, we should not feel disposed to disturb it; but this is not the case. That court directed, that Farmer, on the tender of the money, should convey the land; and that if he should refuse to receive it in notes of the Bank of Kentucky, or Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and branches, the complainant might enter into bond in the clerk's office, with security approved by the clerk of the court, conditioned to pay the amount in the currency of the Union; and that, on executing such bond, or filing the receipt of Farmer, the clerk should issue a writ of habere facias possessionem; and thus the court finally disposed of the cause. The impropriety of leaving a decree conditional, or to be enforced conditionally, and of leaving the question whether the condition is or is not complied with, to the parties themselves, or the clerk of the court, must be apparent to every reflecting mind. It was proper that the chancellor should compel the complainant to do equity, before he received it, by paying the money; but it was incumbent upon him to see it done. Who, in this instance, was to decide that the tender was sufficient or that a payment was made? It was certainly improper to refer to the decision of the clerk, the genuineness and validity of a receipt. In short, no decree but a positive one, ought to be rendered, before the court dismiss the parties without day. Great inconvenience must result to both parties by this decree. If the complainant tendered the money, and the defendant refused to receive it or convey the land, what remedy had the complainant, but a new suit? If the complainant never tendered the money, or entered into the bond, how long must the defendant be subject to the decree hanging over his head? How many years must he be subject to surrender his domicil at the call of the complainant? *7 Nor do we approve of the complainant's being allowed to enter into bond with security, approved by the clerk, whatever may be the validity of the law allowing two years' replevin, where specie is demanded. The clerk is authorized, by these laws, to take a recognizance and approve the security, within ten days after court, or before the emanation of execution. But this is in the case of positive judgments or decrees. Here is no such judgment or decree, on which an execution could issue; so that the court could not delegate that power, and if it could, the bond could not have the force of a replevin bond. None such can have that force, but those taken by the clerk in the form of a recognizance, or by a sheriff under an execution, or by commissioners under a decree or order of sale. It was, therefore, improper to compel the defendant to part with his lien upon the land, for a bond which must be coerced by another suit. The only proper way, therefore, was for the court to assign a day, on or before which the payment or tender of the money should be made, and then reserve to itself the right of deciding whether the condition was complied with, and if it was, to render a positive decree for the land. As the decree must, for this cause, be reversed, the question presents itself, what decree ought to be rendered with regard to rents, profits and improvements? The difference between the rents and profits, on one side, and improvements on the other, was about $100 in favor of the former, as reported by the commissioner. Testimony was taken, conducing to show that the improvements were too low, and the rents too high, and the court gave no decree on this point, but left one to balance the other. We approve the decision of that court in refusing to appoint commissioners under the occupying claimant law. We can not consider the tenant a bona fide occupant, entitled to the provisions of that law, and he was certainly subject to all such rents and profits as could have been reasonably made upon the land; and, on the contrary, is entitled to lessen those rents and profits, so far as the lasting and valuable improvements extend, but no further. We do not view the evidence taken, sufficient to set aside the report. Some confidence is due to the decision of the commissioner. He does not appear to have been under any undue bias, or to have made a gross mistake in his estimates, although his report differs from the opinions of some of the witnesses. Opinions, we know, are various, and a mere difference is seldom counted sufficient to vitiate a report. Besides, the commissionerreported the rents from the time that Arnold got the possession, as directed. The witnesses say, they count the rents for the time which Farmer held it, and for three years before, which they suppose to be as long as Arnold had it, without knowing the time. Of course, the opinions of both them and the commissioner may be correct. We, therefore, conceive that the complainant is entitled to the excess of rents and profits beyond the improvements reported by the commissioner, and that the court ought to direct that sum, as well as the costs of the suit in the court below, to be taken from the money to be paid, and then, after reasonable time given for payment, or tender thereof, to decree the land positively to the complainant. And if, upon the tender of the money, the defendant in that court shall refuse to receive it, we would suggest the propriety of bringing the money into court, when the court shall decide on the tender and give the final decree. We also approve of so much of the decision of the court below, as directed the money to be paid or tendered to Farmer; for, as he is the vendee of Arnold, and will lose the land, it will be proper that he should receive the money, as he holds by a warranty from Arnold, and will be bound to give a credit for that much, when he shall seek his recourse on that warranty. *8 One other point in directing the decree which ought to be rendered in the court below, need be noticed, and that is, what kind of a decree must be rendered, if the complainant in that court shall fail, on a reasonable time to be given, to pay the money with its interest, as fixed by that court? In such case, although he can not obtain the land, he will be entitled to some redress. As he holds the bond of M'Campbell, given to Montgomery, he must be entitled to recover as much thereon against M'Campbell, as Montgomery paid for the land, with its interest; and so much, to be ascertained by a commissioner or commissioners appointed for that purpose, or a jury, will form the measure of compensation which he can recover in this suit. He may be entitled to so much against Montgomery, as he paid beyond what Montgomery paid M'Campbell, if any such excess was paid, as the assignment to him is general. But Montgomery is not before the court; and as the bond was assignable at law, under the decisions of this court, he was not a necessary party, and therefore nothing can be determined in this suit with regard to his claim against Montgomery; but the sum paid by Montgomery to M'Campbell, must be the sum for which he is entitled to a decree against M'Campbell. But as M'Campbell has paid for all the land, except what Arnold paid on the execution of the assignee of Bryan, in case Arnold or his vendee keeps the land, he will have a fair claim against Arnold for the sum paid by him; and as the complainant is the remote vendee of M'Campbell, he ought, in this suit, to be allowed to recover so much against Arnold, as M'Campbell would, and that is the same proportion of the money paid by M'Campbell to Bryan, with its interest, as one hundred acres bears to one hundred and seventy-two. What is more, as we have seen that as Arnold now stands in the shoes of Bryan, he has such a lien upon the title, as will not permit a court of equity to strip him or his vendee of the title, without the receipt of what he has paid; so M'Campbell, and consequently his vendee, the appellee, has also a lien upon the land for what was paid by M'Campbell; for both the vender and purchaser of lands have their mutual liens, the former for the purchase money due to him, and the latter for what he has paid, in case it is to be restored to him. It will, therefore, be correct to charge the sum which Arnold is bound to pay, when ascertained as before directed, upon the land, and to subject the said one hundred acres to a sale for that amount, if it is not paid, as in case of other liens; and for so much as is thus charged upon the land, or recovered of Arnold, M'Campbell will be entitled to a credit, in the decree obtained against him by the appellee, in case he fails to pay the balance of the price and keep the land. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below to enter a decree conformable with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Farmer v. Samuel 4 Litt. 187, 14 Ky. 187, 1823 WL 1251 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 106 END OF DOCUMENT
