(Cite as: 2 J.J.Marsh. 581,  25 Ky. 581 (Ky.),  1828 WL 2320 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Madison's Heirs v. Wallace's Executors. Jun. 28, 1828. *1 Jurisdiction. Revivor. Guardian ad Litem. Infant Heirs. Process. Sale of Land. Measure of Damages. Fraud. Writs of Error. Limitations. Non-resident. Defendants. Feme Coverts. ERROR TO THE GENERAL COURT. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 64 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(A) Abatement or Survival of Action 2k62 Death of Defendant 2k64 k. One of two or more defendants. Most Cited  Cases In a suit for specific performance against heirs, suggestion on the record of the death of a female heir, who retained her patronymic name to her death, does not dispense with necessity of revivor against her representatives. Abatement and Revival 2 k 71 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k71 k. Nature and necessity. Most Cited  Cases The death of a female minor heir being suggested on the record, and that her name was unchanged, the court will not presume that she made no will, nor that she left no issue, and a bill of revivor must issue. Appeal and Error 30 k 349 30 Appeal and Error 30VII Transfer of Cause 30VII(A) Time of Taking Proceedings 30k349 k. Effect of disability or death of party or counsel.  Most Cited Cases If one or more parties jointly interested be barred by lapse of time, all are barred, though some be under disability. Appeal and Error 30 k 349 30 Appeal and Error 30VII Transfer of Cause 30VII(A) Time of Taking Proceedings 30k349 k. Effect of disability or death of party or counsel.  Most Cited Cases All of the plaintiffs in a writ of error must, at rendition of the decree, labor under disabilities, or the rights of none of them are saved out of the statute of limitations. Boundaries 59 k 28 59 Boundaries 59II Evidence, Ascertainment, and Establishment 59k28 k. Jurisdiction. Most Cited Cases The general court may take jurisdiction by consent of parties when the bounds of land come in question. Infants 211 k 1238(4) 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1238 Necessity and Grounds in Particular Actions  or Proceedings 211k1238(4) k. Probate and trusts. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k78(1)) A. appeared as special guardian for infant heirs of B. There being no order of court appointing him, and it not appearing from the record how many of the heirs were infants, it was held that the cause must be reopened. Infants 211 k 1240(1) 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1240 Proceedings for  Appointment 211k1240(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k80(1)) A guardian ad litem for infant defendants should be appointed by order of the court. JUDGE MILLS delivered the opinion of the Court. *2 On the 4th of March, 1782, Thomas Madison and Anthony Gholson entered into articles of agreement, to the following effect: "Articles of agreement between Thomas Madison of the one part, and Anthony Gholson of the other, witnesseth, that the said Madison has sold to the said Gholson, one thousand five hundred acres of land, in the Kentucky country, in Lincoln county, located by Gabriel Madison, to be of equal value and quality of any that is laid for the said Madison; if the said Gholson does not choose any that is now located, and as the said Madison has other warrants not located, he is to have 1,500 acres of any that may hereafter be laid, to be of equal value and quality of any that may be so laid." The said Madison is to give land clear from the claim of any individual, and the said Gholson to run the risk of the claim of congress, or any other government. The land is to be surveyed at the expense of said Madison. It is the meaning of both parties, that the 1,500 acres is to be part of the land warrants sent to Gabriel Madison, and which he himself, or any other person for him, has located, for the consideration of a wagon and hind gears, my choice of twenty of his hogs, and ten acres of rye, on Moses Tully's land and Mr. Robinson's." This writing was signed and sealed by the parties, on the day of its date. On the 2d day of October, 1782, Gholson sold 400 acres out of the 1,500 to Robert Baker, and gave a separate writing binding himself to convey it, according to his article of agreement with Thomas Madison. On the 28th of August, 1784, Gholson assigned the whole of his article with Thomas Madison for the 1,500 acres, to Caleb Wallace, reciting in the assignment, that Baker was to have his 400 acres out of it, by Wallace's permission. On the 18th of September, 1799, Wallace, Baker and Gholson united in commencing their suit in chancery, against the executors and heirs of said Thomas Madison for a specific performance of the contract. As to the 400 acres belonging to Baker, it is charged in the bill, that it has been surveyed and laid off to him, part of a tract of 1,532 acres, in the name of said Thomas Madison, and that he had taken possession of it, with the assent of all concerned. As to the remaining 1,100 acres, belonging to Wallace, it is objected that the residue of the tract, out of which Baker has taken his share, does not comply with or come up to the contract, because it is covered by others, and of no value; that the warrants sent to Gabriel Madison can not be found, and that there is not land to fulfill the article. A conveyance is prayed for, to be made to Baker, for his 400 acres, and also to Wallace for the 1,100 acres, if such tract can be shown, if not, then the value of the land. One of the executors of Madison answered the bill, exhibiting the patent out of which Baker's 400 acres was taken, and insists that the residue thereof ought to satisfy Wallace or that there is land belonging to the estate to do so. The heirs, or some of them answered by special guardian. *3 On the destruction of the district court, this cause appeared on the docket of the general court. How it came there, the record is silent. At the December term, 1807, of the general court, a decree is entered by consent of all the parties, in favor of Baker, giving him the 400 acres which had been surveyed for him, and providing that the cause should progress as to the 1,100 acres, Wallace's interest, without any prejudice thereto. The cause progressed as between Wallace and Gholson on one side, and Madison's representatives on the other, till at the May term, 1810, of the general court, a jury was empannelled, and charged by the court to inquire into the value of the 1,100 acres of land, at the death of the said Thomas Madison, and they found the value to be 5,000 dollars, and a final decree in favor of Wallace was entered accordingly. Afterwards at the August term, 1823, in the general court, an order to this effect appears in the cause: "On the motion of the defendants, by their counsel, it is ordered that the decree heretofore pronounced in this cause be opened and set aside; and leave is given the defendant, Agatha Bayer, to file her answer, which is filed accordingly, and the court dispensing with bond for compliance with the decree, because it appears that the former decree has been satisfied." The answer to Henry Bayer, and Agatha, his wife, was accordingly filed and the cause appears to have remained on the docket of the court below, till the August term, 1826, when the court appears to have rescinded the order of August, 1823, and to have stricken the cause from the docket, as to Wallace and Gholson, and the defendants excepted. The executors and heirs of Madison, have issued their writ of error, to reverse the original decree, and also a writ of error to reverse the latter order of the court, of August term, 1826; and both these writs are now the subject of consideration. The first question presented to us, on the writ, to reverse the original decree, is, that the general court had not jurisdiction of the cause, and that the proceedings so far as they have progressed in that court are coram non judice. The pleadings do not contain those allegations of the residence of the parties, which is necessary to give jurisdiction to the general court, and if the question of jurisdiction is to rest on that point, the decree could not be sustained. See Ormsby v. Lynch, Littell's Select Cases, 303. But at that time the general court might take jurisdiction, by consent of parties, when the title of bonds for land came in question, as is the case here. That consent, it is true, is required to be in writing, and signed by the parties. But it has been held by this court, in the case of Fowler vs. Halbert, III. Bibb, 384, that consent given of record, could and would answer as a substitute for the writing, executed by the parties, and certainly no stronger substitute could be given of record, than is here given. This contract is an entire thing; Gholson, Baker and Wallace all properly joined in the bill, and Baker and Wallace, after a decision on the whole contract, could each draw their respective portions. Here the parties have, by consent, disposed of 400 acres, part of the contract, by a decree, leaving the rest unprejudiced, for further litigation. All must be heard and decided in the same court. This decree, as to Baker, is valid, and is not before us. If we were to turn Wallace's part of the contract out of court, for want of jurisdiction, we should split, one cause of suit in two, and render it difficult for Wallace's representatives to proceed, in any other tribunal, with part of the controversy there. The consent here is full, that a part of the contract shall be settled in the general court, and the other part progress without prejudice. The consent is, therefore, complete. *4 When title or bounds come in controversy, consent of parties of record, will give jurisdiction to general court. The next questions affect the regularity of the proceedings. Anne Madison, one of the heirs of Thomas Madison, deceased, it is suggested, had departed this life, and the cause, as to her, is ordered to abate, and it is insisted that the cause ought to have been revived as to her representatives. On the other hand, it is contended that as she was one of the heirs, her interest went, as a matter of course, to her co-heirs, and, therefore, a revivor was unnecessary, as she died an infant, and with her name unchanged, she could not be presumed to have either had issue or to have made a will. We conceive that a bill of revivor, on her death ought to have been filed, or that better cause should have been shown for dispensing therewith than can be gathered from the record. Suggestion, on record, of death of female heir of def't. who retained her patronymic name to her death, does not dispense with necessity of revivor against her representatives. It does not appear that she was an infant; therefore, she might have died with a will. Moreover her interest in the land in question, or in the estate of her father, depended upon his will, which is not before us, and it might have passed by that instrument; otherwise, on her death. Besides, her personal estate, if she had any, ought first to have been subjected to this demand, if it is to be converted into money, and her personal representatives, if she had such estate, might, in that event, become accessory. Knowing so little as this record presents, with regard to her circumstances at the time of her death, or what became of that portion of her estate, which passed from her father, or that which she otherwise held, we can not say that this error is not well assigned. Guardian, ad litem, should be appointed by order of court. Again, George Madison has answered as special guardian for the infant heirs of Thomas Madison. There is no order of court appointing him to that office, and we can not tell how many of the heirs were infants, if any, by any thing apparent in the record. Number of infant heirs, should appear from record. As the cause must be opened for these irregularities, and be sent back again, to commence at an early stage of it, and as Madison's representatives, by prosecting their writ of error here, will all have appeared, in the cause, so that further proceedings to bring them before the court, will be unnecessary, and as the merits of the case may be essentially changed, and even the land itself, or a specific performance of the contract, may again occur, we do not deem it necessary to say anything on the main question; and that is the criterion of damages, for the breach of the contract, which has appeared to be the main object of the writ of error. If all representatives of def't. below, tho' not properly before inferior court, prosecute writ of error, further process to bring them before inferior court, on return of cause, will be unnecessary. *5 We shall only remark, that we can not, under any state of case, see the propriety of fixing the value of the land, at the death of Thomas Madison, the covenantor, as the proper criterion, as the court below has done. If the case should be stripped of all fraud on his part, and that of his representatives then, according to a well settled course of adjudication, the criterion of damages for a breach, would be the value of the land at the date of the contract, and that value to be ascertained, if practicable, by the evidence of what was given for it, with interest thereon. On the contrary, if the covenantee was guilty of fraud, in making the contract, or he, or his representatives since his death, should have fraudulently disabled themselves to fulfill it, then the increased value at the date of the assignment ought to be adopted. If vendor is unable to convey and has been guilty of no fraud, criterion of damages, is value of land, at date of contract, to be ascertained by purchase money, and interest thereon. But, if vendor has been guilty of fraud, then increased value of land at date of assessment, is measure of damages. In settling this controversy after its return to the court below, great difficulties may arise, after so great lapse of time, which has swept from existence, those who are acquainted with the circumstances as well as the parties thereto, and much of that time has passed, since the decree of the court below, which has now to be reversed. Aware of this, the defendants in error have pleaded the statute of limitations; but this has been overruled, because, at the date of the decree, one of the plaintiffs in error was, and still is, a feme covert, to-wit: Mrs. Bayer, a daughter of the covenantor, Thomas Madison, because as the law stood at the date of the decree, if any of the parties labor under disability, the right of the whole was saved. Since then the law has been altered, and now, by the construction of this court, all the parties plaintiff, must, at the time of the decree, be under disability, or the rights of none are saved. This case furnishes a lively demonstration of the policy of the alterations of the law, as well as the propriety of the construction of the amendatory act, adopted by this court. For we can not help foreseeing the inconvenience, danger and even distress which may ensue to some of the parties concerned, by disturbing this decree at this late hour. But, however, great the evils are, which may arise from it this court, not having the power of legislation in its hands, can not prevent or avoid them. All pl'tffs. in writ of error, must, at rendition of decree, labor under disabilities, or rights of none, are saved out of statute of limitation. Aliter formerly. As to the writ of error to reverse the order of the court, which struck the cause from the docket, by its last order, but little need be said. There was no power in the court to open and set aside its decree, by the order of August, 1823, because the cause was long out of court, and the decree could not be again altered in that tribunal. It is in vain to say that Bayer and wife were non-residents, for they did not appear in that character; and if they had, the seven years allowed by statute, within which time they could contest the decree, had expired, and one of several defendants in a joint claim, ought not to have been permitted to disturb the decree. *6 Court has no power to open decree, 13 years after its rendition, even to let in answer of defendant, who was, at its rendition and during whole 13 years, a nonresident feme covert. In the first writ of error to the original decree, the decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion. In the last writ to reverse the order of the court, striking the cause from the docket, it must be affirmed with costs. Denny and Mayes, for plaintiff; Crittenden for defendants. Note. Chief Justice Bibb did not sit in the case. Ky.App. 1828. Madison's Heirs v. Wallace's Ex'rs 2 J.J.Marsh. 581, 25 Ky. 581, 1828 WL 2320 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
