(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 253,  17 Ky. 253 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1550 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Head, &c. v. Perry, &c. Dec. 20, 1824. *1 Decrees, Process, Slaves, Executors, &c., Trustees, Distributees, Legatees, Fraud, Injunctions, Damages, Statutes, Equity Jurisdiction, Hire, Rents. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 453(3) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k453 Judgment 162k453(3) k. Record and Amendment. Most Cited  Cases Distributees cannot have a revision of a decree against an administrator, where there is no circumstance showing that he was guilty of fraud or gross negligence in defending the suit, and where they cannot show that the defense which he failed to make was good. Judgment 228 k 464 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(B) Jurisdiction and Proceedings 228k464 k. Relief Awarded. Most Cited Cases The statute giving 10 per cent. damages on the dissolution of injunctions against judgments at law does not apply to injunctions against decrees in chancery. Judgment 228 k 688 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k688 k. Executors or Administrators and Devisees,  Legatees, Heirs, or Distributees. Most Cited Cases Distributees are concluded by a decree between the administrator and an adverse claimant as to the title of slaves held by the intestate. Replevin 335 k 76 335 Replevin 335IX Damages 335k74 Elements and Measure of Compensation 335k76 k. Detention of Property. Most Cited  Cases Hire cannot be recovered for the use of slaves retained in possession, between the date of a decree in favor of plaintiff in replevin, against an administrator for the surrender of them, and the final decree dismissing a bill brought by distributees, impeaching it as fraudulent, enjoining its execution, and seeking to reinstate the title. Equity 150 k 446 150 Equity 150XI Bill of Review 150k444 Grounds 150k446 k. Errors and Irregularities. Most Cited  Cases Where a bill is taken pro confesso as to certain defendants, it is not sufficient ground for a review that they have no recollection of the service of the subpoena on them, and that they confided in another party to defend the suit. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. In the year 1784, Benjamin Head made his will and therein devised all his estate, of every kind, to his wife, during her life or widowhood, and on her death or marriage, his land, a negro man slave, and a few other articles were to pass to his son Benjamin, and his stock and household furniture were to be equally divided between his son Francis, and his daughter, Polly Perry; and he also made his wife and Benjamin Head, executors. *2 During the widowhood of his wife, she, out of the proceeds of the stock and household furniture, bequeathed to Francis and Polly, purchased a female negro slave, professing that the purchase was for the benefit of the legatees to whom the consideration paid for the slave, belonged. Some years afterwards, she sold and conveyed this slave to her son and co-executor, Benjamin Head; and she thereafter died, and after her death, Benjamin Head, the younger, died also, leaving this slave and her increase, now a large family, as part of his estate. The children of Francis Head and Polly Perry filed their bill against the administrators of Benjamin Head the younger, to recover this family of slaves; and some of the complainants in that suit were successful, and others were defeated, because they had received their proportion of the inventory of their grandfather's estate, as will be seen by the two decisions in that suit, the first in 1 Marsh. 46, and the second in 3 Marsh. 112. In that suit the administrators were made parties, and the heirs of Benjamin Head the younger, were not parties, except two of them, who were then charged to have the slaves in possession. After these decisions, the heirs of Benjamin Head the younger, all united in this bill, and admit that the slave, who is the mother of the rest, was purchased by their grandmother, for her children, Francis and Polly, and out of their means, and designed to pass in the same way as the personal estate which was employed in the purchase, was directed to pass by the will. But they charge, that their ancestor, Benjamin Head the younger, as executor of Benjamin Head the elder, paid the whole of the children of Francis and Polly, their full proportions of the estate bequeathed to them, without any deduction for the price of the slave purchased, whereby the title of the whole of them was extinguished in said slaves; but that Alexander Macey, the acting administrator of their immediate ancestor, Benjamin Head the younger, had failed to set up this matter in bar of the claim, in the former suit, as to part of them, although he held the receipts; that, when hire was charged against the estate of their ancestor, and a deduction allowed for raising the young and nursing the infirm, he failed to make proof of that deduction, and that he managed the suit fraudulently, and that there was collusion between him and the children of Francis and Polly, and that it was, by concert, so managed that they lost the suit. They obtained an injunction, restraining the division and possession of the slaves directed by that decree, and enjoining the money decreed for the hire, and prayed to be permitted to assert their right to the slaves, and to be exonerated from the hire, and that the slaves might be decreed to them. The court below dissolved the injunction, and dismissed the bill with costs; and to reverse this decree, this writ of error is prosecuted. (1.) As to two of the complainants, who were made parties to the original suit as defendants, there is scarcely a pretext for their claim in this. That decision is as complete a bar, as to them, as the decision of a court of competent jurisdiction, on the same point, could be. *3 (1) That the defendants in chancery do not recollect the service of the subpoena, and the bill was taken as confessed against them, and that they depended on the other parties to defend the suit, is no pretext for a bill to re-investigate the matters of the decree. It is true, the bill in that suit, as to them, was taken pro confesso; and the only ground now set forth, resembling matter for a review, is, that they have now no knowledge or recollection of the service of the subpoena. They are, however, not bold enough to contest the service by a flat denial; but rather make an apology for not attending to it, by pleading their confidence in Alexander Macey, the administrator. Their excuse, therefore, is wholly insufficient to warrant a retrial of the same matter. Their only ground, then, must be, the fraud and collusion of the administrator in making his defense, which will be hereafter considered. (2.) On the part of the other complainants, it is contended, that as they were not parties, the decree can not affect them; and, therefore, they are authorized to assert their claim without prejudice. (2) Slaves are assets in the hands of the administrator, and he represents them as completely with regard to controversies concerning their title, as he does any other chattels. It is true, they were not parties to that controversy; but the administrator of their ancestor's estate was the main and efficient defendant, and the operation of the decree upon their interests, must rest on the question, how far a decree against the administrator, touching the personalty, will bind the distributee? It is true, the estate in question is slaves; but they are still assets in the hands of an administrator, and he represents them as completely as chattels, with regard to controversies of this nature. The legal title and legal remedies belonging to chattel interests, are in the administrator. Recoveries against him, for debts, reach all chattels, and he can sell them, and the title of the purchaser is conclusive against the distributee. See  Stamps v. Beatty, Hardin 337. An adjudication on the title to slaves, between the administrator only and an adverse claimant, is conclusive, against the distributees in any future contest, though they were not parties. If the administrator is barred at law, the title of the distributee is forever gone. If titles to personalty and slaves, contested with, and settled in suits by and against administrators or executors, can be reinvestigated at the suit of the distributees or legatees, and the adjudication in the former controversy proves nothing, great uncertainty must prevail, in the title of chattels, throughout society. Every judgment rendered against him, to discharge which the chattels were expended, would be liable to be overhaled at the instance of the distributee and legatee. In short, the very design of the office, is to appoint a title-holder, with whom the rights of the decedent may be contested; and useless would be the appointment, if these contests have no weight. *4 Title to personalty and slaves, contested with and settled in suits by or against administrators or executors, can not be reinvestigated at the suit of the distributees or legatees.--Argu. The administrator is a trustee. There must be a privity between him and the distributee, and when the latter succeeds to the estate, he must claim under the former. Hence, the adjudication between the administrator and others, even where the distributee is not a party, must be conclusive against the latter, in a future contest. We admit, that express adjudications on this point are hard to be found, and in the case of Mason's advisees v. Peters' administrators, 1 Mun. 437, it is said to be a point not decided; and in that case it was very properly decided, that a judgment against an executor, was no evidence against a devisee, in a contest to reach the real estate, a fund which the executor did not represent. We, however, find the case embraced by the principles of evidence, and conceive that the distributees had, in this case, no right to enter into the question of title to these slaves, as if it never had been decided. (3.) If they succeed, therefore, it must be by impeaching the decree for fraud and collusion practised by the parties to the suit. It is readily admitted, that a decree may be impeached for fraud, by a proper bill for that purpose.   Carneal v. Wilson, 3 Litt. Rep. 80. (3) A decree may be impeached for fraud in the parties to it, by a proper bill for the purpose.--Ar. On this point, however, they have failed in fact. The fraud and collusion is flatly denied on both sides, and it is not shown that the receipts relied on as omitted to be used by the administrator in the former suit, apply to the transaction, and it is denied that they do. It is not sufficient for the distributees to set aside a decree as fraudulent against the administrator for slaves, and to permit them to re-investigate the title, that he had before that suit, purchased the interest of one of the claimants, where it appears he defended the suit obstinately, though not judiciously, and flatly denies all fraud, and there is no other evidence conducing to prove it. The only circumstance conducing to show any thing like it, is, the administrator, before that suit was commenced, had purchased the interest of one of the claimants. This he seems to have done with his own money and it does not appear to have influenced the defense which he made in his fiduciary character. The defense he made was obstinate, if not judicious, and we do not conceive that this circumstance alone is sofficient to convict him of fraud and collusion; and as to the opposite party in these suits, there is no pretence for saying they were guilty of any. (4.) We pass to the claim against the administrator for his negligence in making defense. (4) For distributees to make the administrator liable for negligence in the defense of a suit against him, it is not only necessary to prove that he was guilty of gross negligence or bad faith, but that the defense they charge him with neglecting to make, would have availed. *5 It must be admitted, that his defense, as to some part of it, does appear not to have been well timed; but there is no circumstance conducing to show that he acted with bad faith, or such gross negligence as to subject him to the price of the slaves, without which he can not be made liable, according to the principles recognized in the case of  Thomas v. White, &c. 3 Litt. Rep. 177. Besides, it was incumbent on the complainants in this suit to have shown that the defense which he failed to make was good, which they have not done. The court was, therefore, correct in dismissing the bill. (5.) It is now contended, that the court erred in giving ten percentum damages on the dissolution of the injunction. (5) The statute giving ten per centum damages on the dissolution of injunctions against judgments, does not apply to injunctions against decrees in chancery; therefore, on the dissolution of such injunctions, no damages can be given. Two of the complainants were the parties against whom the former decree was rendered in favor of some of the defendants in this suit; the proper parties were, therefore, before the court, and the objection to this part of the decree must rest on the proper construction of the act of assembly which authorizes the ten per centum to be given. This is a decree in equity, enjoined by a subsequent bill; and is a decree within the terms of the act? The expressions of the act are: "If the injunction is dissolved in whole or in part, the complainant shall pay ten per centum, exclusive of legal interest, upon the sum for which it shall be dissolved, besides costs; and the clerk of the court in which the judgment at law was recovered, shall issue an execution for the same, when he issues an execution upon the said judgment." 2 Dig. L. K. 670. As the definitive, "the injunction," is used, we are necessarily led to enquire what injunction was intended. The former part of the section answers the question. "No injunction shall be granted to any judgment at law." "No injunction shall be granted until the party shall release all error in the proceedings at law which are prayed to be enjoined." This, then, is the kind of injunction to judgments or proceedings at law to which the penalty of ten per centum is attached, and decrees in chancery are not included. It may be said, that decrees are within the spirit of the act; but if it be conceded, for argument's sake, that this is to be construed as a remedial, and not a penal statute, we could not still bring decrees in chancery within it, especially as the remedy given is an innovation upon the established rules of equity. So much of the decree, therefore, as gives ten per centum, is deemed erroneous. (6.) Other questions in the decree present themselves. The defendants, or some of them, in an answer in the nature of a cross bill, charge, that the complainants, or some of them, and Macey, and the administratrix, had held and detained the possession of the slaves, ever since the final decree in the former suit; and they pray that they may answer these charges, and be made accountable for the hire, ever since the hire was settled by the former decree. The court accordingly decreed the hire, and the propriety of that decree is questioned by the assignment of error. *6 (6) The chancellor would not, perhaps, have jurisdiction of a claim for the hire of slaves retained in defendant's possession, pending a further litigation, from the date of the assessment of their hire in the former suit, where it is set up in an original bill--Ar. The right to recover damages for the detention of an article, after a decision of a court of law or equity, determining the right and closing the assessment of value and hire, until the time of the judgment, and an appeal from that decision, is a question that might be frequently expected to present itself, and yet no case has occurred, since the origin of this state, or, indeed, in the decisions of England and Virginia, prior thereto, known to this court. But a defendant to an original bill may, by cross bill, set up claims touching the subject of dispute, and have them adjusted in equity, though originally cognizable only in a court of law--Arg. The first doubt which presents itself, is, whether the parties here had not a complete remedy at law, and ought, therefore, to have been compelled to resort to it. If this was an original bill on the part of the defendants below, this question might arise; but, as the claim is set up by way of cross bill, after being first impleaded in equity by their adversary, they are not under the same necessity of showing matter to sustain the jurisdiction of the court; and it is a rule, that defendants to an original bill may, by a cross bill, set up legal claims touching the subject of dispute, and be allowed to adjust them in a court of equity, without being subject to have such claims rejected, because they were cognizable in a court of law. Mit. 76, Cowp. 86; Ford and Warren v. Sproule and Co. 2 Marsh. 528. If, then, the defendants below have any remedy for the demand, they might assert it in this mode, and the question must rest on their right to assert and recover the demand. Hire can not be recovered for the use of slaves retained in possession, between the date of a decree in favor of an adverse claimant, against an administrator, for the surrender of them, and the final decree dismissing a bill brought by distributees, impeaching it as fraudulent, and enjoining its execution, and seeking to reinstate the title. The claim to such accruing damages may seem equitable, on the first blush; still, however, such claims, although apparently equitable in particular cases, may have an injurious tendency upon the general good, if tolerated. Not only the detention of property recovered in an action of detinue, and by the decree of the chancellor, presents this claim; but all judgments for money, suspended during an appeal or injunction, present claims resting on preciselv the same principles; yet no case can be produced, of the allowance of interest for the detention thereof, even in a court of equity, and such a claim has been refused at the present term, in the case of M'Millan v. Scott. It is true, that the legislature, by a statute, in the case of appeals from, and injunctions on judgments founded upon contract have allowed interest, but have not extended it to other cases. This, however, shows what the law was before, and goes far to prove that there was no such remedy before, and suggests a doubt of the propriety of this court giving a remedy in such a case, without a precedent, further than the will of the legislature shall direct. *7 The same may be said to be the case with regard to the rents of lands, the possession of which is held after judgment or decree. After the proceedings under the occupying claimant laws have been closed, it has not been practised, to send other commissioners to add accruing rents, except where the legislature has directed it; and this argues the propriety of leaving such cases to legislative interposition. Then no cases will come in, except those which the legislature shall allow when, if the allowance is made on a supposed existing principle of common law or rule of equity, it must draw with it a numerous class of cases, not easy to be recounted. There can be no recovery, either at law or in equity, for the detention of property after the hire, rents or damages are assessed, however long the final determination of the cause may be postponed by the delays of the judge, by appeals or injunction, except where specially provided by statute. For such a remedy there is, at common law, no precedent.--Arg. We well know, that time is often necessary for deliberation in the same court, between verdict and judgment, or the assesssment and report of commissioners, and the final decree in a chancery suit. Then, frequently, the most difficult questions occur, and a court of original jurisdiction may long deliberate, before it can come to a satisfactory conclusion. A special verdict, a demurrer to evidence, a point reserved, may furnish the subject of thought, from term to term. If accruing damages for detention are permissible, the court, in such case, for this delay, would have to issue a new venire, and add the accruing damages, which has never yet been done. No reason is perceived, why the equity and law is not as applicable to that case as the present. And if the party is not allowed such accruing damages in the same court, and his adversary has the right to the deliberation and decision of this court, all in the same cause and same system of courts, we see no reason why the claim should not be disallowed in one case as well as the other. The law has never yet tolerated the recovery, and shall we begin it now? Is not the absence of a precedent for such recovery, a strong argument that the law is against it? For an application of the above principle to rents of land pending an appeal, see M'Clanahan's heirs v. Henderson's heirs, the next succeeding case. Precedent is not wanting in support of this opinion. In the case of Alderson v. Biggers and others, 4 Hen. and Mun. 470, the judgment in an action of detinue for slaves, was suspended, in passing through the different courts, for eight years, and the execution thereof afterwards obstructed by the obstinate and perverse conduct of the defendants. The superior court of chancery decided against the claim for accruing damages because the remedy, if any, was cognizable at law. The action at law was afterwards brought, and the district court decided that the action would not lie, and that decision, on argument and deliberation, was affirmed by the court of appeals of Virginia. 4 Mun. 528. *8 The learned judge who delivered the opinion, observes, that the case must have occurred a thousand times, and yet no recovery in such case was ever had. From this he draws an argument against the existence of the right. This case is in point. It is true, we do not view ourselves as concluded by that decision; but, for the same reasons, we deem it prudent to adopt it, under similar circumstances, and thus to close the flood gate of litigation, in numerous similar cases, which a contrary decision would open. The decrees of the court below must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions there to dismiss the bill and cross bill, without costs on either side. Sharp, attorney general, for plaintiffs; Todd, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Head v. Perry 1 T.B.Mon. 253, 17 Ky. 253, 1824 WL 1550 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
