(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 116,  19 Ky. 116 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1209 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Emerson v. Staton, &c. Nov. 17, 1825. *1 Jurisdiction. Discovery. Executors. Decrees. Slaves. Compact with Virginia. ERROR TO THE BARREN CIRCUIT; CHRISTOPHER TOMPKINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 524(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162XII Foreign and Ancillary Administration 162k524 Actions by Foreign Executors or Administrators 162k524(1) k. Rights of action and defenses. Most Cited  Cases An administrator de bonis non with the will annexed, appointed in Virginia since the separation of Kentucky from Virginia, where the will has been proved and recorded in the court before the separation, may, under the compact, sue in Kentucky for a slave brought here by defendant since that period. Descent and Distribution 124 k 76 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(A) Nature and Establishment of Rights in General 124k73 Title of Heirs or Distributees 124k76 k. Personal property. Most Cited  Cases An heir or distributee has no title, sufficient to sue for personal property or funds belonging to the estate, without the assent of the administrator. Descent and Distribution 124 k 91(2) 124 Descent and Distribution 124III Rights and Liabilities of Heirs and Distributees 124III(A) Nature and Establishment of Rights in General 124k88 Actions by Heirs or Distributees 124k91 Relating to Personal  Property 124k91(2) k. Refusal of administrator to sue or  collusion with third persons. Most Cited Cases Distributees will not be permitted to collect funds of the estate from the hands of strangers, unless they show the assent of the personal representative to such collection, or show that he causelessly withholds his assent. Showing the death of the administrator with the will annexed does not avail, as it does not follow that no administration de bonis non could be granted. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 24 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(A) Discovery in General 307Ak24 k. Discovery methods and procedure. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 127k19  Discovery) When a bill is filed for discovery and relief, seeking to withdraw from a court of law a matter of strict legal cognizance, it must show that the discovery sought is indispensable to the ends of justice, and that the facts as to which a discovery is sought cannot be proved otherwise than by defendant's answer. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. In the year 1789, John Staton, of Buckingham county, Virginia, made his last will and testament, which, on his death, was proved and recorded, in the same county, and the executors therein named not acting, letters of administration with the will annexed, were granted to Mary Staton, his widow, who afterwards intermarried with John Thurman. By said will, one-third of his estate, real and personal, was devised to his wife for life, and after her death, her share was to return to his estate. The residue of his estate not devised, was to be equally divided among his nine children, as they came of age. *2 Staton's will. His children filed this bill in chancery, charging that there was a negro slave named Phebe, belonging to said estate, who had now three children, and that the defendant (now appellant) had fraudulently and tortiously possessed himself of said slave Phebe and her children, and run them off to another country, where he held the children, alleging said Phebe was dead;-- that they had lately discovered where said slaves were, and had demanded them, and he had refused to surrender them, and that the widow, Mrs. Thurman, had departed this life a few months since. They prayed a decree for the slaves and an account of the hire. Allegations of the bill. The appellant answered, denying that he obtained the slaves which he held, fraudulently, and avers that he purchased them of another man for a valuable consideration; denies that he ever knew any thing of mother of the slaves having belonged to the Staton family, or any thing about the family, and requires proof of the allegations of their bill. He states, that long after his purchase, he heard of a claim set up by the Staton family, and was told, though he did not know the truth of it, that the slaves had belonged to the testator Staton, and were sold by his executors and administrators, to his widow, who had sold them to his vendor. Emerson's answer. The court below decreed the recovery of the slaves by the complainants, from which the defendant appealed. Decree of the circuit court. The first question here made is, that a court of chancery has no jurisdiction of the case, and that the remedy ought to have been at law, and that the suit ought to have been brought by the personal representative. To give chancery jurisdiction because of defect of proof, the fact sought to be discovered must rest exclusively in the knowledge of the defendant, and be susceptible of no other proof, and be se alleged.--Identity of slaves is not such a fact If the complainants below had the right to sue at law, there is nothing in the bill calculated to give the chancellor any jurisdiction of the case, except an allegation that the complainants can not establish the identity of the slaves, save by the aid of a discovery in a court of equity. Such attempts to translate the cognizance from a court of law to a court of equity, ought not be favored. It would be very easy to insert such allegations, to give the chancellor possession of the cause, contrary to the truth of the case. It is necessary to such translation of the jurisdiction, for the purpose of discovery only, that the facts, of which the discovery is sought, should rest exclusively in the knowledge of the defendant, and be susceptible of no other proof, and that should be alleged in the bill. This is not done in this case, and the facts from their very nature, are susceptible of other proof. This case is analogous in this respect, to that of Bullock, &c. v. Boyd, 2 Marsh. 322; and for the reasons there given, this point is against the appellees. *3 But we are not prepared to admit, that if the statements in this bill are true, that the complainants below could sue either at law or equity for the slaves. The statement is, that the defendant below tortiously and fraudulently run off these slaves, as taking them out of the estate before any distribution was made. If so, it is clear that the personal representative was the proper person to commence the suit, whether brought in chancery or at law. Creditors have an interest in the fund, and it ought to pass through the hands of the personal representative, and be mingled with the assets in his hands, and the distributees ought not to be permitted to collect the fund from the hands of strangers, except they shew the assent of the personal representative to such collection, whereby he would be charged with the fund, or by avering in a court of equity, that he causelessly withheld his assent, and neglected the pursuit himself, whereby the rights of the distributees would be prejudiced. Neither of these allegations are made here, and according to their own shewing, therefore, they had no right of suit. Devisees of the remainder in slaves, after the life estate to the widow is determined by her death, to maintain a suit for their recovery, must have the assent of the personal representative, or shew in chancery it is causelessly withheld. It is true they have alleged, that the widow of the testator is dead, and the will produced by them as part of their bill, shews that she took letters of administration with the will annexed. But it does not thence follow, that no administration de bonis non, could be granted. Shewing the death of the administrator with the will annexed, in such case, will not avail, for then there should be an administrator de bonis non, &c. It is true, according to their bill, the estate in suit was not in this country at the death of the testator, or at the date of the separation of this State from Virginia, and it has been brought here since. But, according to the decision of this court in the case of May's heirs v. Slaughter, 3 Marsh. 505, the county court of Buckingham, in the State of Virginia, who recorded this will anterior to the separation, and granted letters of administration, did not, by the separation of the two States, lose the juridiction over this State, and might proceed to make future grants of letters of administration which could operate here, by the terms of the compact between the two States. Of course, as there was no impediment existing to the appointment of another personal representative, the right of suit must remain with him, and can not be exercised by the distributees, under the allegations of the bill. An administrator de bonis non, appointed by the county court of Virginia, since the separation, with the will annexed, which had been proved and recorded in the court before the separation, may, under the compact, maintain a suit in this State, for slaves brought here by defendant since that period. *4 We have thus far confined ourselves to the face of the bill, and when we turn our eyes to the answer and the proof, we derive therefrom, no aid to the jurisdiction of the chancellor. The proof makes out a case wholly variant from the allegations of the bill. It there appears that the estate was distributed by the assent of the personal representative--that the mother of the slaves now in contest was assigned to the widow of the testator for life, and that her second husband sold said slave during the life of his wife, and his vendee again sold her to the present appellant, who removed the slave to Kentucky. And they have wholly failed to prove that the widow is dead, whereby her life estate would be terminated. Here the assent of the personal representative appears, and it is apparent that there was no necessity of calling to their aid, a supposed necessary discovery, to give jurisdiction to the chancellor, if the widow was dead, and if she was not, the suit was premature. Remainderman after a life estate, suing for slaves, must prove, if not admitted, the death of the tenant for life. Where the pretext for the jurisdiction is a discovery, and the fact sought fully appears by complainant's own proofs, he defeats himself. The decree must, therefore, be reversed, with cost, and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill with costs. Monroe, for plaintiff; Bibb, for defendants. Ky.App. 1825. Emerson v. Staton 3 T.B.Mon. 116, 19 Ky. 116, 1825 WL 1209 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
