(Cite as: 5 Litt. 316,  15 Ky. 316 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1440 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Fowke v. Darnall. Jun. 8, 1824. *1 FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Acknowledgment 12 k 17 12 Acknowledgment 12II Taking and Certificate 12k14 Authority to Take 12k17 k. In Other States. Most Cited  Cases A power of attorney, acknowledged before a justice of the peace in another state, and certified by him and the clerk of the county court, is not properly authenticated, so as to be admitted to record in the state. Adverse Possession 20 k 7(2) 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(A) Acquisition of Rights by Prescription in General 20k5 Property Subject to Prescription 20k7 Public Property in  General 20k7(2) k. Public Lands in General. Most Cited  Cases One cannot be considered as having been in adverse possession of land against a claimant under a patent of the commonwealth, during any time previous to the issuing of such patent. Adverse Possession 20 k 63(5) 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(F) Hostile Character of Possession 20k59 Possession Consistent with That of Another, and  Possession Becoming Adverse After Amicable Entry 20k63 By Vendor or  Purchaser 20k63(5) k. By Purchaser and His Privies in General.  Most Cited Cases A vendee in possession under a bond for a conveyance or a contract to purchase cannot claim under the statute or to hold adversely. Appeal and Error 30 k 696(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(M) Questions Presented for Review 30k693 Sufficiency of Evidence 30k696 Necessity of Recital or Certificate That All  the Evidence Is Included 30k696(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The sufficiency of the evidence cannot be considered on appeal where the record does not affirmatively show that it contains all the evidence. Ejectment 142 k 16 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k16 k. Prior Possession of Plaintiff. Most Cited Cases Where one in peaceable possession of land is ousted by a bare trespasser, who enters without claim of title, he may recover in ejectment on proof of prior possession, though such possession was not held for the time and in the manner required for a prescriptive title. Ejectment 142 k 16 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k16 k. Prior Possession of Plaintiff. Most Cited Cases Where color of title is shown on both sides, plaintiff cannot recover on bare possession alone. Ejectment 142 k 25(2) 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k22 Defenses 142k25 Title or Right of Possession of Third  Person 142k25(2) k. Right to Show Outstanding Title. Most Cited  Cases When defendant in ejectment is in possession under color of title or right, he can avail himself of an outstanding title as a defense. Ejectment 142 k 86(3) 142 Ejectment 142III Pleading and Evidence 142k86 Presumptions and Burden of Proof 142k86(3) k. Title. Most Cited Cases In ejectment, where there is an absence of proof of title on either side, a presumption of title in favor of the first possessor may be indulged. Evidence 157 k 370(5) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k370 Necessity in  General 157k370(5) k. Proof of Authority to Execute. Most  Cited Cases A deed executed under a foreign power of attorney, which was not entitled to record here, for want of sufficient authentication, is inadmissible as evidence of title. TRIPLETT and TALBOT for Fowke; HAGGIN and HUSTON for Darnall. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 This is an ejectment. There was first a verdict for the plaintiff, which the court below set aside, and granted a new trial, and on the second trial a verdict and judgment were rendered for the defendant below, from which the lessors of the plaintiff have appealed. A new trial will not be awarded by the court of appeals, on the ground that the verdict was contrary to evidence, unless the bill of exceptions states that it contains the whole of the evidence. It is assigned for error, that the court below erred in granting a new trial. It was moved for, on the grounds that the verdict was against law and evidence; that the instructions of the court to the jury during the progress of the first trial were erroneous; and also on the ground of surprise, attempted to be proved by affidavits filed. On which of these grounds, the court below relied, in granting the new trial, we are not informed. We observe that the bill of exceptions theretaken, although it gives us a long history of the testimony, does not declare that it contains the whole of it, and, therefore, we can not presume that the court below did wrong, and we shall not further notice this point. After the last trial, a motion was made by the plaintiff for a new trial, and overruled, and the opinion excepted to, and this exception likewise, or any other, does not profess to contain the whole evidence, and we shall, therefore, confine ourselves to the legal question made and decided by the court during the progress of the trial. A power of attorney acknowledged before a justice of the peace in another state, and certified by him and the clerk of the county court, under the seal of the court, is not properly authenticated to be admitted to record in this state. The lessors of the plaintiff proved that an early patent issued to Thomas Ransdale, for 1,000 acres, covering the land in dispute; that Ransdale resided in Virginia; that a certain George Fowke, at the first settlement of that part of this country where the patent lay, in the year 1791 or 1792, entered and settled both himself and others on the tract, claiming the whole of it as his own, and representing that he held the bond of Ransdale for a conveyance thereof, and shewed a writing purporting to be such bond; that after a short period, he also got a paper purporting to be a deed from Ransdale, but the time for recording it had expired. He then, as he said, got a second or third, and still before the deeds arrived, or the papers purporting to be deeds, the time for recording had elapsed, and at length he procured, as he represented, Thomas Ransdale to make a letter of attorney to Cuthbert Combs of this country, authorizing him to convey. A letter of attorney was produced and offered in evidence, dated in 1795; but it was acknowledged in Virginia, before one justice of the peace, and certified by him, and the clerk of the court of the county certified his office under the seal of the court. This letter was produced to the proper court in this state, and there admitted to record on the credit of these testimonials. On the same authentication it was offered as evidence in this cause, and rejected as not sufficiently proved. We would here dispose of this question, by remarking that we see no impropriety in this decision. The letter of attorney was not so authenticated, as to entitle it to be recorded according to the laws of this state, and it, there fore, could not be given in evidence as a recorded instrument, and no other proof of its execution was offered. The plaintiffs next offered in evidence a conveyance of the land, purporting to be executed in the name of Ransdale, the patentee, by the said Cuthbert Combs, his attorney in fact. This deed was properly acknowledged by the supposed agent, and recorded in the proper court. As the court below had rejected the letter of attorney, it rejected this deed also, as incompetent to prove anything, or for any purpose, even the extent of claim. We perceive no injury to the plaintiffs, resulting from this decision. *3 A deed executed under such power of attorney, can not be admitted as evidence to show title. A plaintiff in ejectment may, in some cases, recover on a bare possession only, without showing title, as where there has been an actual ouster of the tenant, or against a trespasser without colour of title. Where there is an absence of proof of title on either side, a presumption of title in favor of the first possessor, may be indulged. A holding of land under a bond from the patentee, can not be considered as adverse thereto. Fowke, however, still continued to reside on this tract with his family, and to sell off and convey parcels thereof to others, until the year 1806, when he executed a conveyance of the residue to his two sons, then infants, residing in his family, who are the lessors of the plaintiff, and separated from his family, and went to Virginia, avowing his intention never to return, where credible report has said he died in 1810 or 1811. His wife and children continued to reside on the land until she died in the year 1810, when the family broke up; but the farm in contest remained in the possession of a man who had married one of the daughters, and of a tenant, who rented from the wife of Fowke, until the close of 1811, when William Chiles, who claimed the land by virtue of a patent issued to John Fowke, in the year 1810, entered upon the land, as no body resided thereon at the time, and sold and conveyed it to the present tenants, who hold under him. At the time of the entry of Chiles, and those claiming under him, the two lessors of the plaintiff were bound to trades, and one of them came of age shortly before the commencement of this suit, and the other during its pendency. The farm or portion of the 1,000 acres in controversy, is the original settlement of Fowke. The right of entry on land accrues only with the emanation of the grant, and then the statute commences running. Courts will not permit persons who come into possession wrongfully, to protect themselves under an outstanding title with which they are unconnected; but persons coming into possession rightfully, may protect themselves by showing an outstanding elder title. The counsel for the lessors of the plaintiff, then moved a train of instructions, some of which were given and others refused, and we shall not notice them in detail. They are certainly more numerous than necessary, and bear the marks of a mind laboring with difficulty to reach the legal question in controversy, and still doubting whether this or that form would do it or intending to embarrass the cause and ensnare the court below; and in this shape they can not be entitled to high consideration, either in that court or in this. Add to this, that some of them are made in language almost unintelligible. Some which were given, were given rightfully, and others, from the state in which the record appears, might have been given or refused, perhaps with impunity. Two of the questions made, however, one on the side of the plaintiff, and the other of the defendants, on which the cause appears to have essentially turned, deserve our consideration. The evidence conduced to show, that twenty years' possession was complete in George Fowke and his family, before the entry of the present tenants. The plaintiff moved the court to instruct the jury, in substance, that the lessors of the plaintiff were entitled to recover on a less possession than twenty years, against those who had thus entered, even if the twenty years should not be found by them. The court overruled this application, and instructed that twenty years' continuance of the possession by Fowke and those claiming under him, was necessary, and they could not recover upon less time. *4 The court also instructed the jury, on the application of the defendants, that if the lessors or their grantor, had occupied the land in controversy, twenty years under Ransdale's patent, by bond only from him, still said possession was amicable with Ransdale's patent, and inured to its benefit, and was not adverse thereto, and, therefore, could not enable the lessors to recover, and that the patent of Ransdale itself, was a bar to their recovery. These two decisions bore hard against their recovery. The first simply affirms, that they could not recover against the present tenants on a less time than twenty years' possession, and the second, that if they had that length of time, the patent under which they had held, prevented their receiving the benefit of it. We shall consider these two questions in the order in which we have stated them. As to the first, we have no doubt, that there are cases where a plaintiff in ejectment may recover on a bare possession only, such as where there has been an actual disseizin or ouster of the tenant, and even where there has not been such ouster, and the defendant appears to be a trespasser without colour of title. The supreme court of New York, has carried this principle as far, if not farther than the principles of the common law will permit. See Adams on Ejectment, 29. This principle may apply in cases where there is an absence of proof of title on either side. There it can not be improper to indulge a presumption of title in favor of the first possessor. We are, however, unwilling to extend the rules to a case where there is proof of title; and here, if there had been no proof of the patent of Ransdale, Fowke having acquired a patent from the commonwealth, it gave him a right of entry on ground not theretofore granted. The time which Fowke or those holding under him, had held possession, could not run against the commonwealth, as was held by this court in the case of  Chiles v. Calk, 4 Bibb 554, and the patent would confer a right of entry. If then, there had been proof of Fowke's patent alone, it would have been improper to have given the first instruction. But by showing the patent of Ransdale, it was proved that the patent of Fowke conferred no right of entry. This, however, could not help the plaintiff's case; for while they thereby stripped Fowke's patent of its authority to enter, they brought in their way another difficulty, and that is the second question above proposed; but it clearly did not still warrant the first instruction asked, and the court did not err in refusing it; for, however applicable the principle might be in other cases, it did not apply to this, where there was a colour of title shown on both sides. As to the second question made, the court was no doubt correct in saying that the possession of Fowke under Ransdale, without conveyance from him, did not take away from Ransdale the right of entry; and the inquiry is, ought the defendants to be permitted to avail themselves of this same patent as an outstanding title, to bar the very persons who had held under it? Courts, in modern times, have leaned considerably against permitting a defendant who came in by wrong, from protecting that wrong by the titles of others, with which they were unconnected. That the tenants, or those under whom they hold, and who came in under the patent of Fowke, entered by wrong, there can be no doubt; for, to whomsoever the right of entry belonged, it was not attached to the patent of Fowke. The possession was vacant, it is true, but it was left so under circumstances which destroyed all presumption of abandonment. Left by their parents, the lessors of the plaintiff were incapable of acting for themselves, and as they had no one to act for them to lease the land, and were incapable of occupying it, the land was forsaken, and under these circumstances the entry was made, and we should be inclined, if that entry had been made without color of title, not to permit such an intruder to shield himself with the title of a stranger. But as that entry was made under a patent valid until another was presented of elder date, and as by the laws of this country, the equity and real title may be with such patent, notwithstanding its want of age, and in its favor a decree might be rendered, requiring a release of all elder grants, we cannot say that these tenants are not entitled to the protection. The plaintiff must recover on the strength of his own title, and although the defendant may be in the wrong, and have no right, yet permitting the elder title in a stranger to be used, only keeps the plaintiff from possession when he has no right. It was correct, therefore, to permit the patent of Ransdale to operate as a bar to some extent. *5 The only doubt that could remain on the propriety of this instruction, is, whether it did not exclude from the jury the right to presume that Ransdale had conveyed to Fowke, and that the lessors had thereby acquired the legal estate, and it has been insisted that here is a great error contained in it. But a careful attention to the terms of the instructions, will show that it did not exclude such a presumption from the jury. It is hypothecated on the supposition that Fowke and his children had held by bond only, and did not preclude the lessors of the plaintiff from insisting, and the jury from finding that the bond had been carried into effect by a conveyance of the legal estate. If this was not the case, although it may seem to be attended with hardship and inconvenience to prevent the holder of an equity only from recovering in a court of law, yet the contrary principle is inflexibly settled, and the only way to avoid it, is by indulging, in some cases, the presumption of the conveyance of the legal estate. Adams on Ejectment, 32;  2 John. Rep. 221. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1824. Fowke v. Darnall 5 Litt. 316, 15 Ky. 316, 1824 WL 1440 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
