(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 192,  22 Ky. 192 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1669 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Blight's Heirs v. Banks' and Lewis' Executors and others, Banks v. Blight's Heirs, &c. Dec. 1, 1827. *1 Ejectmens Bills. Bills for Deeds of Confirmation. Conveyances. Answers. Recitals. Liens. Vendors and Vendees. Absent Defendants. Practice. Error. Depositions. Sheriff's Sales. Evidence. Register's Sales. CROSS APPEALS FROM THE GENERAL COURT; JOHN P. OLDHAM, AND JOHN L. BRIDGES, JUDGES. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 40 161 Execution 161II Property Subject to Execution 161k40 k. Equitable Estates or Interests in General. Most Cited Cases An equitable interest in land cannot be seized and sold on execution. Mortgages 266 k 533 266 Mortgages 266X Foreclosure by Action 266X(M) Sale 266k533 k. Property and Rights Passing by Sale. Most Cited  Cases Where a purchaser of land under an executory contract on which he paid nothing mortgaged his interest, and the mortgage was foreclosed without making the holder of the legal title a party to the action, and the property was sold to satisfy a decree in favor of the mortgagee, the purchaser obtained no title, since an equity cannot be sold under such execution. Motions 267 k 57 267 Motions 267k57 k. Notice or Service of Orders. Most Cited Cases Where the statute requires the publication of an order for two months, and the order itself directs publication for eight weeks, publication for two months is sufficient. Process 313 k 98 313 Process 313II Service 313II(C) Publication or Other Notice 313k98 k. Order for Publication. Most Cited  Cases An order directing publication against absent defendants for eight weeks only does not invalidate the subsequent proceedings, where the publication was in fact made for two successive months. Public Lands 317 k 151(.5) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(.5) k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 317k151) Where there is a variance between the quantity of the tract returned, as sold by the register to the auditor, and the certificate given the purchaser by the register, the return to the auditor shall be taken as true;  and an alteration by the auditor, by which his books are made to conform to the certificate, shall not prevail. Quieting Title 318 k 3 318 Quieting Title 318I Right of Action and Defenses 318k3 k. Grounds for Relief in Equity in General. Most Cited Cases Equity has jurisdiction to compel parties through whom the owner of land derives his title by deeds, lost or not recorded, to make deeds of confirmation to clear the title, and decree possession. Stipulations 363 k 14(9) 363 Stipulations 363k14 Construction and Operation in General 363k14(9) k. Documentary Evidence. Most Cited Cases A. having agreed that certain depositions should be read in a cause, B., who was interested in claims to the same matter in controversy, agreed to unite his claims with A.'s, and give to him the management of the suit.  Held, that B. could not object to the reading of the depositions. Taxation 371 k 3134 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(N) Tax Titles 371III(N)2 Tax Deeds 371k3133 Effect as to  Title 371k3134 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 371k789(1)) A sale and conveyance by the register of public lands by mistake for nonpayment of taxes, when the taxes had been paid, passes no title. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 226(2) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(C) Bona Fide Purchasers 400k225 Notice 400k226 In  General 400k226(2) k. Time of Notice. Most Cited  Cases A purchaser of land is not a bona fide purchaser unless he received a conveyance and paid the price of the land before he received notice of the equities. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 265(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k262 Transfer of Property by Purchaser 400k265 Rights and Liabilities of Subsequent  Purchasers 400k265(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a part of the land for which the purchase money is due has been sold to a purchaser with notice, the balance remaining unsold shall be first subjected to the original vendor's lien for the purchase money;  but if all the lands are sold, and in the same situation, they shall be subjected ratably. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 265(2) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k262 Transfer of Property by Purchaser 400k265 Rights and Liabilities of Subsequent  Purchasers 400k265(2) k. Bona Fide Purchasers. Most Cited  Cases A vendor's lien cannot be enforced against a bona fide purchaser from the vendee without notice of the lien. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 266(8) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(A) Lien and Recovery of Land 400k266 Waiver, Loss, or Discharge of Lien 400k266(8) k. Taking Other Security and Enforcement  Thereof. Most Cited Cases A lien for the purchase money of land cannot be enforced against a purchaser without notice, nor against the purchaser with notice when the vendor has taken personal security for the purchase money. Contracts 95 k 261(1) 95 Contracts 95IV Rescission and Abandonment 95k257 Grounds for Rescission by Party 95k261 Failure of Performance or Breach 95k261(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a contract, which has not been performed (the parties having failed to comply with their stipulations), remains a burden on the title, it may be rescinded in equity, and a release ordered. Costs 102 k 17 102 Costs 102I Nature, Grounds, and Extent of Right in General 102k17 k. Questions of Title to Real Property. Most Cited Cases Where a defendant answers a bill for confirmation of title, not resisting the relief, complainant may have his deed, but must pay the costs of the suit. Deeds 120 k 83 120 Deeds 120II Recording and Registration 120k83 k. Instruments Entitled to Record. Most Cited Cases Deeds executed out of the state may be recorded there within 18 months from the time of the execution;  but where an authenticated copy, and not the original, was recorded, it was held that the grantee might have the aid of a court of equity to remedy the defect. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 A patent for 113,482 acres of land issued from the Commonwealth of Virginia, to Henry Banks and Richard Claibourne, as tenants in common, which forms the subject of the present controversy. Grant of the land to Banks and Claibourne. Samuel Blight filed his bill in the court below, claiming the title thereto, by the following chain of conveyances. Blight's claim of title. A conveyance for 5,277 acres thereof, as the quantity is styled in the fact of the deed, (but as the boundary described in the deed shows, upwards of 20,000 acres) from Henry Banks and Richard Claibourne, the patentees, dated in 1787, to Pierre Louis Philippi Galbot De Lomerie, and also a deed of confirmation of the same land to De Lomerie by the same patentees, dated in 1799. Deeds of bargain and sale from Banks and Claibourne to De L??merie, and of confirmation. A conveyance from De Lomerie to Blight himself, which completes the claim as to that quantity. As to the residue of the tract which forms the principal controversy, he sets out the following: A letter of attorney from Henry Banks to his co-partner, Richard Claibourne, authorizing him to sell and convey all his interest in this and other lands, dated on the 25th January, 1786. Banks' letter of attorney to Claibourne. A conveyance from Richard Claibourne from himself, and as attorney in fact for Henry Banks, dated 6th January, 1794, of the whole residue of the tract, to James Trenchard. Claibourne's deed to Trenchard. A conveyance for one-third of the same tract, from Trenchard to Burges Allison, dated 28th November, 1796. A conveyance from Thomas Campton, William Tilghman and Joseph Hopkins, commissioners of bankruptcy, under the late law of the United States on that subject, (Burges Allison having been under a commission issued for that purpose, previously declared a bankrupt), to Thomas Ervine and Samuel Jones, as assignee, dated 27th February, 1801. Deed of the commissioners of bankruptcy of Allison to his assignees. A conveyance from Thomas Ervine and Samuel Jones to John Keighan, dated 2d June, 1803. Conveyance from the assignees to Keighan. A conveyance from Keighan, dated on the same day with the latter, to the said Thomas Ervine and Samuel Jones, as individual. Deed of Keighan to Ervin and Jones. A conveyance from the said Thomas Ervine and wife, to the said Samuel Jones, for his moiety of the third undivided, dated 4th September, 1809. Ervin to Jones. A conveyance from said Samuel Jones, dated on the 30th of November, 1809, to Samuel Blight, the complainant, which in addition to the conveyance from De Lomerie, completes his claim to De Lomorie's part and an undivided third of the residue. Jones' deed to Blight. For the remaining two-thirds which we, according to this statement, have left in James Trenchard, he sets out the following conveyances: Two conveyances from said Trenchard to David Allison, dated 28th November, 1796, each for one-third of the tract. *3 Trenchard's deeds to Allison. A conveyance from David Allison to William Shannon, dated on the 11th of June, 1797. Allison to Shannon. A conveyance from William Shannon to Guy Bryan, John Lyle and John Fries, dated on the 13th of November, 1809. Shannon to Bryan, Lyle and Fries. And finally a conveyance from said Bryan, Lyle and Fries to Samuel Blight, the complainant, dated 23d October, 1809. Conveyance from Bryan, Lyle and Fries to Blight. In his original bill, he makes the patentees and all the intervening grantees parties, and states that none of these conveyances, except those to himself immediately, have been proved or acknowledged and recorded as the laws of this country direct, that of course the title remains in jeopardy from creditors and innocent purchasers, and that it is with great difficulty that any title can be established at law, because the conveyances can not be given in evidence without parol proof, that some of the witnesses are dead, and some of the original conveyances are lost and can not be found, and he prays that his title may be rendered complete as a recorded title, by the decree of the chancellor. Blight's bill alleging the deeds in his claim of title, are some not registered according to law, and can not be proved, and others are lost, and praying deeds of confirmations. Banks, the patentee, answered, and against the rest of the aforenamed parties the bill is taken as confessed, after publication made, We shall have occasion to notice the contents of the answer of Banks, or rather of his different answers, as there are several, as we progress with the case. Banks' answers, and publication against the other defendants. The first question made in his favor, is the jurisdiction of a court of equity. It is asserted that such defalcations in completing a defective title, are generally the fault of the grantees, and that equity will not sustain a bill for such purpose. On this point we will not long dwell; for we can not doubt the propriety of the interference of the chancellor in such case. Equity will frequently interfere to remove difficulties in land titles, where a party can not proceed without difficulty at law, when the conveyances are lost, or in the possession of the opposite party, or where the parties are numerous, and the proof hard of access, and in many such cases it will lighten the burden, and settle many controversies and bring them into a small scope. Equity has jurisdiction to compel the parties through whom the owner derives his title by deeds lost or not registered according to law, to execute deeds of confirmation to be registered. And where the title is purely legal, for such and similar causes, to those we have enumerated, equity has carved out a branch of jurisdiction, and a class of bills, termed in the books ejectment bills, in which not only the title is made clear, but the possession decreed also. No reason is perceived by us, why the present case is not within the spirit of these cases. The difficulties in an unrecorded title, especially if it is derived through a long chain of conveyances, is familiar to our courts in this country. The danger to which the title is exposed from two classes of persons, creditors and subsequent purchasers is often great, and the facilities afforded from a title which can be read in evidence without other proof than the authentication annexed, are felt by every one who has to bring his title into court for attack or defence, and the present case will furnish a good comment on the propriety of the interference of the chancellor. As to the default of the grantees in not having their title properly recorded, it may furnish a good reason for taxing them with the costs of renewing the title, provided the defendants make no opposition to a confirmation of title. *4 Ejectment bills, and the chancellor's jurisdiction to clear the titles. remove obstructions and settle complicated controversies on the titles to land. The next point relied on, is, that there is no proof of the different conveyances set up by Blight, and that Banks has not admitted them in his answers, taking them in mass. On this point we are unable to reconcile all the different answers put in by him. In the first, he neither expressly admits or denies them, in a second he expressly admits them, but requires his adversary to compound with him, and admit some of his affirmative statements in return, and in a third he goes so far as to say he does not admit or believe they were made or executed. But independent of his admission in one of his answers, it is impossible to read any of them, and not perceive that the writer labored under a weighty consciousness, that the following deeds and documents actually exist and are genuine, to-wit: the letter of attorney from him to Claibourne, the first deed of Claibourne to De Lomerie; the conveyance from Claibourne to Trenchard, and the conveyances from Trenchard to both Burges and David Allison. Answers of Banks, their manner and their inconsistencies as to the execution of certain deeds of conveyance, alleged in the bill, held to be equal to an admission of them. In addition to this, the deed of confirmation from Banks and Claibourne to De Lomerie, in 1799, which Banks does not pretend to dispute, not only alludes to the power of Claibourne, but also in express terms, recites and declares the fact of the conveyance from Claibourne to Trenchard, which had then taken place after the first, and before the second deed to De Lomerie, and there is an express stipulation, that the patentees had conveyed to none other except Trenchard, in which the part of De Lomerie was excepted, and we may add, that in a schedule rendered by Banks when he took the benefit of the insolvent laws of Pennsylvania, and which he now sets out and relies on, there is an express acknowledgement of the conveyances from Trenchard to David and Burges Allison. To this point therefore the title of Blight is indisputable. Effects of recitals in instruments to prove prior deeds. The deed of confirmation from Banks and Claibourne, to De Lomerie, was acknowledged in proper time and manner before the mayor of Philadelphia, and certified by him, under the seal of the corporation, which did entitle it to record in this State, under our acts of Assembly; if it had been offered in proper time to the proper office. It was recorded here in due time, that is in less than eighteen months, which has been held by this court, the correct time for conveyances made abroad for lands in this State, under the proper construction of our laws, regulating this matter. See  Taylor v?? Shields' heirs, 5 Litt. 295. Deeds executed abroad, may be registered here within eighteen months. But we discover that by the certificate of the recording officer in this State; an authenticated copy of the deed, and not the original was presented to, and recorded by him, which renders the registry of the deed defective, and entitles Blight to come into a court of equity to remedy this defect. His own deed is made and recorded in proper time, and we shall for the present leave the part of De Lomerie, till we consider the defects of the other deeds to the remaining part of the land. *5 The original deed and not a certified copy must be produced to the recording officer. As to this sale from the patentees to Trenchard, Banks makes the same defendants to his answer, which Blight had made in his bill, as well as others, and also makes Blight a defendant to his answer,and charges that the land when bought by Trenchard was not all paid for, and that there was a balance due, and exhibits a bond for upwards of L8,000 sterling, with some credits thereon endorsed, executed by Trenchard, Burges Allison and Joseph Barnes, by trenchard as agent, and he claims a lien upon the land for this sum, and that if the debt is not paid to him, the land may be subjected thereto, if the title is not released to him, which he first requires, and one of the most important questions made is, on this lien. Banks' cross bill to subject the land to payment of the balance due him of the purchase money. We have already seen that the title is established from the patentees to David and Burges Allison, and it has been insisted that as the bill is taken as confessed against the rest, the confession is sufficient as against them, and all concerned. It will be admitted that the confession is clear evidence against the defendants, who are silent, and indeed as to all others, whose interest can not be prejudiced by the confession. Admission or silence of a part of the defendants, can not affect others who have an interest in the facts alleged. As the title has passed from Banks and Claibourne, it is evident that they have no right to interfere with the fact admitted by the answers or silence of other grantors, unless they shall make out a valid lien, and the admissions of the defendants against whom the bill is taken as confessed, shall operate against his lien, in which case, their silence can not prejudice him. Otherwise where the other defendants have no interest in the matter confessed. We must therefore, notice this lien. It has no bearing on the part sold to De Lomerie, as his part is evidently paid for, and only applies to the residue of the tract sold to Trenchard. We shall not notice all the objections made to this lien in argument; but shall barely observe, that although the note itself, has no connection on its face, or by its face with the conveyance to Trenchard, as the deed is dated sometime before the note, yet the deposition of Burges Allison, which is used, states the note was given for this land, and Banks says in his schedule before alluded to, that it was given for this and other lands sold at the same time. At the time Trenchard purchased this tract, he bought also many other tracts in Harrison county, Virginia, amounting in the whole to about 150,000 acres, which were included in the same deed to Trenchard. What has become of these lands, no where appears in this cause; whether Trenchard yet retains them, or whether they are now in the hands of purchasers, either with or without notice, is not shown, and equity would not enforce the lien against even a purchaser with notice, while there was enough of the lands remaining in the hands of the original purchaser to satisfy the demand. On this the lien ought to fall, and it is evident that this bond was given for all. *6 Where the vendor pursues the land for the consideration money, and a part has been sold to a purchaser, though with notice, the balance unsold shall be first subjected. If all the lands be sold, and in the same situation, they shall be subjected ratably. The farthest therefore it could extend to this tract would be rateably only, if all the lands were in the same situation. We have already settled the fact of title in David Allison, in two conveyances. His purchase seems entirely unconnected with the purchase of Burges Allison, and there is no proof in the cause, tending to fix notice on him, that Trenchard owed any part of the purchase money. The conveyance to Trenchard not only acknowledges payment on its face, but by a receipt in full, written on the deed, payment is fully acknowledged. David Allison had therefore a right to take the fact of payment as true, and must be presumed to have done so, unless it is proved that he was expressly warned of the contrary. All the part therefore of David Allison, must be held to be discharged from this lien, if it exists at all. For no principle is better settled, than that a lien for the purchase money, which is a creature of a court of equity, can not be enforced against a purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice. Blight therefore has a right to read, on the admission made by taking the bill as confessed, all the conveyances from David Allison to him, free from the objection of Banks, who can not be injured thereby, as he has lost his lien, if any be had, by the purchase of David Allison. A lien for the purchase money can not be enforced against a purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice. Deed to such a sub-purchaser, read against the original vendor, claiming a lien, on the bill of the grantee, taken pro confesso against the grantor. It has been urged in argument, that Banks is only a defendant resisting a recovery against him, and that in this attitude equity will give no relief against him, as to the title of this land, if the money is not paid. If Blight held an equity only, and was endeavoring to enforce it, this might be true. But his situation is otherwise. He holds the legal estate, and only prays that the evidences thereof may be made more safe and credible than they are. To refuse him any aid because Banks has never been paid, might prejudice him, and could never aid Banks, as he, on his cross bill could not enforce his lien, because none exists. Blight, therefore, being clearly entitled to the share of David Allison, as well as that of De Lomerie, the quantity which the supposed lien could reach is greatly lessened, as well as that portion of the debt which could reach it. In a bill against the grantors, in a long chain of conveyances, not regularly registered, for a deed of confirmation, it is no defence for the patentee, that he had not been paid, where it appears the purchases from his alienee, were for valuable consideration, without notice. *7 Where the complainant shews the legal title, and only goes to have a deed of confirmation to be registered, the defendant can not resist him by a claim he could not enforce as actor. The part of Burges Allison therefore only remains to be considered. He had notice that the debt was not paid, and we need not say, that the commission of bankruptcy against him would destroy it; for we cannot admit that this debt is any lien at all. Difficulties exist against it, owing to the lapse of time, and the presumption against it from that quarter, and it is, in proof, that part of the land at least, has been held in possession under the purchase of Trenchard ever since the year, 1795. Lapse of time and possession. But this is not all, Burges Allison was not a partner with Trenchard, according to his own testimony, as well as the exhibits in the cause, in the original purchase. He was then unknown to Banks and Claibourne. He afterwards agreed to become interested with Trenchard, by contract with him, and Claibourne accepted him in the bond in all respects as a security. Barnes also has his hand and seal affixed by Trenchard, which was designed as a farther security. But whether Trenchard had or had not authority to do this, we need not inquire. The security of Burges Allison is enough. The security of a bond from the purchaser alone was held sufficient formerly to destroy the lien. This has since been often overruled; but it is still maintained by all the cases that personal security removes the lien, and that by accepting it, the seller waives the lien, and others knowing this, may purchase with safety. Another fact renders it evident that Allison was a surety. As we have observed, the bond was given for this and other lands also, in which Burges Allison had not the most remote interest or claim. Why then did he unite in the bond to secure more than what he himself owed, if it was not as surety for Trenchard. Nor will the attitude of Banks as a defendant not yet paid against a holder of the legal estate help him in this respect. The application is not made to get the legal title from him; but only to renew evidences once existing and held free from any lien which he might have retained. There is then no difficulty in Blight reaching his titles down to himself, on the admission made by the silence of the other defendants. But we may add to this, that the exhibits or conveyances from the commissioners of bankruptcy, down to Blight, are proved by the depositions in the cause. Where the vendor takes personal security for the purchase money, he can not afterwards assert a lien against even a purchaser with notice. We are aware that exceptions have been taken to the orders of publication. In the original record they may not be complete; but they are shown to be so by the additional record brought up by certiorari. One of the orders, it is true, directs the insertion to be made by the editor eight weeks only, instead of two months, and it has been frequently held by this court, that proof of insertion for eight weeks only, is insufficient. But the proof is clear that the order, was, in fact, inserted two months in succession, and it has never been held, that if the order said eight weeks, it vitiated the publication made the proper length of time. The note of the time of insertion in the order, is designed as a direction of the printer, and is not essential to the validity of the order, and if the printer, knowing that this direction to insert it, is not long enough to comply with the law, shall continue the publication for a sufficient length of time, no reason is perceived for holding the publication defective. *8 An order of publication, directing the advertisement eight weeks, but in fact published for two months, is sufficient. It has also been urged that as all the bills were dismissed in the court below pro forma, and an agreement added to the decree, that the cause should be tried here, and the same objections be made to evidence here, as could have been made in the court below, the depositions to which we have alluded as proving the exhibits, can not be read, because they were taken to be used in another cause and another court, and copied and filed here, and that Banks has never agreed that they shall be read. Depositions filed under the agreement with Lewis. But there is an agreement made that they shall be read here by another party, which it is insisted must be extended to Banks. This introduces another character or party, not heretofore noticed, and we will proceed to give a succinct history of his claim and standing, and with this objection to the deposition, consider the other questions arising out of his case. Banks appears to have drawn an order in favor of Abraham Morehouse for $50,000, to be paid in lands in Kentucky, on his agent Cuthbert Banks, residing in Kentucky; Cuthbert Banks discharged part of this order in lands, the balance was assigned by Morehouse to P. H. N. Tot Bastrop, who applied to Cuthbert Banks, the agent, for the payment thereof, and Cuthbert Banks, by articles of agreement or executory contract, in the year 1800, sold the tract now in contest, with others, to Bastrop, who immediately, or in the same year, mortgaged them to said Morehouse, to secure him in the payment of a sum of money expressed in the mortgage. On this mortgage Morehouse filed his bill against Bastrop in the late Danville district court, and obtained a decree of foreclosure and sale, at which John Blanton bought this tract of 113,482 acres. The executors and heirs of John May having a judgment against Blanton, sold this tract of land by execution against him, and Thomas Lewis became the purchaser thereof, and obtained the conveyance of the sheriff. History of Lewis' claim. Lewis then filed his bill in the Hardin circuit court, against Henry Banks and Claibourne, to compel them to convey the title, and having advertised against them as non-residents, obtained a decree for the whole tract, and a conveyance was accordingly made to him, by a commissioner appointed by that court. Henry Banks, some time after this decree, filed his bill of review, to set aside this decree of Lewis, and at the hearing thereof, the same court reversed and set aside this decree at the prayer of Banks, and annulled the title of Lewis. Lewis and H. Banks then made an adjustment of their controversy, in which H. Banks released all his title in this tract to Lewis, and agreed that the decree on the bill of review should be set aside, and the first decree reinstated, which was accordingly done by the court. Suits, decrees and agreements between Banks and Lewis. *9 This latter proceeding took place pending this suit. Lewis appeared in this cause, and prayed to be made a defendant or a party thereto, which was granted to him, and he filed a cross bill against both Blight and Henry Banks, praying that each might be compelled to convey and release their title to him, which was answered by both H. Banks and Blight, and this was tried and decided by the same decree, which we are now revising, and the bill of Lewis was dismissed; he having previously departed this life, the suit was revived in the name of his executors and devisees. Lewis introduces himself into this cause, and is made party. Blight, on discovering the friendly manner in which H. Banks had released his title to Lewis, and ratified the decree, which had been reversed in the bill of review, filed an amended bill in this cause, suggesting that both H. Banks and Lewis had entered into a combination to defraud him, and that an article of agreement to that effect, and for the purpose of embarrassing his title, existed between them. Blight's amended bill against the representatives of Lewis and Banks. In their answer they exhibit the article in which they agree that Banks had conveyed all his title to Lewis, and that their claims should thus be united, and that they would sell the land and divide the proceeds equally between them, so soon as, by their united effort, they could defeat Blight in this suit. In the same article it is stipulated that the whole control and management of this suit shall be given up to Lewis, in as strong terms as can well be expressed, and all that Lewis had done or should do in the cause, was ratified and declared to be binding on H. Banks. Lewis' and Banks' answer to Blight, exhibiting their partnership agreement. Now, before this time Lewis had made an express written agreement in this cause, that the depositions now objected to, should be copied, and filed, and read in this controversy. This agreement must have been known to Banks at the time he solemnly submitted his case to the management of Lewis, and conveyed to him. Indeed, by this agreement Lewis or his devisees must be taken as H. Banks himself. They hold the title of Banks, such as it is, one-half for themselves and the other half as trustee for Banks, except certain parts which Lewis had previously agreed to part with to others, which he reserves wholly for himself. Of course, if these depositions can be read against Lewis, they can be read against Banks also, for his claim, as well as the fate of his case is vested in Lewis, by his own act, yet binding upon him. Lewis' agreement to the reading of the depositions, held to be obligatory on Banks. It is true, that before this cause was tried, Banks appears to have rued this contract, and files an answer in the nature of a cross bill against Lewis' devises and executors, praying that this contract with, and conveyance to Lewis, may be set aside, alleging that Lewis, when he made this contract, had defrauded him, (as he alleges was the case in all his different sales of this land, from that to Trenchard in 1794, to this with Lewis in 1818), by representing that he, Lewis, possessed and held the claim of Blight. This is denied by the answer of Lewis' executors, and we do not well perceive how it can ever be proved; because the writings between them expressly shew that neither Lewis or Banks had Blight's claim, and that they were struggling to defeat it in this suit, and that the design of their agreement was to make their united effort bear more forcibly against it. It is true that this part of this controversy between Banks and Lewis' devisees is still retained in the court below, to be hereafter decided, and we are not now to decide it, but are bound to look into it so far as it may have a bearing on the other parties to the suit; and looking into it for this purpose alone, we perceive nothing that weakens its obligation on Banks, or that will prevent us from considering Lewis as Banks, as he has rested his claim in Lewis' hands; of course these depositions must be read. *10 Banks' cross bill against the representatives of Lewis; their answer, and the effect of that case on the controversy with Blight. Here we are furnished with another decisive refutation of the lien set up by Banks. He has made a disposition of all his claim, both legal and equitable, to Lewis, totally incompatible with a decree selling this land for the purchase money. Lewis is to have certain parts thereof, exclusively to himself, and then is to hold one-half of the residue. There is no way of making this supposed lien effectual, consistent with his disposition to Lewis, but to make it operate exclusively on the claim of Blight, and expose it to sale, leaving Lewis to reserve his claim as well as that of Banks. Vendor, who after his conveyance, asserts claim to the land, and sells and conveys it to another, can not subject the claim of his vendee and his alienees to sale, for a balance of the consideration money. A court of equity will sell lands in discharge of liens, but not claims, without the land, and to offer this land to purchasers, all claims must be brought into market. At all events, this contract with Lewis shows the estimate placed by Banks himself, as well as Lewis, on this lien. He did not esteem it as valuable as a union of strength with Lewis, for the purpose of defeating Blight entirely, and supposed the half of Lewis' claim aided by his skill, was worth more than his claim on the bond, set up by him as a lien upon the land. Courts of equity sell lands in discharge of liens, but not claims to land. The question now occurs, what is to be done with Lewis and his title. Is he to be excluded from all participation in the contest, and excluded from it holding his title, or must he be retained and compelled to surrender it. If he had remained in the same situation in which he appeared, when he voluntarily brought himself into the controversy, he might be excluded. But he, or his representatives now appear clothed with the claim of Banks, as well as other claims to fortify it, claiming the land; and actually disturbing the possession; and Blight has, by an amended bill against him, claimed to be relieved of this burden on his title also, and that his claim may be released. To grant this relief against him, is within the jurisdiction of the chancellor. The bill of Blight has become in this respect, still more like an ejectment bill, and is framed, not only to renew and simplify his evidences of title, but to remove encumbrances and claims calculated to annoy his possession, and lessen the value of the estate, and he is entitled to this relief, unless something is found in the claim of Lewis to forbid it. Equity has jurisdiction to renew and simplify the owner's evidences of title, and to move incumbrances and claims calculated to annoy his possession, and lessen the value of the estate. The sale to Bastrop can not stand in the way; because it was not only long after the sale to De Lomerie and Trenchard, but was by executory contract only, and did not make Bastrop a purchaser for a valuable consideration, without notice as to Trenchard and De Lomerie; to do this, it was necessary that Bastrop should not only have paid the price, but have received a conveyance, ignorant of the former sale of the patentees, and the proof shows that he was informed of it. *11 Subsequent purchaser, to resist a prior unrecorded conveyance must not only have paid the consideration money, but must have obtained a conveyance before notice. The decree of the Danville district court, can not oppose this relief; because the mortgage of Bastrop to Morehouse was of a supposed equity only, and the decree and sale thereon could pass no more. Neither Blight, nor any under whom he claims, were parties to that suit, and can not be more affected by the decree, than they would by a private sale by executory contract. Sale and conveyance, under a decree against one not having the legal title, does not affect the holder of the legal title, not a party. The sale by execution to Lewis against Blanton, the purchaser under the decree of the district court, can not defeat Blight, or give title to Lewis; because Blanton had at best, an apparent equity only; and it has been repeatedly held that an equity can not be sold under execution. Sale by execution, against Blanton, not having the legal title, passed nothing. The decree of the Hardin circuit court in favor of Lewis against Banks can not resist this relief, although it was obtained before the commencement of this suit, because Lewis was apprized of the title of Blight, as appears in the proof, before he received his deed under that decree; and on looking into that record, we discover that the order of publication was not made the length of time required by law, and of course according to the decisions of this court, the decree itself was void, and not binding on the parties thereto, and consequently, it can have no operation on those who were not parties, and Blight, and those from whom he derived title were not parties. Decree obtained on a publication for eight weeks, is not binding on even the parties, but is void. Nor can the ratification of that decree by Banks, and his conveyance to Lewis in pursuance thereof, defeat the relief prayed by Blight against Lewis; because this was done pending the suit and with the avowed design of defeating its operation. Ratification of Lewis' claim pending the suit, ineffectual. But as to the part sold to De Lomerie, Lewis sets up a different claim from any heretofore stated. He produces the conveyance of the register of the land office under a sale for taxes, as the property of De Lomerie, made to Charles Helm, and from Helm to himself, of the whole tract, by the bounds of De Lomerie's deed. It seems that the tract was listed for taxes in the name of De Lomerie at the quantity of 5,277 acres, the nominal quantity in his deed. One sale was made by the Register, and was returned by him to the Auditor to be 1,900 acres off of the western end, and the sale of that quantity was recorded by the auditor. This return and record, seems to have been since changed to 4,900 acres, and with this, the Register's certificate recited in the face of the deed agrees. Afterwards a subsequent sale was made of 377 acres, supposed to be the balance of the tract, and these two sales are combined by a subsequent Register in the same deed, and the whole tract is conveyed, by the Register's conveyance, according to the boundaries of the deed from Banks and Claiborne to De Lomerie, including upwards of 20,000 acres. *12 Lewis' claim under the Register's sale and deed. It is evident that the conveyance of the Register of the whole tract is not good. For waiving the question whether the purchaser would not be compelled to take his first purchase in quantity, laid off first at the west end, and then his second purchase in its proper place, which would probably be the correct mode, it is clear that the two sales could not be combined, because the conveyance, according to the second sale, ought not to have been made. Blight had redeemed it, and paid the taxes thereon, and obtained a quietus, and it must have been owing to the oversight of the officers that the conveyance was made. This vitiates the conveyance as to the whole tract, and if good for any part, it can only be for the first purchase. Surplus in tracts of land sold in several parcels by the Register, at different sales, does not pass by his deed's for the whole tract. Sale and conveyance of the Register, by mistake, where the taxes had been paid, does not pass the title. There is some difficulty in ascertaining what that purchase is. The certificate of the Register recited in the conveyance, who was not the Register who made the sale, is 4,900 acres, while the quantity returned sold by the Register and recorded in the Auditor's office is 1,900 acres, and which of these is to prevail is the question. As the entry and return of the sale by the Register and record of the officer required by law, is kept in the custody of the officers of the law, and the certificate is kept by the party, and operates as a mere memorandum, directory to the surveyor, and has no validity in passing title, we concede the preference to the record, and conceive it ought to prevail as fixing the true quantity; and although the return of the Register and record of the Auditor has been since changed by the Auditor to conform to the certificate, yet this change was not authorized, and we can not deem the sale valid for more than 1,900 acres, to be taken off from the westwardly end of the De Lomerie's survey, by a line parallel to the most westwardly boundary, terminating on the Ohio at one end and the line of De Lomerie's survey, which runs parallel to the river, including the proper quantity, and the devisees and executors of Lewis must release all but that boundary. Where there is a variance between the quantity of the tract, returned as sold, by the Register to the Auditor, and certificate given the purchaser by the Register, the return made to the auditor shall prevail, and his subsequent alteration of his books is ineffectual. Whether the deed from the register already obtained, as it includes this land really sold, as well as other lands which it ought not to have included, is valid as to the part really sold, we need not enquire. Query, as to the effect of the Register's deed including too great quantity of land. But we predicate our decision on this point, on the fact, that so much was really sold, and as there is no evidence impeaching the sale, it must be held as prima facie correct, according to former opinions of this court. *13 Register's sale held prima facie correct. Another objection to granting any relief as to this part of De Lomerie, is the extraordinary surplus contained therein, and it is urged that ought to raise a presumption of fraud. We say presumption, because there is no other evidence of the fact. To this we reply, that this presumption is destroyed by its also appearing on the face of the deed itself, that it contains within its boundaries more than the quantity named, and the reason of the boundaries being enlarged is reasonably accounted for by showing that there were other claims in the names of others, within that boundary supposed to be superior, and it is reasonable to suppose that the parties intended to include that quantity after these claims were excepted, and therefore they enlarged the boundary, and it is shown that the quantity conveyed will not greatly exceed the quantity named, after these claims are deducted. Surplus accounted for by the fact of the boundaries, including other superior adverse claims. We therefore conclude that the sales, made by the patentees of this tract of land now held by Blight's heirs must prove successful over all the subsequent sales and conveyances of the same land, with the exceptions aforesaid, as they are the oldest and are unimpeached, and were completed by conveyances of the legal estate, good against all, except two descriptions of persons--creditors and innocent purchasers. Blight's claim held the superior. There is still another incumbrance on the title of Blight not yet noticed, which he seeks to remove by an amended bill. In the deed from Claibourne and Banks to Trenchard, the part before sold to De Lomerie was excepted. But Trenchard in his subsequent conveyances and dispositions of the land, did not make this exception, and undertook to convey the whole, including the part of De Lomerie; and before he sold to David and Burges Allison, he laid off a town upon the part of De Lomerie, probably by protraction only, with both in and out lots marked thereon, and also on the same diagram, divided the whole tract into farms of five hundred acres each, and contracted with Coburn Barrett, Henry Servantes and David Barbour, that they should come to the land, or one of them and bring upwards of two hundred families, who should settle the lands as tenants, or lessees, on an annual rent. Each settler who should settle and faithfully pay his rent for seven years, and clear a certain quantity of ground was to be entitled to lots in the ideal town named Ohiopiomingo, which then, no doubt, appeared brilliant on paper; and other privileges were to be allowed them, and to Barrett, Servantes and Barbour, certain portions of land were to be allowed for the performance of the stipulations on their part. Trenchard's contract with Barbour, Barrett and Servantes, to settle the lands by tenants, to be interested in the paper town Ohiopimingo. An attempt was made to perform this agreement. David Barbour arrived on the land in 1795 or 1796, with sundry families, though not near enough to comply with the contract, most of whom settled down at the mouth of Doe Run, on the site of the town of Ohiopiomingo, and some attempts were made by Barbour to make the requisite leases. Subject to this arrangement Trenchard conveyed to David and Burges Allison. Most of those settlers became dissatisfied with their new situations, and were disquieted by other claims appearing on the land. As they were from Europe, it is probable that some of them were dissatisfied with the wilderness into which they were led, and found themselves in a country where unsettled lands could be had in abundance, without rent. They, therefore, began to transfer their possessions to others, until all, or nearly all, abandoned the enterprise. Barbour staid on the land for several years, endeavoring to recruit his settlement. Some of those settled on the land, and that outside of the claim of De Lomerie, remained thereon, or those claiming under them, till Blight himself entered in 1810; since which time he has been possessed by himself or tenants; and now, in his amended bill, he makes Barbour, Barrett, Servantes and some who claim under them, or their representatives, where any of them have died, defendants, and prays relief against these contracts of Trenchard, and requires them to be surrendered, on the ground that the enterprise failed, and there was a total failure on the part of Barrett, Servantes and Barbour to comply with their contract. We perceive no objection to granting this relief also, as this contract is a dormant burden on his title, and may affect the enjoyment thereof or lessen its value, and the proof is clear that the contracting parties only attempted, and utterly failed to comply with their stipulations, and that they have done nothing to entitle them to a conveyance of any portion which they might have been entitled to by a compliance. *14 Settlements by the tenants under the contract with Barbour and others. Contract with Barbour, &c., not having been performed, but remaining a dormant burden on the title, is rescinded, and a release ordered. One other question has been made in argument worthy of notice. It is insisted that if Blight, or his representatives, shall be found entitled to a completion of his title by proper registry of conveyances, it ought to be granted at his costs, as the non registry of these deeds was not owing to the grantors. As before observed, if the defendants had have met his application to a court of equity, by a willingness to perfect his title, it would, no doubt, have been equitable to have left the costs on him. But in this case a different rule must prevail with regard to the defendants Banks and Lewis' devisees and executors. Banks has, by subsequent transfers of this land, embarrassed it to the great prejudice of his first sale. Lewis has bought up one claim after another, still knowing of Blight's, and finally they formed a union for the purpose of more effective opposition, and through every stage of the cause, Blight has met with the most decided resistance. until the record is swelled to an inconvenient and unusual size. Under these circumstances we can not say that either Lewis' representatives or Banks can escape from the burden of the contest, unnecessarily enlarged and increased. Where the defendants in a bill for a new deed, in confirmation of former deeds, lost or not registered for the purpose of simplifying the title, answers, not resisting the relief, the complainant may have his decree and deed but pay the costs of the suit. Upon the whole case, therefore, the decree of the court below, so far as it dismissed the cross bills of Banks and Lewis' representatives must be affirmed with costs. And so far as it dismissed the bill of Blight, (whose heirs now prosecute it, he having died pending the appeal), it must be reversed, with costs, as to Banks and Lewis' executors, and the cause be remanded, with directions to the court below, to enter up a decree against all the defendants, that they release and convey to Blight's heirs all the tract of 113,482 acres of land, with the exception of nineteen hundred acres, based on the whole extent of the western boundary of De Lomerie's deed, and extending with his line eastwardly on one side, and with the Ohio river on the other, till a line parallel to the base shall include that quantity. Decree dismising the bills of Banks and Lewis' devisees affirmed. Decree dismissing Blight's bill reversed, and mandate for a conveyance. Banks must pay the costs of his appeal and Banks and Lewis' executors and devisees the costs of Blight's appeal. Costs. PETITION FOR A RE-HEARING BY HAGGIN & MONROE. Petition for a rehearing. That all the forms and ceremonies of practice, known and unknown, should have been strictly observed, and the proof made perfect, touching all the matters of fact controverted in this complicated cause, and in the first instance, must be the effect of rare luck, or very extraordinary skill and assiduity; in so much, that although the opinion seems to have been written with a running pen, no difficulty presenting itself upon any point; yet we trust that upon more mature consideration the complainants have in many instances failed. *15 On the subject of jurisdiction. We find that the learned counsel who prepared the bill, was at a great loss to shape its prayer. They who argued the cause for the complainants seemed to have no definite views of the tenor proper for a decree. And so far as our practice or knowledge will extend, it is without precedent or authority. The defendants therefore, denied the power of the court. But this honorable court disavowing any doubt on the subject, and the counsel of the defendant being very sensible that their arguments unsupported by cases can avail but little, it is most probable this will stand, as it has been announced from the bench, an ejectment bill. Still as this is the first case, and in a land presenting thousands of titles in like manner perplexed, and leads to a most frightful scene of litigation, we should have been gratified that this honorable tribunal had pointed out the analogies, and had not rested content in avowing itself "unable to perceive why this case was not within the spirit of those." This innovation, however, upon the practice as we trust we are authorized by the opinion delivered to consider it, would not have alarmed the defendants in this cause, had it not been allowed by a greater inroad upon principle. The rule that he who would ask the aid of the chancellor, must first do equity is expressly declared inapplicable and laid aside. Banks might not have suffered very essentially in being required to convey his lands upon the payment of the price with its interest. But to deprive him of his lands and money too, is palpable injustice. He purchased from his country, paid the price, and obtained a grant. The land was his. In the year 1795, he sold, or contracted to sell, at the sum of L>>>>>8,000. He has not yet been paid, nor has fraud been imputed to him. And now he is compelled to convey his land, or consummate the title without value, or the hope of it. For the purchaser or sureties are insolvent, dead or fled the country. It may be the rule, but if it be, the chancellor sometimes lends himself a willing instrument for purposes unfair and iniquitous. That institution which owes its existence to the necessity of redeeming itself from the hardships incident to the rigid and inflexible rules of the common law, becomes itself most techinal, and improves on the outrage. Blight no where suggests a fact calculated to place him in a better attitude than that of the first purchaser. Suggests no fraud, no encouragement on the part of Banks, that he should make the purchase. No delusion, no mistake on his own part. We believe he could not in truth, for he is a purchaser of the whole claim of 113,000 acres of land, for $400, or about that sum in the year 18--, and at that time, others claiming by contract for purchase under Banks, were in the actual possession. It must however suffice, that he alleges nothing to better his condition. Left at law under the imperfect state of his title papers, he could only recover so much of the purchase money as had been paid with its interest. Now the consideration is withheld, and the land is decreed. The consideration paid by Blight is but little more than nominal; yet he probably gets an estate worth $100,000, and Banks receives nothing. This is intrinsically wrong. All must so exclaim. And such are our views of the duties of the chancellor, whenever we witness palpable injustice at his hand, we suspect principle has been violated. The sacrifice, in the present case, we do not apprehend to be required by the law of the chancery. *16 Most certainly had this transaction remained in bonds, between the original parties, (and it is most clear that Blight can not claim other advantages), however absolute the terms, and however satisfactory the security for the price had been in the first instance, yet no conveyance could have been decreed without a payment of the price. The chancellor must answer to every such application, that he only acted upon the condition of doing justice to all concerned. And could not be tempted to become a partisan. Gratuities and favors, he neither dispenses, nor will he coerce. He looks to the consideration, requires that it be adequate and fully satisfied. Why then do we dispute about specific liens, the discharge of that lien, &c. &c. The principle for which we contend, applies to all contracts of every character, and in relation to all subjects. The complainant must do equity before he can call in aid the just chancellor. And those questions of lien apply, when the vendor may seek a recovery of his money. Now it is not contended that the purchaser who has stipulated for long credit, and an early perfection of the title, the ultimate payment of the money being secured, shall not have a title. But we do say that so soon as it shall appear to the chancellor, that the money which was deemed secure, is jeopardized by subsequent events, he must hold off until that difficulty be removed. It is however supposed that an attempt to consummate the title in this case, essentially changes the rule. This were to overlook the substance of things, and yield to circumstances of no worth. In foro conscientiae, the man who has obtained a deed for land without price, has no higher claims than one who has but a bond. And he who has paid the value, however informal his evidence may be, has equal merit with him who holds the deed. At law these solemnities, and estoppels avail much, but in chancery they are light indeed. If the complainant has deeds sufficient to recover the land, possibly the court would not cancel they upon any state of case which Banks could prove. Then let his bill be dismissed without prejudice. This is the plain and common, and universal course. Let him sue at law, and make the most of his title. Perhaps Banks will defeat him, and he may find it expedient to close the transaction upon just terms. No, says the court, it is wrong to dismiss Blight's bill, because they could not decree for Banks. A rare conclusion. In direct opposition to the most general and familiar principles. Then the rule should not be to inquire into the equity of the complainant, but what would be the pretensions of the defendant, should he change sides. Then no bill should be dismissed without prejudice to the complainant's remedy at law, but however imperfect his equity, the court should weigh it in the scale with his adversary, strike the balance, and close the contest. We trust it will be found an invariable rule in equity to refuse relief to the complainant upon any other terms than that he shall do what is fair and equitable on his part. *17 The court however seems to find some consolation for the hardships the defendant may suffer in the estimate which he put upon his claim, as evidenced by his contract with Lewis. There he was willing to take half. The remark we had not expected. We know that the counsel sometimes indulge in such allusions. Their motive is obvious. Yet we have still understood it to be the province and the duty of the court to decide upon rights as they appear in proof, and not as they may be appreciated by the parties. It appears that Blight paid, but four hundred dollars for the adverse claim, and from this perhaps the inference might be drawn, that he was also to pay Banks his L8,000 with its interest. But suppose it had been shown that he paid, and only expected to pay $400, and that he had agreed to give his lawyer or some speculator, one half the land which he might recover, as a compensation for his services in superintending the suit. Yet none who know this court, we presume, would venture to say, that this fact will prejudice the cause of the complainants, or his attorney or agent. We do not consider Blight as having proved his claim of title. Banks may successfully resist any claim except from those who shall show a purchase from him. This is to be done as every other fact, by proof; by deeds, depositions, & c., and in taking depositions, it is his privilege to cross examine the witnesses. And because this privilege can not be exercised in the preparation of answers, the answer of one defendant in chancery can not be used in evidence against another. Whenever therefore, a complainant would avail himself of the testimony of one defendant, he must obtain leave, and take his deposition. Thus are the authorities in regard to answers. But we think there can be much less said in favor of giving the bill in evidence against one defendant, because another has not answered it. Before the act of February, 1815, 1 Dig. L. K. 61. Neither of the complainants could have maintained his bill against the unknown heirs of the several persons alleged to have been interested in the title to this land, all of whom are necessary parties. This statute authorizes the suit, but it expressly makes it a condition, "that such complainant before the emanation of any process, or making any order against such heirs, do file in the clerk's office, with his or her bill, an affidavit, stating that he or she does not know the names of such heirs. The want of this affidavit made the bill demurrable, the decree liable to be set aside, or reversed, on an appeal or writ of error. In the case of Hynes v. Oldham, fall term, 1826, page 267, this court says, "such an affidavit is expressly required by the act which authorizes a bill in chancery to be filed against unknown heirs, and the want of it would be undoubtedly fatal on demurrer, and even render the decree erroneous; and liable to be set aside, where it has been, as in this case, pronounced upon the bill taken for confessed, for want of an appearance of the defendants." *18 If a decree had been rendered by the General Court for Blight, giving him the relief he prayed, it would have been "erroneous and liable to be set aside." And if so, it is respectfully insisted this court will not reverse the decree dismissing his bill--Except it be merely because the dismissal is absolute, where as it may be said it ought to have been without prejudice; but in such a reversal no costs will be decreed. Galloway and Hamilton, fall term, 1826, page 270, and many other cases. In the mandate, the court has directed a decree to be rendered, that all the defendants, including, of course, all the unknown heirs, release and convey to Blight's heirs all the land except the nineteen hundred acres. And yet if the counsel understand the case of Hynes against Oldham, had such a decree been pronounced against these unknown heirs on the hearing in the General Court, it would have been erroneous and liable to be reversed or set aside. These unknown heirs are appellees in Blight's appeal. There is an affidavit of one of Blight's counsel, made on the filing of an amended bill, and a bill of revivor against Richard Claiborne, stating that the persons and names of the heirs of Claiborne were unknown to him, and he verily believed they were unknown to his client, Samuel Blight. And there is another affidavit of another of Blight's counsel, swearing without qualification to an amended bill, in which it is alleged the heirs of Claiborne, and a number of other persons were unknown to the complainant, but that they were all non-residents of this state. The statute prescribes the proof the court shall require before it proceeds in a cause against the unknown. It says the complainant shall swear, he or she does not know. The reasons are so obvious and unanswerable against such a departure from the unambiguous law as would be required to permit a lawyer to swear, in his client's stead, to his client's ignorance of a fact, that is not believed it would be respectful to the tribunal to dwell upon it. It is presumed, the objection, for the want of the complainant's affidavit escaped the court; we are sure the court has not taken those of his lawyers as a substitute for it. The orders of publication against the absentees who have not answered, are insufficient; the publication of them, and the evidence thereof, we would respectfully insist, are all insufficient. As to the orders of publication, Blight never obtained but two; at all events he never attempted to publish more. The first, was when he filed his original bill in the Hardin circuit court, at the April term, 1814, (before the passage of the law authorizing the proceedings against the unknown heirs). This order is against H. Banks, R. Claiborne, J. Trenchard, the heirs of D. Allison, B. Allison, the heirs of W. Shannon, Will Tilghman, J. Hopkinson, Thomas Compton, Samuel Jones, James Ewing, J. Keighan, J. Fries, Guy Bryant, John Lisle. This was for eight weeks. The other order was obtained in the General Court, January term, 1825; and is against the unknown heirs of said Claiborne, Trenchard, D. Allison, B. Allison, William Shannon, Thomas Ewing, Samuel Jones, J. Keighan, and new parties introduced after the original bill, David Barbour, Colburn Barrett, Henry Servantees, Pierre Louis Philip Galbott De Lomerie, omitting the following, who are included in the first order, William Tilghman, Joseph Hopkinson, Thomas Compton, John Fries, Guy Bryant, and John Lisle. *19 We would insist the first order is defective, in not directing the publication to be made for two months, and in expressly requiring it to be made for eight weeks. It seems to us, it had better been wholly silent as to the publication, and left that matter with the complainant and printer. To prove the insertion of this order in the newspaper for two months, an affidavit of an individual is relied upon. We object to its competency. No statute authorized the justice to administer such an oath, and no usage of equity allowed any such proofs. But the other day, a cause was reversed, because the only proof of the service of a subpoena was an affidavit of a private individual, that he had executed it by delivering a copy made before a justice of the peace, and filed in the record. If this objection could be gotten over, the affidavit does not prove enough. It is sworn to in Breckenridge on the 22d day of July, 1814, four days after the commencement of the July term, on the first day of which, the order required the absent defendants to appear, and it only states, that the order had been published in nine newspapers since the last term of the Breckenridge circuit court, one in each week successively. It does not say these nine papers were all published before the commencement of the then current term of the court. One may have been published on the Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday of the first week of the term and yet the affidavit be strictly true. And if the last paper had been published even the Saturday before court, and each of the others on the same day of the eight preceding weeks, there were yet not two calandar months from the publication of the paper in which the order was first inserted to the first day of the July term; it would be only fifty-eight days; the case of Miller against Hall and Hanks, 3d Monroe, case 85, page 242 is conclusive. For the same uncertainty as to whether the publications had been made prior to the term, the absentees were required to appear, the decree is reversed. And the court refused to enter into any construction of the affidavit but held the complainant to a strict compliance with the law. As evidence of the publication of the other order, there is a certificate of Amos Kendall, who styles himself one of the editors. The law requires the certificate of the printer. We think the printer of a paper and the publisher of a paper may be, and are in fact, frequently, very different persons from the editor; and as the law has given this credit to the certificate of the printer and not to the editor, we do not think the court ought to extend this innovation on the common law and usage. It is a rule of construction that the common law shall not be repealed, but by express enactment or necessary implication. The title of De Lomerie, we would again respectfully insist, passed to Lewis, by the sale of the Register of the Land-Office. The court decide that he acquired by the conveyance to him, all the land embraced by the lines of the deed, though the quantity is called but 5,277 acres, and it appears there are actually included within the line, twenty thousand acres and upwards. And as we understand the record, the same tract of land conveyed to De Lomerie, was sold for the taxes, by the two sales, and passed by the Register's deed. *20 We would make no remark on the answer of Banks, but for regard for the feelings of that gentleman. We do not understand him at any time to acknowledge that the deeds are genuine; but confiding in other matters of defense, he was willing to admit the deeds, if those facts were conceded to him. The counsel of the complainant understood him thus, and not willing to grant his terms, presented an amendment requesting an explicit answer. And he then expressly negatives the instruments. Still he is supposed to labor under a weighty consciousness of their truth. But the deeds are said to be proved by depositions taken in another suit, copies of which are filed in this. There Banks was no party. An order of peculiar caution was made on the calling of this cause by consent. All documents and proofs were excepted to, and every exception reserved to be made with full effect in this court. And a decree was pronounced by consent, with a reservation of every right. Whatever testimony should have been rejected in that court must now be excluded. Banks is not bound by depositions taken between others. This is acknowledged. But it is relied that Lewis made an agreement to read them, that Lewis became agent of Banks, by a subsequent agreement, in which Banks affirmed that arrangement. And that Blight filed his bill and compelled the production of the agreement between Banks and Lewis. Now this supposed agreement between Lewis and Blight is not proved, nor do we find that it was ever recognized by rule of court; nor when it was deposited among the papers. We do not admit it binding on Lewis. It is certain a bill in chancery was filed, calling forth an agreement between Lewis and Banks. The object not very distinctly avowed. But let it be, that it was to give effect to a side bar arrangement, for the reading of irregular depositions. Truly a singular bill. In all other cases, unless the parties assent in court to informal testimony, the court rejects and requires the defect shall be supplied. May we not presently have bills in chancery to continue suits. The papers, however, are brought forth. And it does not appear when this alleged arrangement between Blight and Lewis was filed; nor that Banks ever saw or heard of it; nor ever approved or disapproved. He did constitute Lewis his agent, to prosecute and defend suits, and expressly bound himself by agreements of Lewis, made or to be made for a compensation of his attornies, &c. &c. We do not believe any thing can be found in those writings in any shape refering to the agreement between Lewis and Blight, about those depositions. Presently, however, Banks and Lewis assume cross attitudes and thus continue. We say that when this arrangement was entered into, Lewis had no authority from Banks. That the writing expressive of that arrangement does not purport to bind Banks; that Lewis, at no time after he acquired power from Banks, did any thing calculated to bind Banks; and that Banks, if it be genuine, neither knew or approved of it. How can they be read against Banks. A rehearing is, therefore, respectfully solicited. Judge Mills delivered the opinion of the Court on the petition for the rehearing. *21 In pursuance of the petition for a rehearing, we have reviewed the former opinion in these appeals, as well as re-examined the extraordinary and confused record, and do not feel willing to retract a single principle before advanced. The opinion, it is true, is written with a "running pen," and indeed, necessarily so, lest the long detail of facts necessary to be recited, when added to a lengthy discussion of the principles involves, should swell the opinion to an extraordinary length. Our attention is again invited to the main points, to-wit: the jurisdiction of a court of equity over the bill, and the lien claimed by Banks upon the land. It is true that bills to make legal titles which are valid against all the world, except two description of persons, recorded titles, and thus to protect them from creditors and innocent purchasers, have not been frequent. But if such bills can not be allowed under one state of conveyances, it must certainly be said that there is a defect of justice in our country. A court of common law can give no relief in such a case, and if equity can not do it, then is the case a hopeless one. Equity has jurisdiction to order new deeds of conveyance to be executed, where the originals are not registered, that they may be recorded to protect the estate from the creditors and purchasers of the grantors. If, however, the principles which govern courts of equity are examined, it will be found that there are many circumstances in this case, independent of defective conveyances, which sustains the jurisdiction. Courts of equity will aid titles defective in the formalities of law, supply deficiencies, and even enforce legal titles, where the evidence can not be got at, in a court of law, and even where it can, if many suits can be prevented, or where the title is much entangled, equity will entertain jurisdiction of the matter. If these and other principles of the jurisdiction of courts of equity are scrutinized, and this record is examined, the mind must be sceptical, which still contests the jurisdiction. Equity will aid titles defectives in formalities, supply deficiencies, enforce legal titles, where the evidence can not be adduced in the common law court or take jurisdiction, merely to save a multiplicity of suits, or clear an entangled title. As to the lien claimed by Banks, it is still less tenable. He had personal security, and the present holder of the legal estate is an innocent purchaser. Liens of this nature do not follow unregistered more than registered conveyances; and why must he have his lien, when he is not asked for a title, but to furnish those who claim under him with a recorded deed? Barely it is said, because he is a defendant. If he be a defendant must he be permitted to do iniquity, before he does equity. A sells to B a tract of land, and conveys it by an unrecorded deed, but takes personal security for the price. B sells to C, who is ignorant that any thing is due to A, and also conveys by an unrecorded deed; C loses both deeds, and comes into a court of equity, to be relieved from the accident; A refuses relief till he shall pay him the price of the land; not on the ground that he has any right to it in law or conscience from C, but because he is a defendant, and C, because he is complainant, must suffer gross injustice; must with his deeds lose the price of the land. To state such a proposition refutes it. *22 It is no defence for the patentee against the bill of the remote alienee, brought for a new deed to be recorded, that he had not received his purchase money, where it appears he had taken personal security--The attitude of defendant gives the party in such case no advantage. It is insisted that we ought not to bind Banks by the agreement of Lewis to read depositions admitted by Lewis, because the written agreement of Lewis is not proved, and this is insisted upon, because the cause under the agreement of the parties, is to be tried here as it would have been in the court below. We might almost as well be told that we ought not to admit bills or answers, unless they were first proven to be genuine. If the parties have supposed that this consent could give original jurisdiction to this court, they were mistaken. A written agreement touching the management of the cause, filed by the parties and signed by themselves or counsel, where the court below knows the hand writing, or can bring the parties before it, are read as much in causes as the pleadings, and if it is to be questioned here, and the original papers are to be brought up, and their genuineness to be here proved for the first time, by living witnesses or new depositions, then we would be converting this court into one of original jurisdiction, and we disavow such a power. We conceive the depositions are admissible under this agreement, and that both Lewis' representatives as well as Banks, under his agreement with Lewis, are bound by them, and the agreement was not questioned below. An agreement of parties filed in the circuit court touching the management of a cause, and there used, regarded and given effect here. But various objections are taken to the orders of publication, as not authorizing the bill to be taken as confessed against absent defendants, and that without the confession, many of the intermediate conveyances can not be read against Lewis or Banks. It is true the opinion is expressed that the silence of the absent defendants, or their tacit confession might be used against Lewis and Banks, so far as they had no interest affected by the confession, and so we still suppose. But on a more critical examination of the record and the decree rendered, it will be found not necessary to resort to this principle, except with regard to one single conveyance. It ought to be recollected that these absent defendants are not complaining, nor are they appellants, but it is Lewis' devisees and Banks who complain for them. As the whole of the conveyances, to be used from these absent defendants, pass the legal estate, and the objection is, that they are not recorded, it is not necessary that these absentees should be before the court, except to have the benefit of their confession, or to procure renewed conveyances from them, if the complainant should choose to proceed against them for that purpose. But if the proof shews that these conveyances, to and from these absentees, were executed, they can not be necessary parties before relief can be obtained against Lewis and Banks. One objection is, that the confession obtained by the complainant, is by order of publication against unknown heirs, when there was no affidavit made by the complainant, but only by his attorney or agent, to obtain these orders. We will see how many of these unknown heirs were necessary parties. *23 It is not necessary in a bill by a remote alienee of the patentee, for a renewed deed, to be registered, that all the intermediate grantors and grantees be parties, if their deeds be proved. In the first place the unknown heirs of De Lomerie are in this publication. They were unnecessary, because Blight has a conveyance from De Lomerie, recorded in due form of law, and the conveyance to De Lomerie from Banks and Claiborne is admitted. Deeds of the intermediate parties, how proved, &c. The unknown heirs of Richard Claiborne are next. They are also unnecessary, because Claiborne, after his conveyances to De Lomerie and Trenchard, conveyed the whole tract to Banks, by deed duly acknowledged and recorded in the Bardstown District Court, within eighteen months after its sealing and delivery, which was in due time, and places Banks in the room of both himself and Claiborne. This conveyance was not noticed in the original opinion as not supposed necessary; but it leaves the complainant in a situation to omit him as a necessary party. Trenchard, David Allison and Burges Allison are next, whose heirs are called upon as unknown. These conveyances as stated in the original opinion as admitted. Shannon remains as to David Allison's share of the title, and his unknown heirs are among the number. The conveyances from David Allison to him, and from him to Bryan, Lyle and Fries, are both satisfactorily proved, and as to Bryan, Lyle and Fries they have conveyed to Blight by deed duly recorded, and they were, therefore, unnecessary parties. Ewing, Jones and Keigham are the remaining decedents, whose unknown heirs are involved. By examining the conveyances from Ewing and Jones to Keighan; from Keighan back to them; from Ewing to Jones, and from Jones to Blight, it will be found that they were all acknowledged before the Mayor of Philadelphia, and recorded in the general court of this State, within the time prescribed by law, and there was no need of bringing either them or their heirs before the court. The only remaining conveyance, is that from Compton, Tilghman and Hopkins to Ewing and Jones, the genuineness of which is not proved, and which is recorded properly, except as to the time, and the execution of it must, therefore, rest on their confession by their not appearing. They are living defendants, and against them publication has been made. The affidavit that the publication has been made, has been objected to, because it was made after the appearance day, and one of the nine insertions in the paper proved by it, might have been after the day of appearance. Certificates of publication of orders against absent defendants, what certainty required. If this affidavit is wholly disregarded, a minute examination of the record will disclose, that there is other proof of this publication, made by the editor of the paper, that the order was properly inserted. This permits the complainants to avail themselves of this conveyance. Editors whether the printers or not may make such certificates--See the statement of the facts, in the petition, page 218, and the record of the case. *24 But on re-examining these orders of publication, as to the unknown heirs of Trenchard, Barrett, Servantes and Barbour, for the purpose of setting aside the leases and contracts between Trenchard, on one side, and Barrett, Servantes and Barbour on the other, (a branch of the case with which Banks or Lewis has no concern) we conceive that the order is insufficient, because there was no affidavit of the party to warrant it, and no reason shown why he was incapable of making such affidavit. It follows therefore, that the complainants below, will not be entitled to such decree against these unknown defendants, on the return of the cause, as the original opinion directs, until these parties are brought before the court by proper publication or process, if the complainants shall see proper to proceed against them. Want of an affidavit of the complainant, that he does not know the names of the persons sued as unknown heirs is error--such affidavit can be made by none but complainant, unless it appear why he could not make it:--query, as to what would excuse him. Upon a further examination of the decree brought before us for revision, we conceive it did not dispose of the cause finally, as to those absent defendants, although the cause came on to be heard as to them. The decree that was rendered, was by consent, and it was agreed that that consent should not prejudice the rights of the parties on an appeal. As the absent defendants were not there to assent, and all that was done was by consent, nothing is done yet as to them. Decree by consent, held to be a decree between only the parties who had appeared, excluding the absent defendants. Their cases, therefore, or as many of them as the complainants may see cause to proceed against, for releases or other relief, are left under the power and direction of the court below. Correction of the mandate. So much, therefore, of the first opinion as conflicts with this, is set aside, and the former decree and mandate of this court, is to be so amended, as to direct only Banks and Lewis' executors to convey the land as in the first decree is directed. The residue of the petition is overruled. Talbot and Darby, for Blight's heirs; Haggin and Mayes, for Banks; Monroe, for Lewis' executors. Ky.App. 1827. Blight's Heirs v. Banks' Ex'rs 6 T.B.Mon. 192, 22 Ky. 192, 1827 WL 1669 (Ky.), 17 Am.Dec. 136 END OF DOCUMENT
