(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 594,  10 Ky. 594 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1182 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Loftus et al. v. Martin Mitchell. Jun. 1, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE WARREN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(2) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(2) k. Rights of Settlers and Occupants. Most Cited  Cases Under the act granting vacant lands to settlers, and requiring personal residence, a settlement by proxy will not answer the requirement of the law, and the certificate holder is bound to show the place of his actual settlement, if it be called for as a locative object, or gives figure to the survey. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A survey bounded and resided on by the owner is presumed to be notorious, and furnishes a good locative call for an adjoining entry. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The appellee filed his bill in chancery to be relieved against an adverse certificate and elder grant. The certificate against which he craves relief, is posterior in date to his own, and therefore need not be noticed. Both certificates and entries were made under an act of assembly of this state, entitled "An act for settling and improving the vacant lands of this commonwealth."  2 Litt. 420. The claim of the appellee, which presents the main question, is based on a certificate in the following words, to wit: "Warren county, sce. November court, 1801?? I do hereby certify that Joseph Fisher is entitled to four hundred acres of land, by virtue of his having taken up and improved the same agreeable to an act of assembly for settling vacant lands in this state; to wit: Joseph Fisher enters four hundred acres of land lying on the northwest side of big Barren river; beginning on the southwest corner of David Rice's land, beginning on a black jack, running northeastwardly with his line till it strikes the widow Mitchel's line; thence binding on her line, to run as the law directs for quantity." An entry on this certificate was made with the surveyor of the county, on the 7th May, 1808, containing precisely the same calls with the certificate, and therefore need not be recited. This claim having been assigned to the appellee, it was surveyed and carried into grant in his own name. The court below sustained the equity of the appellee and gave relief; from which decree this appeal is prayed. On the 13th and 26th of August, 1799, Jane Mitchel had two surveys made in her own name, adjoining each other. The one claimed by the appellee, as his locative object, is in her name as assignee of another person, and the adjoining one in her own right. This additional circum stance of the claim being derivative, can not, we conceive, affect the call in the appellee's entry; because it was still Jane Mitchel's survey, and her having obtained the claim by assignment, and it being afterwards surveyed in her name, ought to answer the call of the adjoining locator, although she has omitted to state how she derived the claim. These two surveys are each in a square adjoining each other, the full length of one line, and each the quantity of 200 acres, and the one in the individual right of Jane Mitchel, is placed behind the one she claims as assignee with regard to the appellee's entry if he is to commence at Rice's corner and extend agreeably to his calls to Jane Mitchel's line. It is abundantly proved that Jane Mitchel was better known by the name "widow Mitchel" than she was by her Christian name, Jane; and that at the date of her surveys, and afterwards till some time subsequent to the certificate of the appellee, she resided on the 200 acres which she claimed as assignee, and kept a public house on the main road leading through the country. From these circumstances, the notoriety of her survey, according to repeated decisions of this court, ought to be presumed, even if other testimony as to that notoriety was silent. But this is not the fact. For if we cast from the record the testimony of two witnessess, whose characters have been vitally and successfully assailed, we still have enough to show that her surveys were in fact notorious, and that it was well understood by those acquainted in the neighborhood that she had such surveys there, and many knew the precise position of her corners and lines. We are told in the location of the appellee that he is to run northeastwardly from or along Rice's line to the widow Mitchel. This call being reversed, would enable any person to understand the relative position of Rice with regard to the widow Mitchel's and assist in determining which claim of Rice was intended. Rice had several different surveys made in July, 1800. But all of them, except two, are situated at the distance of three or four miles at least from the widow Mitchel's surveys, which totally destroys the idea that they could have been intended as a locative object in conjunction with her claims, in locating the quantity of four hundred acres. Those, then, which are in her neighborhood alone, can set up any claim to fill the calls of the location in question. It is not shown that any person resided on these surveys; but we conceive that they are shown to be notorious in proof and could, at the date of appellee's certificate, have been found on using reasonable diligence. These two surveys of Rice contain each two hundred acres, in a square adjoining each other, the length of one line; and the course of one of them approaches within about forty poles of the side of Jane Mitchel, assignee of Smith. There can be no reasonable doubt which of these surveys of David Rice was intended. For if the appellee is to begin at the southwest angle of the northwestern survey of Rice, pursuant to his calls, he has no black jack as a corner which actually exists at the proper corner of the southeastern survey, and to comply with the next call of running ""northeastwardly with Rice's line," he must run with the division line between Rice's two surveys, and so include one of them in his own claim. Besides running with this line of Rice northeastwardly, he never could touch, by extending his course, either of the widow Mitchel's surveys. These considerations repel the idea that the northwestern survey was intended, and renders it certain that the southeastern one is designed. We therefore conceive that the calls of the appellee's location for Rice's and Mitchel's surveys, are good, and well supported in proof, and must be sustained unless some other objection taken to this location shall prove fatal to it. *2 A survey actually bounded and resided on by the owner, will be presumed to be notorious, and furnishes a good locative call for an adjoining entry. When an entry calls to adjoin the survey of another, when that other has various surveys in the same vicinity, the selection of the survey to be adjoined will be governed by the superior aptitude of one of the other calls of the appendant entry. It has been contended in argument that the act under which this claim was located, as well as at least one more amendatory act required that a warrant should be obtained from the register, reciting the location, before any entry was made, with the surveyor, or survey executed; and that the want of such a warrant, must be fatal to this claim. It is true that the original act did require such warrant, and the payment of the state price before such warrant could be obtained. The entry with the surveyor must be made according to this warrant, and the warrant was the only authority to the surveyor. If these directions of this act were left to govern this case, it would be hard to remove the objection. But by the first section of an act passed on the 23d Dec. 1803,  3 Litt. 132, it is provided "that any person who has heretofore obtained, or shall hereafter receive, a certificate for land, by virtue of an act entitled "an act for settling and improving the vacant lands of this commonwealth," it shall and may be lawful for any such person, to enter and survey the whole or any part of the land called for in his or her certificate, and such survey shall be recorded in the surveyor's office; and on a plat and certificate of such survey being returned to the register's office., and the money with the interest due thereon to the state being paid a patent shall issue as in other cases." By the act of 1803 respecting the vacant lands of this commonwealth, a warrant is dispensed with, and a survey may be made and patent issued on payment of the state price. This act evidently dispenses with a warrant and authorizes a survey on the certificate. Anterior to that time the warrant was not only an authority to survey, but evidence of the price being discharged. The authority to survey, by this act, is complete and the payment of the state price indulged till afterwards, and then a patent was allowed without a warrant. The warrant is not dispensed with in express words; but the effect of the act recited, dispenses with it without such express direction, and no warrant after that period could be necessary. It is also objected to this claim that two surveys were executed upon it before that on which the patent emanat ed, the first dated May 12, 1808, and the second on the 12th June, 1812. As to the first of these surveys, it is proved that it was done under the direction of a friend of the owner, intending it for him, without any authority, and the survey was disclaimed by the owner so soon as he was informed of it, and he never acquiesed in that survey. This having been done without authority from the owner, either express or implied, and not having received his subsequent approbation, it can not bind or affect him as was decided by this court in the case of Calloway's heirs vs. Webb, 1 Marsh. 129. As to the second survey, the want of authority from the holder or owner is not shown or proved, and we must presume it to have been made by the proper officer under his direction. But this survey is only made for part of the quantity, and as far as we can ascertain from the record the whole of it is included in the last survey on which the patent issued. So far then as the old survey went, the patent includes the ground together with some additional land to make up the quantity. According to the principles settled by this court in the case of Estill, &c., vs. Hart's heirs, Har. 567, this second survey of part, can not affect the last for the whole quantity; and the whole objection, founded on former surveys, utterly fails. *3 A survey made without the authority of the owner of an entry, does not merge an entry or operate an injury to a subsequent survey; nor does a survey made by authority of the owner of a part of an entry abridge the owner's right to survey the whole, provided the survey of a part is included in the survey of the whole. It is objected in the answers that the assignor of the appellee was not such a settler as was entitled to the claim. To this it may be answered that the certificate of the county court is conclusive against the commonwealth, and all subsequent purchasers from it, as to the right of the holder of the certificate, and can not be questioned. The appellants having derived their claim from the government posterior to the date of the appellees certificate have no right to enquire into this matter. The certificate of the county court of applicant's right, is conclusive against the commonwealth, and all subsequent purchasers from her. The validity then of the appellees' entry must rest on the question, 1st. Whether it can be surveyed at all by its calls? and 2dly. If it can be surveyed, what is the true mode? Beginning at Rice's corner, as before determined and running it with Rice's line and continuing the course to the widow Mitchell's line, is a length of 214 poles; turning then with Mitchell's line, an acute angle of the survey is formed and Mitchell's line is continued only seventy-six poles. To run from that point to the beginning would include but a small portion of the quantity and that no part of the land in controversy. To extend Mitchell's line, and also another line parallel thereto, until the quantity was included by a line at right angles, would be giving a construction to the entry which the law forbids, by declaring "that no location or survey which shall be made in virtue of this act, shall in its length, exceed its breadth more than one-third, unless interrupted by prior claims only." No prior claims are shown here to authorize the extension, and the locator has forbid it by directing us to run "as the law directs." It is evident then that this latter call must fix the figure of the survey, or it can not be done at all. By the act appropriating the vacant lands of the commonwealth, an actual personal residence is necessary, and the county courts possess a power to grant certificates to such persons only--a settlement by proxy will not do, and the certificate holder is bound to shew the place of his actual settlement, if it be called for as a locative object, or conduces to give figure to the survey. The meaning of such a call never has been investigated by this court, as far as we have been able to ascertain; and great doubts are entertained whether it ought to be regarded. The law directed the locator himself to fix the position of his claim, "by a special location, describing as accurately as may be, the land contemplated to be included." It would then be a decision of considerable indulgence, which would allow the locator to shift this duty from his shoulders and refer back to the law, the shape of his location. *4 Give it the most favorable construction we can, we can not say that it means more than the court below has said, to wit: "to include his settlement."  ""To include his improvement" is the expression of that court, but we use settlement, as most proper to comply with the law. It will be seen by an examination of the act, under which his claim originated that nothing less than an actual, personal settlement and residence would comply with it, as is evident from the expressions, "provided that he or she actually settles or resides thereon." Another proviso prohibits those who had located under former laws from obtaining only an addition of two hundred acres; and the seventh section requires an actual and bona fide settlement, and two years residence, before the emanation of the grant, and prohibited during this period any alienation, From these expressions it is evident that settlement, by substitution, could not comply with the law. In this respect this act is different from the act of 1779, which gave birth to settlements and pre-emptions under the laws of Virginia. That act, see  1 Litt. 395, after the expressions, "have really and bona fide settled themselves or their families," adds the words, "or at his, her, or their charge, have settled others," which authorizes the performance of the service by proxy. No such expressions are employed in the act in question, and no such practice was intended to be indulged by the legislature. To include the spot where Fisher, the original holder settled himself, and not the spot where he settled others, or set them at labor for him, must be intended by his call "as the law directs," if he intends anything. Such a spot has not been shown or identified in proof. To substitute such proof he has shown an improvement made by another individual for him before the date of the certificate; but this is not his settlement, and to take it as a locative call intended by the expressions, "as the law directs," would be including that which the law did not direct, and actually disallowed.--Proof, however, is attempted and made that this is the very improvement for which the county court granted the certificate. Such proof must, however, be disregarded as incompetent. If the certificate is conclusive against the opposite party as to every fact necessary to its validity, and that of actual settlement among the rest, it ought to be equally so against the appellee, and he ought not to be permitted to prove that the county court violated the law by granting him an improper certificate for the purpose of sustaining his claim against his adversary, who on this subject must be silent. But if such evidence is admissible to prove that the county court granted the certificate for services which the law did not recognize, and such is to be taken as the fact, ought subsequent locators upon reading this location, and upon giving to the expression "as the law directs" the same meaning as including Fisher's improvement, be compelled also to take knowledge that the county court had violated the law and granted an improper certificate, for an improvement made by substitution. and that this was the improvement intended? This would be giving great latitude to the expression, "as the law directs," and make it mean to include objects legal and illegal, which can not be indulged. *5 It may be supposed that this reasoning will, in effect, open the decision of the county courts as to such certificates. Such a consequence, however, is not intended.--Two purposes may be answered by the settlement of the party; first, to entitle him to the claim, and secondly, it may be used as a locative object. If it is used for the latter purpose it must, like all other calls, be identified and shown. Suppose the call in this case to be express, "to include his settlement," would the appellee not be compelled to identify such place? Could it be pretended that proof of a spot, where another settled, would answer the purpose? Suppose a certificate with such call only, without any other, could it be sustained without showing the place? In such case it must be taken as true, that such place existed;--nay, carry the doctrine farther, and say that the certificate itself must be taken as conclusive, that the improvement was within a claim, which had other locative objects; yet if the position of the improvement, or settlement, could affect the figure of the claim by the calls, its position must be identified and shown. Improvements are frequently called for in village rights, under the laws of Virginia, altho' they were of no other use to such claims than other locative objects. In such case, however, they must be proved as such. The same may be said as to actual settlements under the same laws. If the place of settlement is adopted as a locative object, it must be shown to exist as described, and can not be supplied by any other object, except where the holder, or one at his charge actually settled. There is then a difference between enquiring into the true situation and character of an improvement, when used as a locative object, and impeaching the claim because it was granted for an improper settlement and residence. To give then the most latitudinous construction to the call in question, we conceive that the position or object intended by it is not shown or proved, and that for this cause the claim of the appellee, as to the land in controversy, must be held invalid, and that the decree below must be reversed with costs, and directions given to that court to dissolve the injunction and dismiss the bill with costs. Pope for appellant, Bibb for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Loftus v. Mitchel 3 A.K.Marsh. 594, 10 Ky. 594, 1821 WL 1182 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
