(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 100,  17 Ky. 100 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1499 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Trimble and Garrett v. Webb and Taylor. Oct. 13, 1824. *1 Assignor and Assignee. APPEAL FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 325 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(C) Assignment or Sale 56k323 Recourse by Assignee to Assignor 56k325 k. Necessity of Proceeding Against Maker. Most  Cited Cases Delay for three months after the term in suing out an execution on a judgment obtained against the obligor in a note is conclusive against the assignee's claim to recover of the assignor. Bonds 58 k 87 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k87 k. Rights and Liabilities on Assignment or Sale. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k90) A mortgage of the obligor's estate to the assignor, to indemnify him against the recoil of the demand, does not dispense with the necessity of due diligence by suit. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. To secure a debt due from Thomas J. Garrett to Lane and Taylor, Garrett executed his note to David Trimble and Ashton Garrett, who had promised to be come his endorsers, and they endorsed the note in blank and delivered it to said Lane and Taylor, who, having transferred the debt to the present appellees, delivered to them the note, and they filled up the endorsement to themselves. This note became due on the 20th of November, 1819, and to the next term of the circuit court in and for the county where Thomas J. Garrett resided, the appellees issued their writ of capias ad respondendum, on said note, against him, in an action of debt, and at said term, to-wit, on the 4th of April, 1820, obtained a judgment, and the court adjourned on the 14th of the same month. The appellees issued no execution on their judgment, until the 26th day of July following, upwards of three months after the adjournment aforesaid, and then they issued a fieri facias, which was returned by the sheriff, "levied on sundry articles of property, which were claimed by J. D. Everett, as trustee of said Thomas J. Garrett, and found by the jury to belong to said Everett, or not to be subject to the execution, and that no more property was found." They then speedily issued a capias ad satisfaciendum, by which the body of the debtor was taken and committed to prison, where he remained until the passage of the act of assembly abolishing imprisonment for debt, when he was brought before a justice of the peace, who discharged him pursuant to that act, because he stood committed on process in a civil case. The appellees then issued a second fieri facias against him, which was returned "no property found." They then commenced this action against David Trimble and Ashton Garrett, the assignors, to subject them, on their responsibility created by their assignment, to the contents of the note. *2 On the trial of the issue of non assumpsit, in this cause, these facts were proved, and a motion was thereupon made, to instruct the jury as in case of a nonsuit, ??elying mainly upon the ground that the plaintiffs had not used such due and reasonable diligence as entitled them to their recourse against the assignors, in this action. The instructions moved by the defendants in the circuit court. The court overruled the motion, and instructed the ??ury, that, under the circumstances of this case, the ??iligence used in pursuing the debtor, Thomas J. Garrett, as shown by the evidence, amounted to due and ??egal diligence. Instructions given by the circuit court. To this point, with many others, an exception was taken, and the jury having found a verdict for the appellees, from the judgment rendered thereon this appeal was prayed, and this point, with many others, is relied on to reverse the judgment, and it first claims the consideration of this court. (1.) The only chasm in the diligence exercised by the appellees in prosecuting their suit against the original debtor, appears between the judgment and execution. For this delay no apology was offered, or excuse proved. This court has never held assignees to more than reasonable diligence in prosecuting the demand against the original debtors, and has never required them to "run a race against time;" still it has not permitted any unreasonable delay to be passed over. The time here lost, is more than any prudent man would have adjudged in?? when he believed his debt in danger, and savors too strongly of indulgence graciously given, by some under??standing between the parties. Considering this case as we have stated it, uncoupled with any other circum??stances in the cause, we must, according to previous decisions of the court, hold the delay as conclusive against the appellees' right to recover. (1) Delay in suing out execution on a judgment obtained in due time against the obligor, for three months after the term, is conclusive against the assignee's right to recover against the assignor. But there are some other circumstances in the case to which we suppose the court alluded, in the instruction given, as sufficient to make this case an exception, to which we will now attend. Further statement of the case. Thomas J. Garrett, the debtor, after the endorsement of the appellants, executed to them a mortgage on sundry articles of property and some real estate, expressing on its fact that it was to secure them for some other demands for which they were jointly bound with him; to secure, also, an open store account due them and further credit in the store and advancements to the amount of $3,000, and to indemnify them for their endorsements for him to Lane and Taylor, to the amount of ten thousand dollars, of which, the note in question was the last of third part thereof, still due; and finally to secure them for all demands whatever. Obligor's mortgage to assignor. *3 After this, and just before the note in question be??came due, he also executed to S. D. Everett, a deed o?? trust, to secure certain persons therein named, who ha?? become sureties for him to John W. Hunt, in a considerable sum of money. This last deed included lands slaves and personal estate, a part of which appears t?? be the same property mortgaged to the appellees, and the residue different property. Obligor's deed of trust to Everett. After he was discharged from imprisonment under the capias ad satisfaciendum, at the suit of the appellees, he also assigned to one of the appellants the estate included in Everett's deed of trust, and which had not been included in their first mortgage, to indemnify them against the danger of this assignment; and before the trial of this suit, the appellants filed their bill on these mortgages, suggesting their danger, and praying that all the estate might be disposed of, and applied to this debt. Second mortgage of the obligor to one of the assignors. Assignors' bill to foreclose the mortgage. It was also proved by witnesses, that after the execution of Everett's deed, he was reputed or said to be insolvent, and that they knew of no other estate, besides what was included in the two deeds to Everett and the appellants, although, during the year, 1820, while the executions of the appellees for this demand were or might have been operating upon him, he had paid divers sum of money of others. Evidence of the obligor's circumstances. These circumstances all appeared in evidence on the part of the plaintiffs below, before the court refused to nonsuit them; and the inquiry is, whether they ought to have made any difference in the decision. (2.) Ever since the case of Smallwood v. Woods, 1 Bibb 524, and indeed before, assignees have been held to reasonable diligence by suit, and nothing has been held sufficient to excuse the prosecution of legal remedies, in the case of general assignments, where the person of the debtor was amenable to the process of law, and there was no fraud. Moreover, remedy by law must be pursued in all its ramifications, and to its full extent, before any recourse can be had. (2) The assignor must emplay, against the debtor, where he is amenable to process, the remedy afforded by law, in its ramifications and to its full extent, before any recovery can be had. (3.) Evidence of insolvency, other than that proved by the force of execution itself, has never been held sufficient to charge the assignor; of course, the supposed insolvency of Garrett, and the execution of the deeds of trust, could not excuse it. (3) Evidence of insolvency, other than that proved by force of the execution itself, has never been held sufficient to charge the assignor. (4.) And if suit is brought at all, we know of no good reason why such deeds of trust or insolvency should authorize the person to proceed more leisurely than in other cases. We are unwilling to introduce the perplexity that would arise from such a rule, in determining what degree of negligence should or should not be excused, under such circumstances. Neither the deeds themselves nor the supposed insolvency of Garrett, as proved, can aid the case of the appellees. *4 (4) That it appears all the debtor's estate was covered by deeds of trust, and by evidence dehors the case, that he was insolvent, does not authorize the assignee to proceed more leisurely than in other cases. (5.) But the most important question that can arise, is, as two of these mortgages were executed to the appellants themselves, to indemnify them against this very debt, ought this to make any difference in the law of the case? We conceive not. We need not say what rule ought to have governed, if these mortgages had obstructed the operation of the execution of the appellees. This, however, does not appear to have been the case. We need not enquire whether these mortgages ought or ought not to operate for the benefit of the appellees, and whether a court of equity might not compel their assignment, and substitute the appellees in lieu of the appellants, as to the title conferred; for our inquiry now is into the legal liability of the appellants. This arises from the principle, that money paid for a consideration that happens to fail, may be recovered back, provided the assignee has taken the proper steps to prove its failure, by suit, and the assignor has not been instrumental in producing the failure. Every such note is assigned with the understanding that if suit diligently prosecuted to the extent, is ineffectual, the assignor shall restore what he receives, or make good the injury which he has occasioned. We can not see how taking a mortgage for indemnity, afterwards, should in any manner alter that understanding, or discharge the holder from any diligence to which he was bound before. If it has discharged him from any part of that diligence, it may be asked, to what extent? If it allows him the negligence of three months, why not of ten, or a hundred, or a thousand; or why not dispense with suit altogether, from the moment the mortgage is taken? The mortgages were more calculated to secure the property from other demands, and save it for this, than to remove the effect of this claim from it. The assignees were, therefore, bound to use as much diligence afterwards, as before. (5) The mortgage of the obligor's estate to the assignor, to indemnify him against the recoil of the demand, does not dispense with the necessity of due diligence by suit. (6.) It has been urged, that the design of notice of the protest of a bill of exchange, is to put the endorser on the alert, and enable him to get an indemnity; and that if he had that indemnity safe, the notice would not be required. If it be conceded, for the sake of argument, that such an indemnity would dispense with notice on a bill of exchange, there is no analogy between the two cases. Here, no notice is required, and, of course, the law does not contemplate an indemnity making any difference. (6) There is no analogy between the case of an endorser on a foreign bill, indemnified by the drawer, and an assignor secured against recourse on him. There, the indemnity may supersede notice, which is essential to a recovery; here, no notice is necessary, and of course indemnity can make no difference. *5 (7.) This is a question of recovery staked on the issue of proof of proper diligence in pursuing the original debtor according to law, without notice or claim on the assignors, until the process is ended, and an indemnity can not dispense with the due prosecution of suit. We are, therefore, of opinion, that there are no circumstances attached to the case, calculated to take it out of the general rule, and that the plaintiffs below, now appellees, failed in showing any right to recover, and that the court below, instead of the instructions given, ought to have instructed the jury as in case of a nonsuit. There are many other questions made in the progress of the trial, both as to the admission of evidence and its effect; but there were none calculated to aid the appellees, or to show that they had a better right to a verdict than the evidence recited, and as the question decided, we suppose, must be decisive of the controversy, we have not thought it necessary to notice them. (7) The assignee's right to recover against the assignor, is staked on the issue of proof of due diligence in pursuing the original debtor according to law, which is not dispensed with by the assignor having been indemnified against a recoil. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the verdict be set aside, and the cause be remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Triplett and Monroe, for plaintiffs; Bibb and Crittenden, for defendants. Ky.App. 1824. Trimble v. Webb 1 T.B.Mon. 100, 17 Ky. 100, 1824 WL 1499 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
