(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 232,  17 Ky. 232 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1543 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Schooling, &c. v. M'Gee. Dec. 17, 1824. *1 Obligor and Assignee, Notice, Evidence, Decrees, Consideration. APPEAL FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT; JOHN P. OLDHAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 416 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k416 k. Insufficiency or Illegality of Cause of Action.  Most Cited Cases A. sold land to B., and agreed that, if a decree had been rendered against him for a deed, he would wait for payment of the note given for the purchase money until a suit with B. was decided, and, if the land should be lost, the note should be void. The land was lost.  Held, that a judgment obtained by C., the assignee of the note, who had not notified B. of the assignment before the agreement was made, should be perpetually enjoined. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. Frame, one of the defendants in the court below, had a deed on record, of a lot in Shelbyville, which lot had been occupied by William Glenn, in his lifetime, for many years, and afterwards by his son, James Glenn, in the whole not less than twenty years. To recover this lot from James Glenn, the appellee, M'Gee, undertook to bring suit and pay the costs thereof, and to receive, as a compensation for his trouble, one-half the lot. After having made some investigation into the title, M'Gee rescinded his investigating contract with Frame and purchased the lot of him at the price of five hundred dollars, and for part of the price, executed a note, now the subject of contest. It seems, that although neither Glenn nor his son had any deed for the lot from Frame, yet there was a decree of the old quarter session court of Shelby county, of record, in favor of William Glenn, against Frame, directing him to convey the lot, bearing date as ancient as the possession of Glenn, or nearly so; and James Glenn instituted a new suit in equity, on this decree, against M'Gee, to compel him to convey the title he had gotten from Frame, in which he succeeded. About the commencement of this suit, M'Gee, meeting with Frame, obtained from him a writing to this effect: "I do certify, that I never made a deed to David Gleen, nor William Glenn, for a lot that was conveyed to me by the trustees of Shelbyville. If there is a deed, or a decree for a deed, for lot No. 32, in Shelbyville, I will wait for all the money that I have Thomas M'Gee's notes for, for one hundred dollars and for three hundred and fifty dollars, until he goes through a legal suit of law for; and if lost, the notes is void. (Signed) Will. Frame. (Seal.) At the time this writing was given, Frame had assigned away the note now in contest, to the appellant, Schooling; but of this assignment it does not appear that M'Gee had any knowledge. After Schooling had prosecuted a suit on this note to judgment, M'Gee filed this bill, with injunction, against Frame and Schooling,?? relying on the foregoing circumstances, and praying a perpetual injunction, which the court granted, and perpetuated it, on final hearing; and from that decree Schooling has appealed. *2 He now insists that the court below erred in admitting the two records in chancery, the one in favor of William Glenn against Frame, and the other in favor of James Glenn against Frame, for the lot in contest, which was objected to, and admitted on the trial; and also, in decreeing a perpetual injunction. (1.) Schooling derived title to the debt in contest, under M'Gee, and was, according to the express letter of the act of assembly authorizing the assignment of notes, bound by every equity which M'Gee had against the notes, up to the date of notice of the assignment. Of course, whatever was good evidence against Frame, at that time, must be good evidence against Schooling in this controversy; and when the writing aforesaid was given, M'Gee had no knowledge of the assignment. (1) The assignee of a note is bound by every equity which the obligor had, up to notice of the assignment. Whatever is good evidence against the obligee at the time the obligor is notified of the assignment, is afterwards good against the assignee. (2.) It will be seen, by an inspection of this writing, that Frame was to wait for the money due on the note, if there was a deed or decree for the lot, and the first record showed that there was such a decree, and the record alone could prove it; and by this evidence Frame had agreed to abide. Of course, this record was admissible. (2) Where the obligor took from the obligee, before notice of assignment, though after it was made, a written agreement, that if there had been a decree against the obligee for the land he had conveyed as consideration of the note, of which the obligor was not apprized at the purchase, he would wait for the payment until a suit with the obligor was decided, and if the land was lost, the note should be void, the decree against the obligee is admissible against the assignee. The decree for the land against the obligor, is also admissible against the assignee, though neither the obligee nor assignee was party. As to the second record of Glenn and M'Gee, it proved precisely the event for which Frame had stipulated to wait, and on which the note held by Schooling was to be void, to-wit, that M'Gee had gone through the suit and lost the lot. It is true, that neither Frame nor Schooling were parties to this suit; but it does not thence follow, that the record was not good evidence. It is certainly a correct rule, that verdicts, judgments and decrees can only be given in evidence against parties and privies. They can, however, be often used to prove facts, such as eviction in cases of actions on warranties; and whenever a party stipulates to abide the event of a certain suit, or to indemnify against its consequences, then the record of that suit may be given in evidence against him, although he was not a party, as was held by this court in the case of  Jones v. Pitt's heirs, &c., 3 Litt. Rep. 427. He, in such case, becomes such a privy, as, in many cases to be absolutely concluded. Here, Frame stipulated that the note should abide the event of a suit for the lot, and the record proved the event, and the fact could not be proved in any other mode; and it was, therefore, competent evidence against Frame, and consequently, against Schooling. *3 (3.) As to the merits, it is insisted that the complainant kept his deed out of sight, which he had received from Frame; that if the deed has a warranty, M'Gee has his recourse at law thereon, against Frame, and is not entitled, of course, to relief against Schooling; that if his deed has no warranty, which Frame alleges to be true in his answer, then he is entitled to no recourse for the loss of the lot. (3) An agreement of the alienor with the alienee after the conveyance, that if there had been a decree against the alienor for the land, he would wait for the payment of the consideration note until a suit with the alienee was decided, and if the land should be lost the note should be void, is on sufficient consideration; and whether the conveyance was with or without warranty, is immaterial, and the land being lost, the judgment obtained by an assignee, who had not notified the obligee before the agreement, may be perpetually enjoined. If we admit that the conveyance was without recourse, it will not affect the right of M'Gee to relief. His equity is not based on his deed or original contract, but on the writing obtained from Frame. It may be said, that this had no valid consideration. We think differently. It does not appear that M'Gee, although he knew that Glenn had possession of the lot when he purchased, and claimed an equity therein, knew of the existence of the decree. This knowledge he denies, and it is inferable from the circumstances, that so soon as he found the decree, he applied to Frame on the subject, to complaint of his unfairness in concealing so important a matter, of which Frame must have had full knowledge, it being a decree against himself. To atone for this deception, Frame gave the writing before recited, as its terms show, And as it was competent for Frame, under our statute regulating assignments, to release these notes, until notice was given of the assignment to Schooling, he could therefore give this instrument, which must, as we have seen, bind both Schooling and himself; and the court below was, therefore, correct in decreeing a perpetual injunction. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Guthrie and Swigert, for appellants. Ky.App. 1824. Schooling v. McGee 1 T.B.Mon. 232, 17 Ky. 232, 1824 WL 1543 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
