(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 177,  10 Ky. 177 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1192 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Thomas Griffith v. Mary Depew et al. Apr. 20, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE HENRY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 127 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k124 Operation and Effect 400k127 k. Improvements and Expenditures. Most Cited  Cases Where a contract for the sale of land is rescinded, the vendor ought to refund the purchase money, with interest, and the vendee to restore the land, with rent and payment for waste, receiving credit for valuable and lasting improvements which he may have made, but not for improvements existing on the estate when he acquired it. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 337 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(A) Recovery of Purchase Money Paid 400k337 k. Lien for Purchase Money and Value of Improvements  and Enforcement Thereof. Most Cited Cases For improvements made by a vendee on land in his possession, and for the purchase money, he has a lien, and should not be compelled, when the contract is set aside, to surrender possession until the lien is paid or security for its payment is given. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 341(5) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(A) Recovery of Purchase Money Paid 400k341 Proceedings 400k341(5) k. Amount and Items of Recovery. Most Cited  Cases Where a contract for the sale of land is rescinded, the vendor ought to refund the purchase money, with interest. Appeal and Error 30 k 877(1) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(C) Parties Entitled to Allege Error 30k877 Appellant or Plaintiff in Error 30k877(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Appeal and Error 30 k 1116 30 Appeal and Error 30XVII Determination and Disposition of Cause 30XVII(A) Decision in General 30k1115 Scope and Extent of Relief 30k1116 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a decree is reversed at the instance of the plaintiff in error, every error, both for and against him, ought to be rectified. Damages 115 k 212 115 Damages 115X Proceedings for Assessment 115k209 Instructions 115k212 k. Mode of Estimating Compensatory Damages in General.  Most Cited Cases When a jury are directed to ascertain the amount of damages, it is the duty of the court first to determine the criterion of damages, and to give that criterion to the jury when shown. Equity 150 k 330(1) 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(I) Defects and Objections, and Waiver Thereof 150k330 Waiver of Objections to Pleadings in  General 150k330(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases If complainant takes the bill as confessed to those points not responded to, it is a waiver of exceptions to the answer. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *2 Griffith filed his bill, alleging that Depew had given his bond to convey a tract of land by certain metes and bounds, in the bill set forth, to Speaks, who assigned it to Graham, who assigned it to him, the complainant; and that about the time the period arrived when the deed was to be made, he lost the bond and can not find it; and he exhibits and swears to a copy, as nearly as his recollection will serve, and he then makes Depew, Speaks and Graham, defendants, and prays a conveyance. Speaks admits that he held the bond, and assigned it to Graham, who, he believes, assigned it to the complainant. Against Graham publication was had, and the bill taken for confessed as a non-resident. Depew, in his answer, admits he sold the land to Speaks by the boundaries, or part of them, contained in the bill; but alleges that he was deceived in the quantity, having calculated by a scale and dividers, supposed it to be but forty acres, when it has since turned out to be eighty, and professes his willingness to convey the forty only. This answer he amended after, upon exceptions it was adjudged insufficient; but the amendment contains no matter necessary to be noticed. Griffith afterwards amended his bill, and charges that Depew has no title at all to convey, and calls upon him for disclosure of title--declares that the defect of title in Depew was a late discovery--charges that he has possession of the land, and that he has made valuable improvements thereon, which he alleges he is likely to loose by an ejectment brought against him and Depew by some other person, and prays a rescission of the contract, a decree for the value of the land, and pay for his improvements. To this bill Depew filed his answer, alleging sundry matters, which are not necessary to be detailed, as none of them are established by proof. He repeats his professions of willingness to convey, but answers not as to the improvements; nor does he attempt to disclose his title, but he admits the existence of an ejectment against the complainant, which he avers is by collusion between the complainant in this suit and the plaintiff in ejectment. To this answer the complainant excepted as insufficient, because it did not disclose title, and was not responsive to the bill; but he afterwards appears to have waived his exceptions by moving the court to take the bill for confessed as to every charge, to which Depew had not responded, which order the court accordingly granted. The existence of the bond and its boundaries were proved with considerable certainty. The court decided that the contract should be set aside, and that "the complainant should recover of the defendant Depew such damages as he had sustained in the premises," and as they were uncertain, directed that an issue of "quantum damnificatus should be made." And, at a subsequent term, a jury was sworn "well and truly to inquire of damages herein"--who returned a verdict of two hundred and six dollars and forty cents. It does not thus far appear in the record of what these damages were composed, whether of the value of the land alone and its interest, or of that and other injuries. The defendant moved to set aside this verdict and grant a new trial, which seems to have been opposed by the complainant, and was overruled by the court, and the court then proceeded to a final decree, in which the court declares that "the jury found the value of the land in the bill mentioned," and approves the verdict, and decrees the amount to be paid to the complainant, upon the complainant's giving bond and security, approved by the clerk of the court, in the penalty of four hundred dollars, conditioned to indemnify and save himself, the defendant Depew, from all losses or damages that might accrue to him on account of the lost bond, and finally decided the complainant to deliver back the possession of the land in Depew, before he should have execution for the amount found by the jury. To reverse this decree, Griffith, the complainant, has prosecuted this writ of error. *3 Many of the errors assigned question the correctness of these proceedings-- such as the irregularity of going to trial till the exceptions to the answer were disposed of; the rescission of the contract instead of its specific execution; the direction of the issue of quantum damnificatus, and then proceeding to the inquiry without such issue--the vague and indefinite terms of the decree for compensation in not fixing the measure of damages, and in not directing the inquiry of the jury to a particular point-- and also in not setting aside the finding of the jury. These complaints come with a bad grace from the complainant. He ceased to insist on his exceptions to the answer, and moved an order to take the bill as confessed, which was granted; of this order of course he can not complain. If the court below erred in rescinding the contract, it was what his amended bill earnestly desired, if no title was disclosed, and declared the specific execution impossible. The direction of the issue, and then not formally making it up--the indefinite terms of the decree-- and vagueness in not drawing the attention of the jury to a point, and in not setting aside the finding of the jury, however erroneous they may be, can not be reversed on the prayer of the complainant--for when his adversary moved to set aside the verdict, he resisted it; and having once shewn his satisfaction with the expressions of the decree and finding of the jury, if he has induced the court below to err by adhering to it, he ought not to be allowed, in this court, to impeach the decision and this court sees no reason for disturbing, in favor of the complainant, the proceedings of the court below till after the finding of the jury. It is a waiver of exceptions to an answer if complainant takes the bill as confessed as to those points not responded to. A party having himself induced the court to err, will not be permitted to revise the decree on that account alone. The remaining errors question the details of the final decree, and require a more serious consideration. The decree for the recovery of the assessment of damages, we approve; but it was subjected to the condition of previously surrendering the possession, and previous bond of indemnity against the lost bond. For improvements made by a vendee under the faith of a contract of purchase, while it is in his possession, and for his purchase money paid for the estate, he has a lien upon the subject improved, and ought not to be compelled previously to part with it, as is done in this instance, without any payment at all. For the court in the final decree declares, and we must take this declaration as true, as it is contradicted by no other part of the record, that the finding of the jury is the value of the land. The bond of indemnity appears reasonable and proper to secure the defendant from future danger; but the execution of this bond before the clerk instead of in court and leaving the clerk to be judge whether the conditions of the decree were complied with, and the execution to emanate upon the contingency of the complainant's doing acts in pais, without any previous decision of the court that these acts were properly done, this court can not approve, The bond of indemnity ought, on reasonable notice given, to have been executed in court, or presented to it previously executed, and execution for the value of the land to have been granted by the act of the court. For this court deems it a general rule, which ought not to be lightly departed from, that whenever the chancellor shall see cause to subject the complainant to any conditions, before he can have execution of his decree, the performance of them ought to appear of record, and the court to approve thereof, before the execution is allowed to issue. Further, as the court admits in their final decree that nothing but the value of the land is ascertained by the jury, and it is evident that the defendant has possession, and claims for his improvements, the court ought to have directed an account of ameliorations, rents, profits, and waste, to be taken before the proceedings were closed or the possession changed. This leads this court to determine, as that court ought to have done, by what criterion this assessment ought to be made. In pre scribing rules for this account, the court has been able to derive but little aid from precedent. Where occupants have been evicted by strangers, in this country, the acts of assembly in some cases, and the rules of equity in others, apply to their case and fix the proper criterion; but as between vendors and vendees a different rule ought to be adopted. In the case of the rescission of a contract, it is well settled, that the court ought to place the parties back in statu quo as near as can be equitably done. That the vendor ought to refund the money with interest, and the vendee ought to restore the subject purchased, with rents, and payment for waste, receiving a credit for the valuable and lasting improvements he may have made. In the case of eviction by a stranger, the occupant generally recovers all his improvements, as well those which he purchased on the estate at the time of his acquiring it, as those which he afterwards made; and after notice binds him, he generally is bound to account for rents on all the improvements. But vendees ought never to be permitted to receive pay for improvements existing on the estate when they acquired it; nor does it seem equitable that they should be charged with rents on those which are the product of their own labor and capital. It is on these points which arise, in detail, in applying the general principles applicable to vendors and vendees, as well as on the time when rents ought to commence, that authorities afford but little aid, while they in general terms maintain the general principles. To give the vendee payment for improvements which were sold him by his vendor, and for which he is remunerated by the restoration of his purchase money, would pay him twice for the same subject. To allow him pay for the lasting and valuable improvements which he himself has made as they were when they were new, and to charge him with rents thereon, might have a large balance in his favor when the improvements were too much deteriorated to amount in value at the date of the assessment to that balance, or the rents might be sufficient or more than sufficient to discharge the whole price of the improvements, when new, and although those improvements were, at the date of the assignment, of considerable value, indeed nearly, or entirely as much as when they were new, yet the vendee would receive nothing for them when delivered over. Their value would be discharged by charging him with rents on his own labor and capital, and the vendor, through whose default the estate might be lost to the vendee, would be enriched to the value of the improvements, considered in the state they were at the time they were delivered over. From these considerations, as well as others which might be adduced, it seems entirely equitable, as a general rule, applicable between vendors and vendees to charge the vendee only with the rents on the estate, as it was when delivered to him. If its profits, as it then was, were considerable, for these and these only ought he to account. If the subject sold was in such situation as to allow of no resulting issues at the time of sale, until the labor and money of the vendee made it so, he ought to be made to account for no rents which accrue from his own exertions, and the expenditure of his own capital. This rule, the court conceives, is applicable to the present case, and ought to have been extended thereto by the court below. The improvements made by the complainant, and they only, ought to be valued at their intrinsic value when the assessment is made, considered in their present deteriorated state. The time when the rents attach, furnishes another question. It may be equitable between vendors and vendees, when the vendee trifles with the contract and fails in the performance thereof, so that through his acts the contract is vacated, to charge him with rents from the time he took possession. But when the default is in the vendor, who can not make title, and through his fraud, negligence or mal feasance the contract must be rescinded of necessity, and the vendee, in confident security of performance of the part of the vendor, has enjoyed the subject, it does not seem to be equitable, by the wrongs of the vendor, to make him bailiff or receiver of such vendor. In the present case the complainant can not have title because his vendor has none, and the filing of the amended bill appears to be the first time that he was apprised of his situation. From this time, therefore, and not before, is he to be charged with the profits resulting from the estate sold, if any could result, as it stood when sold; and he, in like manner, ought to be charged with injury to the estate arising from waste and reduction of soil during the time he held it. Such an account, before the proceedings are closed, ought to be directed between the parties, made by commissioners appointed by order of the court, authorized to make the proper assessments, and the decree ought then to be rendered in whosever favor the balance may appear; and if a balance for improvements or purchase money should appear in favor of the complainant, he ought to be directed to restore the estate so soon as the balance was paid or secured to him by replevin or otherwise; and if no balance should appear in his favor, then he ought forthwith to be compelled to restore the possession, reserving to the court the authority by subsequent orders or decrees to subject the estate to sale in satisfaction of the decree, if the balance so found in favor of the complainant shall not be paid and secured. *4 A vendee, whose contract is dissolved, has a lien on the land for his purchase money and interest, and the value of the improvements; nor should he be compelled to surrender until they are paid or secured to be paid. A chancellor choosing to subject a complainant to terms before he shall avail himself of the decree, should see those terms are complied with on the record, and not depute another to perform that duty. On rescinding a contract as between vendor and vendee, the vendee is entitled to his money with interest and ameliorations, but is liable to rents, &c., but interest should run only from the date of the prayer to dissolve the contract, and rents only from the same period. A vendee is not entitled (on dissolving a contract) to receive pay for improvements on the land when he bought. The decree of the court below, in the foregoing particulars, is therefore erroneous, and must be reversed so far and so far only, as it disagrees with the foregoing opinion, and affirmed as to the residue, with a mandate to the court below to decree accordingly. DECEMBER 15, 1820. On rendering this verdict, Gen. Hardin procured a rehearing, and the cause was argued. On the 15th December Judge Mills delivered the following additional opinion: On a reconsideration of this case, we have been led to consider a question of some importance in the practice of this court; and that is, if the decree is reversed and the cause sent back for new proceedings, ought we not to look back to the first error, and place the whole decree right, although that first error may have been committed in favor of the present plaintiff in error and against the defendant? It is a well settled rule, that if all the errors complained of are not injurious to the plaintiff, but to the defendant, the decree will, and ought, to be affirmed in toto, and the defendant in error may then prosecute his writ. But if the decree is once reversed, it may prevent and bar the defendant in error from prosecuting his writ to reverse it. If this be correct, it is evident, that in case the decree is reversed at the instance of the now plaintiff, every error ought to be rectified, both for and against him. In the present case we, in the former opinion, approved, and we still approve the decision of the court below, in rescinding the contract; but we conceive that the order or decree of that court, directing that a jury be empanelled to enquire of damages, and the proceedings and charge delivered to them is too vague and indefinite. It does not appear that the jury were restrained to any kind of damages, or indeed into what kind of damages they were to inquire,when it was the duty of the court first to determine the criterion of damages, and to have given that criterion in charge to the jury. when sworn. It does not appear what kind of evidence was used on the inquiry, whether the depositions which were filed, or that of witnessess ore tenus, when it would have been proper to have pointed out the nature of the evidence in the decree which directed the inquiry. If the testimony filed in the cause, and that only was used, the verdict appears higher than the value of the land proved, and we are unable, except from the expressions of the court, in the final decree, to know what damages composed the verdict. Although the present plaintiff in error resisted a new trial, yet as the order or decree directing that inquiry is deemed erroneous, we now differ from so much of the former opinion, rendered herein, as affirms these proceedings, and we now reverse the decree commencing with the order which directed a jury to be empannelled and sworn, and all proceedings subsequent thereto. In directing such decree as that court ought to have given, we conceive, as no actual fraud is proved, that the purchase money ought to be the proper criterion. If that can not be ascertained, then the value at the date of the contract, to be ascertained by the proofs in the cause, or by the inquiry of a jury. On this purchase money interest ought to be given, commencing at the same period when rents are directed to commence by this decree. So far as the present decision of this court differs from the former, the latter is reversed and set aside; and in all other respects the former decree of this court must stand unaltered and affirmed. *5 On reversing a decree, every error existing, as well those which make against the plaintiff in error as those that operate in his favor, should be taken into view. On trying an issue of quantum damnificatus, the attention of the jury should be drawn specially to the kind of damages to be enquired into, and the decree should express whether the evidence submitted to the jury was parol or written. Hardin, for appellant; Bibb, for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Griffith v. Depew 3 A.K.Marsh. 177, 10 Ky. 177, 1820 WL 1192 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 141 END OF DOCUMENT
