(Cite as: 4 Litt. 303,  14 Ky. 303 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1290 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bowman and Smiths v. Castleman. Dec. 1, 1823. *1 FROM THE HENRY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 1119 30 Appeal and Error 30XVII Determination and Disposition of Cause 30XVII(A) Decision in General 30k1115 Scope and Extent of Relief 30k1119 k. To Parties Not Appealing or Complaining. Most  Cited Cases Where one of several plaintiffs in a writ of error obtains a severance, and refuses to prosecute, the court of appeals has full power over the cause, and may reverse the decree, even as to him, as fully as if he had remained. TODD, HARDIN and BIBB for plaintiffs; HAGGIN and SHARP for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. John Bowman recovered of Jonah Combs, by an ejectment, a tract of land on which Combs resided and held by an adverse claim, and then sold the land to Combs, being 200 acres, for the price of twelve hundred dollars. Combs, some time afterwards, sold the land, with its improvements and distillery, and also a horse-mill which he was then building, and gave his bond, binding himself to convey the land with warranty, when the second instalment became due, and to completely finish the horse-mill, and deliver possession thereof on the same day, to John Castleman, who paid down four hundred dollars, and gave his note for the second instalment, which was twenty-one hundred dollars, and also two other notes for two other more distant instalments of five hundred dollars each. At that time Bowman had not conveyed to Combs, and Combs held the joint bond of said Bowman and Jesse Smith, binding them to convey the title, and was still indebted the whole twelve hundred dollars, to Bowman; and it was verbally agreed, that Castleman should discharge the twelve hundred dollars to Bowman, in order to secure the title. Some time after this, Combs to make Castleman more secure, assigned to him the title bond of Bowman and Smith. Bowman sued Combs for the twelve hundred dollars, and obtained judgments, and on the emanation of executions, Combs replevied them, and Castleman became his security. When these replevin bonds became due, Castleman, who was bound by his arrangement with Combs, to pay them, applied to Bowman and obtained a stay of nine months, and to secure the payment, executed to Bowman, or rather to trustees for his benefit, a deed of trust on the tract of land itself, for which he then held Bowman and Smith's bond, and also the bond of Combs. Before this, Combs had surrendered the possession to Castleman, but had not completed the horse-mill, as he agreed to do. Combs had also, before it became due, assigned the bond of twenty-one hundred dollars to Thomas and William Smith, who, on Castleman's failing in payment brought suit thereon and recovered judgment. Castleman then filed this bill, enjoining said judgment, and making Combs, Bowman and Jesse Smith, and Thomas and William Smith, defendants. Notwithstanding one of several plaintiffs may obtain a severance, and refuse to prosecute the writ of error, yet the court of appeals may reverse the decree as to him, or entirely, as if no severance had taken place. *2 Of allegations and evidence, and connecting the papers filed with parties and the cause. The equity set up in his original bill is that as Combs had failed to build the horse-mill complete, he had hired hands and built her himself, for which he was entitled to payment, and also damages for lying out of the use of her for six or seven months, and Combs had agreed that the price of building the mill should come out of this second instalment, now held by Thomas and William Smith; also, that he had settled the debt due to Bowman, and was entitled to a credit for that amount out of the same bond, pursuant to his agreement with Combs, and that Combs was insolvent. He also suggests, that one Davis Carneal has a claim to the land, regularly derived from the commonwealth, which he understood was a good one, and covered a "good portion" of the same tract. He prays for these credits to be given him, and the balance to be enjoined until he shall get a good title for the land, and for general relief. In an amended bill, he states, that since filing the original, writs of ejectment had been served upon him and others, by Davis Carneal, and that he believed the claim of Carneal to be good, and that Combs had acknowledged the claim of Carneal to be superior to that of Bowman, and concludes by praying the contract to be rescinded. In another amendment, he suggests that Combs had purchased of Carneal about 75 acres of the interference with the tract in question, by which it had become safe. He prays that if the contract is rescinded, he may have his lien enforced against this 75 acres. In another amended bill, he charges that Combs, at the time of the sale, represented the land to be clear of dispute, which he then believed, but which he now found to be otherwise. Bowman and Jesse Smith answered, denying that Carneal had any valid title, declaring the ejectments brought by Carneal had gone off by nonsuit; aver that they have the eldest grant upon the land, which they exhibit, in the name of John Bowman; profess their willingness to convey according to their bond, when paid; but deny the receipt of any money, and exhibit their deed of trust, to show how their claim was settled. Thomas and William Smith answer, relying upon their assignment; contend that Bowman's claim is superior to Carneal's; insist that the agreement to set-off the price of the mill against the bond in their hands was after the assignment to them, and notice thereof. They admit, that although the whole bond for twenty-one hundred dollars is assigned to them by Combs, it was in payment of a debt of eight hundred and fifty-two dollars only, due to them, and that when they received that sum they were satisfied, and the rest, though in their names, was for the benefit of Combs. They profess ignorance of any equity, and require proof. Combs answered, and after admitting the contract and the agreement at the time that the claim of Bowman should be paid out of the bond for twenty-one hundred dollars, and the assignment to T. and W. Smith for such debt as they claimed, he insists that he was ignorant of any other claim upon the land, than what he sold; contests the validity, and even the existence of Carneal's claim, in his original answer; but in his answer to the amendments, admits he has purchased the interference, to the amount of seventy-five acres. He admits he did not finish the horse-mill, and that he had agreed to give the complainant credit for $200 for building her, at which price they had settled it. He also denies his insolvency. *3 The court below determined that as a ??atent to John May was filed in the cause posterior in date to that of John Bowman, yet as the grant to John Bowman issued to him after his death, the present John Bowman could take no title under it, until 1792, under an act of assembly of this state rendering such grants valid, a period subsequent to that of May's patent, and as Combs was either insolvent or in laboring circumstances, the complainant was entitled to relief, and therefore, set aside the contract, and directed an account to be taken of the rents, profits and improvements made by Castleman, and purchase money paid by him. An account was accordingly taken by commissioners and returned, and both Combs and Castleman endorsed on the report, that they were satisfied with the decree and the report also. The court finally decreed a balance reported in favor of Castleman, to be paid to him, and gave a lien on the 75 acres of land which was supposed to be safe, and directed it to be sold in satisfaction of that balance, and relieved against the whole residue of the contract. To reverse this decree, this writ of error was prosecuted by the defendants below; and the defendant, Combs, now plaintiff in error, has come into court and claimed a severance, and refused to prosecute the writ, which has been granted him. Notwithstanding that severance, this court has full power over the cause, and can reverse the decree, even as to him, as completely as if he had remained; for it is well settled, that a judgment may be reversed, even as to the party severed; and although no decree or judgment is generally binding on one not a party or privy, yet when he has been a party, but refuses to remain so, and is severed, the rule is otherwise. It is difficult to ascertain on what principle the court could enforce a lien against a part of this land, to the prejudice of Bowman and Jesse Smith, who had a superior lien, without regarding it. They were parties to this suit, their lien remained in force, and yet the land is directed to be sold, in a case where they must be bound, in favor of a subsequent lien, so that their right again to touch the same matter and re-sell the land, notwithstanding their contract, was completely barred. It is also hard to find any base for the decree rendered, in any part of the pleadings. As to the patent of May, filed, its existence is not so much as hinted in the bill, nor is there any proof that it covers the ground. The bill sets up a title in Davis Carneal, and there is not the slightest proof that Carneal ever had any title. One witness states that a patent in the name of Moore covers a part of the land, and that it is older than May's. This proof is incompetent, as to Moore's title; for the patent itself was better evidence. The same may be said with regard to the condemnation of Bowman's patent by the decree. It is true, a patent is filed in the name of John Bowman, and there is a John Bowman is court; and a will is filed, of another John Bowman, recorded before the emanation of the patent; but there is not the least proof to which of them the patent issued; and what is more, there is no allegation in the original or amended bills, which makes this a question, and sets the opposite party on their guard, to disprove such a charge. We, therefore, can not perceive how the court below got hold of all the equity on which this contract is set aside, without its being set up in the appropriate mode. It is, therefore, evident that the decree can not be sustained. *4 As to Bowman and Jesse Smith, the bill ought to have been dismissed with costs. The same ought to be the decree as to Thomas and William Smith; and the injunction, as to them, must be dissolved as to eight hundred and fifty-two dollars, with their share of interest and ten per centum damages. As between Castleman and Combs, a different decree ought to be rendered. It is admitted by Thomas and William Smith, that they are entitled to only $852, and that the rest belongs to Combs, and it is agreed between Combs and Castleman, that as much of that bond was to be appropriated to discharge the claim of Bowman, as would be sufficient for that purpose. Castleman has taken measures to secure this amount to Bowman; but has not yet discharged it, or procured a release of Combs, as to Bowman's debt. As Combs is in doubtful circumstances, it does not seem equitable to dissolve the injunction as to the residue of the twenty-one hundred dollars. So much of it, therefore, ought to be enjoined temporarily, as is sufficient to meet the claim of Bowman, for which Castleman is bound, reserving the right of Combs hereafter to show, by proper proceedings, that Bowman has collected of him the amount of his debt, or any part thereof, and then to dissolve the injunction as to the amount so collected by Bowman of Combs. If, after allowing both the claims of Bowman and T. and W. Smith, out of the bond or judgment for twenty-one hundred dollars, any should still remain, it ought to be disposed of as follows: It is clear, that Combs did not finish the horse-mill, and according to the commissioners' report, with which both Combs and Castleman have acknowledged themselves satisfied, Castleman expended, in doing it, four hundred and eighty dollars and sixty-four and one-half cents, for which Castleman is entitled to compensation. As to the rents claimed before the mill was finished, if they were proved, they would probably be too ideal, and as they are not proved, they can not be taken into the estimate. It is true, that Castleman has his action at law for the value of this mill as finished by him; but it is equally true, that as the finishing the mill composed part of the original contract, for which Castleman is indebted, and as Combs is in laboring, if not insolvent circumstances, Castleman has shown good grounds for coming into a court of equity to obtain this discount. Castleman, then, ought, by the decree, to have a credit for the amount last named as reported by the commissioners, to be charged first against the residue of the judgment of twenty-one hundred dollars, if there be any residue after deducting the aforesaid claims of T. and W. Smith and Bowman, and the remainder against the next instalment of five hundred dollars. If there be no such residue of the judgment for twenty-one hundred dollars, then the whole of this latter claim to be charged against the next instalment due for the mill, in such manner as to check the interest on said instalment from the time that Combs was to have had the mill completed, by his contract; and Castleman will be entitled to his costs against Combs in the court below. *5 The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs in this court in favor of Bowman and Jesse Smith, and Thomas and William Smith, and the cause be remanded, with directions to enter such decree in the court below as shall conform to this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Bowman v. Castleman 4 Litt. 303, 14 Ky. 303, 1823 WL 1290 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
