(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 323,  22 Ky. 323 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1688 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Alexander v. Wales. Dec. 15, 1827. *1 Covenant. Conditions Precedent. Pleading. Amendment. APPEAL FROM THE OHIO CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Labor and Employment 231H k 249 231H Labor and Employment 231HIV Compensation and Benefits 231HIV(B) Actions 231Hk247 Pleading 231Hk249 k. Complaint, Petition, or Declaration. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 255k80(4)  Master and Servant) Where a contract was made between an employer and overseer for services for one year at a certain sum, and provided that either party could be off at any time, and that the money should be paid at the end of the year, the overseer, in an action for services, must aver either for the whole or pro rata in his declaration, he cannot aver for one in his declaration and then for the other in his replication. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. This action is covenant, and verdict and judgment for the plaintiff below. The covenant reads thus: "Articles of agreement, made and entered into between John Wales and E. W. Alexander, witnesseth, that the said Wales agrees to serve him as an overseer, and do any work that may be necessary to do on the farm for the present year. For which said Alexander agrees to give him one hundred and seventy-five dollars in Commonwealth's bank paper, or the half in specie, and that either of the parties can be off at any time, and should they separate, it is understood, that the money is not to be paid till the end of the year." Articles of agreement sued on. The only averment made by Wales in his declaration is, "that on his part he has well and truly and faithfully kept and performed, in all things, his said covenant by him to have been done and performed." He assigns the non-payment of the $175 in paper or the half in specie. Declaration. Alexander pleaded that Wales did not serve him the whole year in the capacity of an overseer, as he had declared. To this Wales demurred, and his demurrer was sustained. Plea and demurrer sustained. It is evident that the services of the plaintiff was a precedent condition on his part, and if his averment in his declaration means anything, it was that he had served the whole year, and, therefore, the plea was a good answer to the averment. We have no doubt that the proper construction of the covenant is, that if the services were performed for part of the year only, the plaintiff could recover rateably, or if he performed the whole, he could recover for the whole wages. Where it was stipulated between the overseer and employer, at a certain sum for the year, and that either might ?? off at any time, and the money should be paid at the end of the year--held, the overseer should be paid pro rata--that in such case, the plaintiff must aver performance of the whole year's service in his declaration, if he would recover for the whole or if for part, he must aver part performance; and not for the whole year. To aver part performance, in the replication, is a departure in pleading. *2 But if he went for the whole, he was bound to aver, substantially, an entire performance. If for part only, then he was bound to aver a part performance. On the averment of the whole service performed, he could not recover for part, and on the averment for part performance, he could not recover the whole sum; and his declaration ought to show by his averment, whether he went for part or the whole; and as the best construction we are able to place on his declaration is, that he had performed the whole, the plea was good. Hence the impropriety of another part of his pleadings is manifest in which he abandons by replication, an entire performance, and sets out a partial one. But we can not admit the averment in his declaration to be good. The performance of a precedent condition must be averred substantially, or an excuse for non-performance, in a manner so conformable to the meaning and intent of the covenant, that the other can traverse it, and be fully apprized of what is demanded. The general averment of performance of all things, on the part of the plaintiff, is too uncertain. In one event, that is of his continuance, and no change of mind on part of the defendant, his duties to be performed, were of one character and duration. In the event of either disagreeing to the bargain, then the performance on his part, was to be different, and the declaration is too indefinite. It leaves it uncertain as to what was the things performed on his part, or what event had happened, and reserves the right of insisting on either the whole or a part of the service. Averment of the performance "of all things on the part of plaintiff to be performed," not sufficient to embrace the performance of a condition precedent. The judgment is therefore reversed with costs, and the verdict set aside, and the cause remanded with directions to enter judgment on the demurrer for the defendant below, unless he shall obtain leave to withdraw his demurrer and to amend his declaration, so as to insert a good performance of the precedent condition on his part to be performed, either in whole or part. Leave for plaintiff to amend his declaration. Mayes, for appellant. Ky.App. 1827. Alexander v. Wales 6 T.B.Mon. 323, 22 Ky. 323, 1827 WL 1688 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
