(Cite as: 5 Litt. 180,  15 Ky. 180 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1404 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Caldwell, &c. v. Cook. May 26, 1824. *1 FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 405 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k405 k. Right to Relief in General. Most Cited  Cases A. obtained a loan from a bank, with plaintiff and others as indorsers, under an agreement that plaintiff was to have a part of the proceeds, for which portion plaintiff's note was given which A. assigned, and judgment was entered thereon, as well as on the note given to the bank. Plaintiff sued to prevent the collection of the judgment against him.  Held, that he should not be compelled to pay the judgment on his note until it should appear that he would not have to pay his proportion of the bank debt. Bills and Notes 56 k 320 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(C) Assignment or Sale 56k314 Equities and Defenses Against Assignee 56k320 k. Set-Offs Existing Before Transfer or Notice.  Most Cited Cases The maker of a note cannot set up against an assignee an equity arising out of a transaction unconnected with the note. TRIPLETT for appellants; no attorney for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. John Peebles procured a loan from the Bank of Kentucky, by procuring Wildes Cook, the appellee, with two or three others, to endorse for him, and promised Cook to loan him some of the money. He accordingly lent one hundred dollars, and took Cook's note for it, which was afterwards assigned to Caldwell, one of the appellants. Peebles afterwards became insolvent, and the bank has prosecuted their claim to judgment, and Cook and the other endorsers replevied the debt, and Caldwell has prosecuted to judgment, against Cook, a suit on the note for one hundred dollars, which he held as the assignee of Peebles; and to be relieved against this judgment, Cook filed this bill, with injunction, relying on the foregoing facts, and his danger of being compelled to pay the money to the bank. An obligor can not set up against an assignee, an equity arising out of a transaction unconnected with the note. P. obtained a loan of money from a bank, with C. and others as endorsers, under an agreement that C. was to have part of it, which was paid to him, and his note taken for it, which was assigned off and judgment obtained thereon, as well as on the note given to the bank; injunction to prevent the collection of the judgment against C.; decree that the other endorsers should be made parties to the injunction, and C. not to be compelled to pay the judgment on his note, until it shall appear that he will not have to pay his proportion of the bank debt. The answers do not contest these facts; but allege that Peebles had given an indemnity to two others of his endorsers, out of which most of the money was already made, and that these endorsers alone were counted responsible, it not being supposed that Cook would be compelled to pay any. Of this allegation, however, there is no proof. *2 The court below perpetuated the injunction, and decreed that Cook should pay the one hundred dollars to the bank. From this decree Caldwell and Peebles have appealed. It is evident that the decree can not be sustained. Cook has obtained perpetual relief against the judgment, not because he has suffered, but barely because he is in danger and may suffer. The bank has obtained a decree for the one hundred dollars, and yet is not a party to the suit, and has no way to enforce the decree. If it should hereafter turn out that Cook should have no money to pay to the bank, he will be allowed to keep this money forever. But it does not thence follow, that his bill should be dismissed. He is in danger, by a liability created for Peebles, the payee and assignor of his note. If this liability arose out of a transaction unconnected with his note, we would be constrained to say, on the authority of the case of Bowman, &c. v. Halstead, &c., 2 Marsh. 200, that it did not follow the note into the hands of the assignee. But this is not the fact. It arose out of, and is connected with the note, by his agreement to endorse for Peebles, to secure a loan, and he to have the use, for a time, of part of the money so loaned. Ashe is now in danger, this equity does follow the note into the hands of Peebles' assignee. It is, however, clear, that as the event of this liability is not known, however dangerous it may be, and there is a possibility that it may not fall on Cook, in which event Caldwell would entitled to the money, no perpetual injunction ought to be granted, until Cook has either paid, or been compelled to pay an equal amount of money to the bank for Peebles; and it ought not to be dissolved, until the danger of his liability is over. Such a decree might have been proper, retaining the power of the court over the cause, and permitting either the complainant to show that he was thereafter entitled to a perpetual injunction, or Caldwell to show that the danger was over, and thereby obtain its dissolution. But before any such decree is rendered, we conceive that the co-endorsers of Cook ought to be made parties; that they are interested in this fund. If they are not indemnified, it may enable them to save so much of the original fund, for which they are bound, and to settle the apportionment between themselves. If they are indemnified, as the appellants allege, it will enable Caldwell to compel them to subject that indemnity to the debt of the bank; and if there is enough, he can then get at this debt. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to that court to dismiss the bill with damages and costs, but without prejudice to any future suit for the same cause, unless Cook shall, in a reasonable time, to be fixed by that court, bring his co-endorsers as parties into the cause. Ky.App. 1824. Caldwell v. Cook 5 Litt. 180, 15 Ky. 180, 1824 WL 1404 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
