(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 94,  17 Ky. 94 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1495 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cox v. Nelson. Oct. 12, 1824. *1 Executions, Void and Voidable, Sheriffs, Sales of Land. ERROR TO THE NELSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDG?? West Headnotes Execution 161 k 65 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k64 Counties to Which Execution May Issue 161k65 k. In General. Most Cited Cases A sale of land under an execution irregularly issued to another county is valid, and the quashing of such execution does not affect the sale. Execution 161 k 104 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k104 k. Presumption of Validity. Most Cited Cases Where an execution is sent beyond the county of its issue, the sheriff and all innocent purchasers may presume that it is legally sent. Execution 161 k 163 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k159 Quashing or Vacating Writ 161k163 k. Proceedings and Determination. Most Cited  Cases Though an execution sent to another county be quashed because of irregularity in its issuance, it does not necessarily follow that the title of a purchaser thereunder, who is a stranger to the writ and ignorant of the irregularity, should fall with the writ. Execution 161 k 271 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k270 Bona Fide Purchasers 161k271 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases That an execution to another county is irregularly issued does not invalidate a sale of land thereunder to a stranger to the writ, who is ignorant of the irregularity, since such a writ is voidable only, and not void. Execution 161 k 275(2) 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchase 161k275 Effect of Defects or Irregularities in Execution, Levy,  or Sale 161k275(2) k. Judgment or Execution. Most Cited  Cases Since an execution may go beyond the county, and the sheriff and purchasers have a right to presume that it is regularly sent, and an execution irregularly sent is voidable merely, and not void, a sale of lands to a stranger to the execution under a first execution issued in the county where the judgment was rendered and the execution defendant resided, and directed to another county, may not be vacated on motion to quash the sale for such irregularity in the issue of the execution. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. This is a notice and motion to quash the sale ?? lands by execution, and it was overruled. The ground?? set out in the notice are numerous, as well as those a?? tempted in the proof; but, so far as fraud or addres?? on the part of the purchaser are relied on, the pro?? failed, and we deem it unnecessary to detail any of th?? circumstances or grounds, except one. *2 The plaintiff in the motion, who was defendant in th?? execution, resided, before and ever since the date of th?? judgment, in Nelson county, where the judgment wa?? rendered, and the first execution issued thereon, wa?? directed to the county of Breckinridge, and by virt?? of this execution the sale in question was made; and ?? is contended, on the authority of the case of Mason ?? Rogers, &c., at the last term of this court, that the sa?? ought to have been quashed. We say, the sale; f?? there is no attempt on the part of the mover, to quas?? the execution. There was no proof, whether the d?? fendant in the execution, now plaintiff in the motio?? had or had not removed his effects from the count?? and the purchaser of the land was no party, but ?? stranger to the execution. (1.) Assuming the case of Mason and Rogers as fixi?? the construction of the statute relative to the transm?? sion of an execution beyond the territorial limits of ?? county, this case presents the inquiry, whether exec??tions sent to other counties, are void or voidable on?? If void, there is no doubt this sale can not stand; ?? voidable only, it will follow that the sale is bad, b?? cause the execution is erroneous. (1) An execution irregularly issued to another county, is not void, but voidable only; therefore, a sale of land made under it, is valid. We view the distinction taken in the books betwe?? a legal proceeding irregular, and that which is err?? neous merely, as sound, and one which, for the peace society and the security of rights acquired by legal p??ceedings, ought to be adhered to; for, according ?? that distinction, any rights acquired by third perso?? under a proceeding erroneous merely, are, in gener?? to be protected, notwithstanding the proceedings m?? afterwards be reversed for error. Hence it has be?? often held, that after a judgment was reversed for ?? ??or only, the party obtaining the reversal is not entitled ??o restitution in kind, of what has been taken and sold ??o satisfy the judgment, but only to the money made ??nd paid to his adversary. This principle, we conceive, ought to apply to, and ??govern executions which are only erroneous. The ??urchaser of an estate under them, ought not to have ??is title impeached because of the error. The only ??oints to which he is to look, are, whether there is a ??roper authority to make the sale, and a proper officer ??ngaged in making it. (2. It is also, in the general, true, that wheresoever ??n officer can justify under a writ, he can pass a title ??y a sale under it. If, to him, it is a good authority to ??ct, the purchaser claiming under him will acquire a ??ood title. Whether this may be true, to its whole ex??ent, with regard to the sale of land by fieri facias, we ??eed not now determine. One thing is, however, clear ??n this point. When lands were made liable, they ??ere subjected to judgments; and hence it has been ??eld, that a purchaser claiming lands under execution, ??ust not only produce an execution, but a judgment. ??f, in any case, then, a purchaser could acquire title to ?? chattel, by virtue of an execution, valid on its face, ??ut issued without judgment, or on an invalid one, it ?? not necessary for ust to say now, that he could, by ??ch an execution, acquire a title to lands, when the ??ct requires a judgment, and in this case there is a ??alid judgment. *3 (2) It is a general rule, that where a officer can justify under an execution, he can pass the title to a chattel interest, by a sale under it; but to pass the title to lands, there must be a valid judgment. (3.) It has, moreover, been held, that the purchaser ??as not bound by irregular acts in the officer of plain??ff, in which he did not participate. These principles ??ave been adopted by this court, in the following cases: ??'  Kinney v. Scott, 1 Bibb 155;  Reardon v. Searcy's ??eirs, 2 Bibb 202; Coleman v. Trabue, &c., ibid 518; ??awrence v. Speed, ibid 401; Haydon v. Dunlap, 3 Bibb ?? 6. (3) Cases cited in which sales of lands have been held valid, notwithstanding irregularities in the officer and plaintiff. These cases go far, in principle, to support the sale ?? question. In some of these cases, a distinction, ??hich we still approve, is taken between those cases ??here the statute has pronounced the sale void, and ??ose where the directory part of the statute has not ??en pursued; and in the latter case, the sale, when ??ade to a person innocent of the deviation from the statute, is held good. Such is the present case. The statute has not pronounced it void. (4.) It is clear, that according to the construction given in Mason v. Rogers, an execution may go out of the county, in cases where the defendant in the execution has moved himself or effects from the county. What, then, is the duty of the officer to do, when he receives such execution, coming from another county? He may be bound to know many facts in pais, officially, within his own bailiwick; but in others he is bound to know nothing. The execution may have come from one extreme of the state to another. Is he bound to retrace it to the county from whence it came, and there ascertain where the defendant resided, and whether he had removed himself or his effects? When he got there, the means of ascertaining these facts in pais, might not be in his power; and yet, if he does not proceed, and these facts exist, he would become liable to the plaintiff. (4) There being cases in which an execution may go out of the county where the judgment was rendered, when a sheriff receives an execution from another county, it is not his duty to enquire whether the case existed which authorized it to issue or not; but he is to presume it regular and proceed to execute it. The same inconveniences would be imposed on every purchaser. By this means all sales of property on executions out of the county, would become so hazardous, that no fair price could be obtained, and the allowance granted, to send them out of the county, would be rendered of no use to the creditor, or highly injurious to the debtor. As an execution can go beyond the county, in some cases, we conceive that the correct doctrine is, the sheriff and all purchasers have a right to presume that it is legally sent, and to act accordingly; and that if it shall thereafter be found that it was sent improperly, the title sold under it ought not to be disturbed. *4 (5.) On analogous principles, the sale of a slave by an administrator, who has only a limited and special?? power to sell, has been held good as to the purchaser, notwithstanding the sale was wrongfully made, and the heir or distributees has been left to his remedy against the administrator.  Stamps v. Beatty, Hard. 337. So, in this case, if an execution is wrongfully sent, the defendant who is injured thereby may have his redress against the plaintiff, instead of taking it against either the sheriff or purchaser. (5) A sale of slaves by an administrator, though wrongfully made, is good as to the purchaser--Arg. (6.) If it is necessary, to give such redress, that the execution should be quashed (a point not now before us), it will not follow, that the title of the purchaser should fall with it. (6) The quashing an execution erroneously issued to another county, will not invalidate a sale of land made under it. Upon the whole, we conceive that for this cause only, the title of the purchaser in this case ought not to be shaken, and the judgment of the court below must be affirmed with costs. Haggin and Huston, for plaintiff; B. Hardin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Cox v. Nelson 1 T.B.Mon. 94, 17 Ky. 94, 1824 WL 1495 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 89 END OF DOCUMENT
