(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 372,  21 Ky. 372 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1567 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Duckham v. Smith. Jul. 6, 1827. *1 Conditions Precedent. Excuse of Performance. Tender. Pleading. Practice. Bank Notes. Judgments. Statutes. ERROR TO THE MADISON CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 225 228 Judgment 228VI On Trial of Issues 228VI(A) Rendition, Form, and Requisites in General 228k221 Designation of Amount 228k225 k. Medium of Payment. Most Cited  Cases Act Jan. 5, 1824, provides that in any suit depending on any contract for the payment of notes of the bank of Kentucky or bank of the commonwealth, or for the payment of the current paper of the state, such debt shall not be scaled by the court before whom such suit shall be determined;  but judgment shall be given for the full amount of such debt, to be discharged by paper of the same kind, provided plaintiff makes a written statement on the declaration or warrant that he is willing to take such paper in discharge of the debt.  Held not applicable to actions on covenants made before the act was passed, in which cases judgment is recoverable for money. Sales 343 k 83 343 Sales 343II Construction of Contract 343k83 k. Mode of Delivery. Most Cited Cases A covenant to deliver goods at a warehouse does not require the covenantor to put them in the warehouse. Constitutional Law 92 k 2667 92 Constitutional Law 92XXII Obligation of Contract 92XXII(A) In General 92k2667 k. Retroactivity in General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 361k265) The laws affecting contracts do not apply to those made before the enactment, at whatever time the action may be commenced. Contracts 95 k 279(2) 95 Contracts 95V Performance or Breach 95k279 Tender of Performance 95k279(2) k. Sufficiency of Tender. Most Cited  Cases Under an obligation to deliver goods at a warehouse on a certain day, if the obligor relies on a tender in the absence of the obligee he must show a tender on the latest convenient hour of the day. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. Smith declared in covenant on a writing, stipulating that he should deliver unto Duckham, two thousand pounds of good merchantable manufactured tobacco, at Boonsborough warehouse, by the tenth of July then next ensuing; for which Duckham promised to pay to Smith, seven dollars per hundred in Commonwealth's paper, and he set out the performance of the precedent condition on his part, by averring that he did by the day stipulated, deliver at Boonesborough warehouse, two thousand weight of good merchantable manufactured tobacco, and that the defendant was not there to receive it, and that said warehouse was locked up, so that he could not deposit the tobacco therein; and he assigns for breach, that Duckham did not pay the stipulated price, or any part thereof. *2 Declaration. Duckham pleaded, that the plaintiff did not deliver two thousand pounds of good merchantable manufactured tobacco at Boonsborough warehouse, by the tenth of July next succeeding the date of the writing declared on. Plea denying the performance of the condition precedent. On the trial the plaintiff proved, that on the tenth of July, named in the covenant, he did cause the tobacco, of the quality and quantity named in the writing, to be taken to the warehouse, or rather on the public road which passed the warehouse and as near thereto as was practicable, and that the warehouse was locked, and on search the defendant, who seems to have been the keeper, could not be found there or at any house near it, and after waiting about an hour, he caused the tobacco to be taken to a private house, about a quarter of a mile from the warehouse, and somewhat nearer to the landing, and there to be left, where he remained with it during the day. Evidence offered to prove the performance of the condition. The counsel for defendant, moved the court to instruct the jury, as in case of a non-suit, which was overruled by the court, and a verdict and judgment having been found for the plaintiff, the defendant below has prosecuted this writ of error. Motion for nonsuit overruled and verdict and judgment for plaintiff. We conceive that the motion to instruct, as in case of a non-suit, ought to have prevailed. The plaintiff might sustain his action either by avering the performance of a precedent condition on his part, or a tender of performance, and a failure or refusal to receive it. But whichsoever he may allege in his declaration, by that, he must be bound in his proof, and he can not be permitted to aver performance, and then in his proof be allowed to excuse his non-performance, by shewing a tender or offer to perform, which was the case here, and the proof of the latter will not be held equivalent to the former. Where plaintiff avers performance of the condition precedent, he must prove that; to shew a tender, or an excuse for non-performance, will not avail. But if it should be allowed that the plaintiff might aver performance and prove a tender and failure to receive, as the court below seems to have supposed, the proof of the plaintiff did not come up to such tender. Under the words of this agreement, we have no doubt, the plaintiff might have performed the precedent condition even before the day, in the presence of the opposite party. But when he relies on a tender in the absence of the other party, and a consequent failure to receive, the tender ought to be set out as having taken place at the utmost convenient hour of the last day on which the performance could take place. Now the proof here, is, that the wagon arrived at the warehouse at nine o'clock in the morning, and staid about one hour only, before it was driven off at the order of the plaintiff. What may be the utmost convenient hour of the day, in which to do the business may often be a question, and in some particular cases may depend upon the nature of the business to be done at the time; but that question can not arise here, for it can not be pretended that the hour here proved, to do this duty in, was the last convenient hour, and as he did not wait till that hour to make the tender, we are aware of no principle on which he can charge the defendant. *3 When the obligor covenants to deliver tobacco at a warehouse, to the obligee, on a given day, relies on a tender in the absence of the obligee, he must shew the tender on the latest convenient hour of the day. We have treated the declaration of the plaintiff entirely as containing an averment of performance, because we do not view it as attempting to shew an excuse of performance or tender of performance. It does state, that the warehouse was locked, and that the defendant was not there, so that he could not deposit the tobacco therein. But before this, he states that he delivered the tobacco, and what follows, is only an excuse for not placing the tobacco in the warehouse, which he was not bound to do; but to deliver it at the warehouse, and whether it could, or did come within it, was a matter which belonged to the defendant. Covenant to deliver tobacco at a warehouse does not require the covenantor to put it in the house. Another question made is worthy of notice. The jury found the price of tobacco expressly in Commonwealth's paper, and at the moment the verdict was returned, the counsel for plaintiff moved for, and obtained leave to endorse a willingness to accept Commonwealth's paper, and the court thereupon, rendered judgment in the usual form, for the nominal amount found by the jury, as if it was specie, and added a note at the foot of the judgment, that the plaintiff agreed to accept the paper in discharge of the whole of it. Is it not too late after the jury have come into court with their verdict for plaintiff to endorse his agreement to receive bank paper? Waiving the question, whether after the trial was over, the plaintiff could have been permitted to make such endorsement, when the act of assembly says, that it may be done at the trial as the last hour, and also whether this note at the foot of the judgment, stating that the plaintiff agreed to take bank notes, when the act requires the substance of the judgment itself, to be for the amount to be discharged in paper of the Bank of the Commonwealth, the endorsement was entirely inadmissible in this case. Query, will a note at the foot of a judgment that plaintiff agrees to receive bank paper, make the judgment in substance for the paper, and within the act. It has already been decided at the present term, in the case of Feemster v. Ringo, that the act of assembly which allows such endorsements and directs judgments to be entered, payable in bank paper, does not include notes or contracts made before its passage; and as this contract was made and became due before the passage of that act, the case was not affected by it, and all the judgment to which the plaintiff might be entitled, could not exceed the value of the bank paper, when due, in specie, with the interest thereon. Act authorizing the recovery of notes on the bank of the commonwealth in kind, does not apply to contracts made before the enactment. The judgment is reversed with costs, and the verdict set aside, and the cause is remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Breck, and J. Speed Smith, for plaintiffs; Turner, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Duckham v. Smith 5 T.B.Mon. 372, 21 Ky. 372, 1827 WL 1567 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
