(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 462,  21 Ky. 462 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1587 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Owings v. Brown. Oct. 5, 1827. *1 Vendor and Vendee. Liens. Rescission of Contracts. APPEAL FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 75 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400II Construction and Operation of Contract 400k74 Time of Performance and Payment 400k75 k. In General. Most Cited Cases A. bought land of B., giving his note in payment, and received from B. an order on C. (who held the legal title) for a deed, which C. refused to execute.  A. enjoined the judgment obtained on the note, and prayed for a rescission. It appeared that C. had conveyed to D. in trust for B., and that D. was ready to convey to A. on payment of the purchase money. Held, that the deed could not be withheld for payment of the purchase money, there being no such condition in the order. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 123 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k123 k. Actions for Rescission. Most Cited  Cases A. bought land of B., giving his note in payment, and received from B. an order on C., who held the legal title, for a deed, which C. refused to execute.  A. enjoined the judgment obtained on the note, and prayed for a rescission. It appeared that C. had conveyed to D. in trust for B., and that D. was ready to convey to A. on payment of the purchase money. Held, that the deed could not be withheld for payment of the purchase money, there being no such condition in the order and that A. could not be required to pursue the title to D., who was no party to the suit. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. To enjoin a judgment at law obtained by Brown against Owings, he, Owings, filed this bill, alleging that the judgment was obtained on a note executed by him to Brown, in consideration of one-fourth of a tract of land, the title to which was in Wade Mosby, and to which Brown represented that he was entitled from Mosby. That Brown, at the time of the sale, executed to him an instrument of writing, acknowledging the sale, and in the form of an order, directing Mosby to make the title to Owings. That he had presented this order to Mosby, and he had refused to convey, alleging that Brown had not complied with his contract with him, Mosby. That now he had heard that Mosby had divested himself of the title, and could not convey it, and that Brown and Mosby both resided out of the Commonwealth, and Brown had taken no measures to get the title, which he contends he ought to have, or the contract ought to be rescinded. That he had now so lost the order, that he could not find or produce it. Allegations of Owings' bill. Mosby answered the bill, denying that the written order had ever been presented to him, and denying that he had refused to convey the part of James Brown, as his way was clear to convey that part, and if he had refused, it must have been some other part of the tract, and not Brown's share, to which Brown was entitled. He admits he has parted with the title, but alleges that he has conveyed it to Henry Clay, in trust for Brown, or the complainant, or which ever may be entitled to it. *2 Mosby's answer. Brown answers, and exhibits a copy of the writing, acknowledging the sale, and requesting Mosby to convey, and alleges that Mosby has conveyed the title as he believes, to Henry Clay, who holds it in trust, ready to be conveyed to Owings as soon as he shall have paid the purchase money. Brown's answer. In this shape the cause was tried, and the court below dissolved the injunction, and dismissed the bill with damages and costs. Decree of the circuit court. It is clear from the writing, that Owings was entitled to the title on the sale, so soon as Mosby could make it when applied to, and that he was not bound to wait till he paid the purchase money, and that Brown or Mosby had no right to retain the title, and even as the title was to come from Mosby, he did not retain even that lien which the law allows vendors against purchasers for the purchase money. He ought, therefore, to have shewn, that Mosby was still ready to make the title. This he has failed to do. Where the vendor gives an order to the vendee, or the holder of the legal title, for a conveyance, saying nothing of the consideration, the deed shall not be withheld for payment of the purchase money. Mosby has parted with that title, and neither he, nor Brown can convey it. It is true, they allege that Clay is but a trustee, and is ready to convey it. This, they ought to have made out in proof, or to have offered the title. Clay is no party to the suit, and Brown did not think proper to bring either him or his title before the court. Was Owings bound to do so? We conceive not. We can not suppose that he was bound to look to, or deal with a trustee or depository of the title created by either Brown or Mosby, without his concurrence or consent. As they had placed the title there without consulting him, they were bound to show that it could and would be conveyed; and as they have chosen to try the cause without doing so, they must take the consequences. In a bill like this, seeking title from a vendor, and suggesting that he had probably parted with it, it might be of dangerous consequences to the rights of the vendee, to turn him round to a new suit, or pursuit of title, on the bare allegation of the defendant, admitting he had parted with the title, and alleging that the person to whom he had conveyed was ready to convey, and telling the complainant, to go and apply to him and get the title if he can. In such case it will not avail that vendor had caused the title to be conveyed to a trustee, to be conveyed vendor to; purchaser can not be required to thus pursue the title. The contract must, therefore, be rescinded and set aside. Owings must be decreed to relinquish all claim thereto, and a perpetual injunction must be granted against the collection of the purchase money; or if the money is collected, (as the injunction was dissolved before the final hearing), Brown must be decreed to refund what is collected, with interest and costs. *3 Decree of rescission. The decree is to be reversed with costs, and such decree to be entered in a court below as shall conform to this opinion. Mayes and Triplett, for plaintiff; Wickliffe, for defendant. Ky.App. 1827. Owings v. Brown 5 T.B.Mon. 462, 21 Ky. 462, 1827 WL 1587 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
