(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 406,  19 Ky. 406 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1329 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lewis v. Robards & Williamson's Adm'x. Oct. 20, 1826. *1 Pleading. Exceptions to Answers. Error. Mortgages. Parol Evidence. Lotteries. Consideration. Exhibits. Allegation and Proof. Rescission of Contracts. Hire. Interest. Lien. ERROR TO THE JESSAMINE CIRCUIT; WILLIAM L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Gaming and Lotteries 188 k 276(7) 188 Gaming and Lotteries 188II Rights and Remedies of Parties 188k272 Parties to Bet or Game 188k276 Right to Recover Winnings Under Contract 188k276(3) Particular  Contexts 188k276(7) k. Lottery claims and tickets;   determination of outcome. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 247k14  Lotteries) Securities for tickets in an illegal lottery cannot be coerced. Mortgages 266 k 37(2) 266 Mortgages 266I Requisites and Validity 266I(A) Nature and Essentials of Conveyances as Security 266k35 Evidence as to Character of Transaction or  Instrument 266k37 Admissibility 266k37(2) k. Parol evidence. Most Cited  Cases Parol evidence is admissible to show that an absolute deed was intended as a mortgage, and that the defeasance has been omitted by fraud or mistake. Mortgages 266 k 37(2) 266 Mortgages 266I Requisites and Validity 266I(A) Nature and Essentials of Conveyances as Security 266k35 Evidence as to Character of Transaction or  Instrument 266k37 Admissibility 266k37(2) k. Parol evidence. Most Cited  Cases Where defendant partially admits a fact in his answer, parol evidence is admissible to prove an absolute deed a mortgage, where otherwise it would not. Appeal and Error 30 k 1142 30 Appeal and Error 30XVII Determination and Disposition of Cause 30XVII(B) Affirmance 30k1141 Rendering Final Judgment 30k1142 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases If enough appears in the record to enable the court to reach a conclusion upon a question of fact, it will not reverse for an error in the circuit court in overruling exceptions to the answer, though it is evasive. Equity 150 k 25 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(A) Nature, Grounds, Subjects, and Extent of Jurisdiction in General 150k25 k. Illegal contracts, combinations, and transactions.  Most Cited Cases Blending a good with a vicious consideration will not bar relief in equity. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The complainant below, now plaintiff in error, filed his bill charging that David Williamson set on foot a private lottery for his individual benefit, setting up as prizes, a considerable quantity of real and personal estate, after he had parted with the title for the benefit of his creditors; that the price of his tickets was $100 each, payable in four quarterly installments of twenty-five dollars each; that he, the complainant, not knowing that the lottery was illegal and void, was induced to buy six tickets and one half, for which he executed twenty-six promissory notes, amounting to six hundred and fifty dollars; and further, executed to Williamson, a mortgage on a very valuable slave, to secure the demand. *2 Bill by Lewis, alleging he had mortgaged a slave to purchase tickets in Williamson's lottery. That the slave remained in his own possession, till Williamson took the slave out of his possession with out his consent and proceeded to hire him out and take the profits for some time, until he transferred the notes and assigned the mortgage of the slave to a certain William Robards. Williamson assigns the mortgage and notes given for the tickets, to Robards. That Robards threatened to sue him on all the notes, and harass him; and that he still ignorant of his rights, and supposing that the notes were all recoverable, to ward off these suits and save costs, agreed to make to Robards an absolute bill of sale for the slave, with a verbal agreement that he should have two years to redeem him, and consequently executed such a writing, and the notes executed to Williamson, were given up to be cancelled. Lewis makes Robards an absolute bill of sale, and took up his notes, reserving by parol, a right to redeem in two years. That afterwards Fulkerson and Bower obtained a judgment against the complainant for about $150, which was likely to distress him, and that Robards agreed to pay the judgment, if he, the complainant, would surrender his right of redemption to the slave, and execute another absolute bill of sale, which he did, still ignorant of his rights and believing he was legally bound to discharge said notes. Robard pays Lewis $150 for his equity of redemption in the slave. He charges the lottery of Williamson to be a fraud upon the purchasers of tickets, if it had been legal; because he had no title to the prizes, and he relies on its illegality, whether fair or unfair, and prays that the hire of the slave may be accounted for by Williamson's administratrix, while he held him, and by Robards since he got him; that the bill of sale may be cancelled, and the slave restored to him on Robards' receiving the $150, or thereabouts, paid in discharge of the judgment of Fulkerson and Bower, and for general relief. Allegations of no title to the prizes and illegality of the lottery, and prayer for return of the slave, &c. Robards answered the bill, giving a kind of new statement or coloring to the transaction, the whole, or nearly the whole of which, may be reconciled with the bill, and is not inconsistent with it, and then concludes with denying all the bill not admitted by the answer. He admits the mortgage to Williamson, which is not produced. He says not a word about the notes which were destroyed when he took his first bill of sale, or whether the mortgage and notes were assigned to him. He admits the first bill of sale, and the verbal right of redemption for one year after its date, instead of two--says he is not disposed to controvert, that the funds or price of the slave went to Williamson, and admits the payment of the judgment to Fulkerson and Bower, and the second bill of sale. He seems to insist, that the complainant himself delivered him the slave, and intimates that it was a purchase of him directly. He, however, does not charge, that he paid anything to Williamson for the notes or the mortgage, or that he released any debt due by Williamson to him. *3 Answer of Robards. In short, his answer is as fine a specimen of evasion, and a shrinking from an approach to the full truth, as can easily be made, and it is impossible to read it, in connection with the bill, without leaving an impression on the mind, that the substance of the bill is true, and that he knew it to be so, but intended to avoid either an express admission or denial. Remarks on the evasive character of the answer. This answer was excepted to, as insufficient; but upon argument, the court below sustained the answer and overruled the exception. Exception to Robards' answer overruled. Williamson's administratrix failed to answer, and the bill as to her was taken as confessed. Bill pro confesso as to Williamson's adm'x. On final hearing, the court below dismissed the bill as to Robards, with costs, and as to Williamson's administratrix, decreed the re-payment of six hundred and fifty dollars, with interest. From this decree, Lewis has appealed. Decree of the circuit court. It is assigned for error, that the court below erred in overruling the exceptions to the answer of the defendant Robards. We have no doubt these exceptions ought to have been sustained, and another answer directed. Evasive answers ought never to be encouraged by courts of original jurisdiction, as they are an expedient to escape justice. The mode in which a bill ought to be answered, is not only plainly laid down in our practical treatises on chancery practice, but are dictated by the rules of candor and common sense. The charges and allegations ought to be answered explicitly, admitting so much of each as is true, and then controverting the residue and if it is necessary for a clear understanding of the case, a new statement may be made of the defence. Testing this answer by this simple rule, it can not be sustained. Evasive answers. Rules for answering the allegations of a bill laid down. But if enough appears in the record to enable this court to reach the truth of the case, and that shall appear against the person who has endeavored to shelter himself under an evasive answer, it would be useless to reverse for that cause only, and send the suit back for new proceedings and to come by a new application to the conscience of the defendant, at the same facts which this court has a right to infer from the evasions and silence of the defendant, and to gather from the proofs in the cause. If enough appears in the record for complainant, this court will not reverse for an error in the circuit court in overruling exceptions to the answer, though it is evasive. We shall, therefore, proceed to consider the case as it stands, and in doing so, we are satisfied that the complainant did contract a debt to Williamson, of $650, purely for lottery tickets, and did mortgage his slave to secure that demand, and that Williamson afterwards got the slave into his possession by virtue of that claim, and that by the transfer of the same claim to Robards, he obtained his first absolute bill of sale, and for no other consideration, with a verbal right of redemption for one year. *4 Facts of the transaction. It has been insisted, that this right of redemption can not be proved, under the decisions of this court, where the deed is absolute. To this it may be replied, that no decision has ever excluded the right to prove an absolute deed to be a mortgage, when the opposite party in pleading, has partially admitted the fact, and it is only in cases where the parol agreement to redeem is contested, and the writing is relied on as conclusive, that the parol proof is excluded. Where the defendant partially admits the fact in his answer, parol evidence is admissible to prove an absolute deed a mortgage, where otherwise it would not. Thus far, then, neither Williamson nor Robards claiming under him, acquired any valid title to the slave. For the lottery was illegal, and neither the notes nor the mortgage could have been coerced by suit; and indeed, money paid for tickets could have been recovered back, according to previous decisions. See Gray v. Robards, 2 Marsh, 208. Securities given for tickets in an illegal lottery, are void, and money paid for such tickets, may be recovered back. If Robards had been induced by the complainant, to purchase up this demand from Williamson, or to release any demand he held on the latter, for the purpose of getting up this demand, it might have formed a good ground for refusing relief to the complainant against Robards. But Robards, in his answer, sets up no such defence. He rather seems to insinuate, without expressly charging the fact, that he dealt with the complainant without referring to the demand of Williamson for lottery tickets. As to the effect of a valuable consideration for the assignment under the circumstances here. It is true, a paper is filed, purporting to be a promisory note from Williamson to Robards, for a greater sum, with a credit endorsed for $650, which seems to correspond with the amount of the tickets. But there is no explanation how this paper came there, or who produced it, and there is no reference to it in the pleadings: certain it is, that the defendant Robards, in his answer, does not rely upon it, or attempt to use it as a defence. A paper found in the record not referred to in the pleading, and not shewing by whom filed, will not avail to prove a fact not averred. There is, then, a total want of proof, that any other consideration moving from Richards, constituted any part of the consideration for the first bill of sale made by the complainant, except the price of the lottery tickets procured from Williamson. It was then, on the payment of the judgment to Fulkerson and Bower, and obtaining the second bill of sale, that any valid consideration was received by the complainant, and the event of this cause must rest upon the enquiry whether, blending this part of a good consideration with what was vicious is a bar to relief against Robards. We conceive it very evident, that the extinguishment of the claim for the lottery tickets, was the strongest inducement to this last arrangement, and that no reasonable man, possessed of a full knowledge of his rights, would have made it, in a case where he was previously under no obligation to do so, and we do not apprehend that this blending of a partially good consideration with an illegal one ought to destroy the power of the chancellor over the contract. *5 Part valid consideration, blended with a vicious one, will not destroy the power of the chancellor over the transaction. And that the proper redress is a rescission of the contract and a restoration of the slave in kind, if to be had, or his value if he can not be obtained, and that an account ought to be taken, charging Williamson's administratrix with the hire of the slave while Williamson held him, and Robards' estate with the hire since his possession, and charging the complainant with the money paid to Fulkerson and Bower, with interest thereon till it is extinguished, and that a decree ought to be rendered for the balance against whomsoever it may fall, allowing Robards' representatives, as he is now dead, a lien upon the slave and a right to subject him to sale for any balance in their favor, if there be any. Mandate for a decree for the surrender of the slaves on payment of the balance of an account of his hire, and the $150, with interest. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for such proceedings to be had, as shall conform to this opinion. Dana for plaintiff; Haggin and Mayes for defendants. Ky.App. 1826. Lewis v. Robards' Adm'x 3 T.B.Mon. 406, 19 Ky. 406, 1826 WL 1329 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
