(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 587,  10 Ky. 587 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1181 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Horine's Heirs v. Craig et al. May 31, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE GENERAL COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A pre-emption, calling to include the settlement, and to "survey as near an equal quantity on each side as prior claims will admit," and not describing those claims, or how they are to be found, is invalid. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry dependent on a pre-emption is not invalidated by describing the pre-emption by the name of the original holder, it being generally known by his name, although located with the surveyor in the name of the assignee. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a bill in chancery brought to sustain the following entry against elder grants, to-wit: "January 13, 1783. James Gordon, assignee of Benjamin Craig, enters 500 acres of land on a treasury warrant, No. 3,021: Beginning at the N E corner of Joseph Blackford's pre-emption on Glenn's creek; running on his line southwardly 200 poles, thence out at right angles eastwardly for quantity." There is no pre-emption entry filed or pretended to exist in the name of Joseph Blackford. But an entry in the name of John Craig and Robert Johnson, assignees of John May, assignee of Joseph Blackford, of a pre-emption warrant, No. 1,135, for 1,000 acres, is shown as the one intended. Its calls are "Joining and incduding the settlement as near the centre of the tract of land as prior claims will admit." The settlement, entry to which it is contended, on behalf of the appellants, who were complainants below, the foregoing pre-emption entry is attached, contains the following calls: "January 24, 1780: Joseph Blackford, heir at law to Samuel Blackford, enters 400 acres upon a certificate for settlement lying on the North fork of Glenn's creek, including an improvement of Joseph Blackford's, and David Glenn's field, where he raised corn." The certificate for settlement contains the same calls precisely, except that in lieu of the expression "David Glenn's field where he raised corn," it has the expression, David Glenn's corn field.?? The notoriety of Glenn's creek and its north fork--and of Joseph Blackford's improvement, and David Glenn's corn field on the north fork, (both of which, to-wit, the improvement and corn field, are at the same spot) have not been question in argument, and it is supported by indubitable evidence: Nor has there been any question made on the mode of surveying this settlement, to-wit, the long established form of laying it in a square, with lines to the cardinal points, including the centre of the corn field at the intersection of the diagonals of that square. But in adjoining the aforesaid pre-emption to this settlement, the first question is made, because it appears that Joseph Blackford, in addition to this settlement as heir of Samuel, had another settlement in his own right, of 400 acres, the certificate of which is dated the 26th April, 1780, and an entry thereof made the 24th of June in the same year, the calls of both of which are--"Lying on the north side of Kentucky, about 2 or 3 miles from Benson's crossing, to include a sinking spring and his improvement." Take the calls of this settlement entry alone from its face and suppose the enquirer to be ignorant of the true situation of the objects of the ground and he could not have learned from the location itself that it lay upon Glenn's creek. On examining both the settlement entries of Blackford, as well as the pre-emptions, he would have found that on the same day with the pre-emption entry above cited, altho' it omits to name Joseph as the heir of Samuel Blackford, and has no allusion to Glenn's creek, Craig and Johnson, assignee of May, who was assignee of Joseph Blackford, had likewise entered the other pre-emption warrant with the following calls, to-wit: "On the waters of Clear creek, about two miles from a large pond joining Blackford's settlement, extending up and down waters for quantity, including the land nearly equal on each side." He would further discover that this entry was made on pre-emption warrant No.106, isued to Blackford in his own right, and that the other left for the remaining entry issued to Joseph Blackford as heir of Samuel, as appears by the warrant filed in the cause. And as each pre-emption must, by law, adjoin its proper settlement, no doubt could remain as to which settlement the warrant No. 1135 was attached by the locator. This objection cannot, therefore, prevail against this entry. Nor is it more strong in producing uncertainty on account of the settlement in Joseph Blackford's own right, being near Glenn's creek, and when it is surveyed, including the main creek near the mouth; for it is evident that the sinking spring must be about as near the waters of some other stream as it is to Glenn's creek, as it is proved that when it overflows in high water, it barely then leads to a small drain, which runs into Glenn's creek. The same comparison of the two pre-emption entries and warrants, would still determine the enquiry. *2 The uncertainty as to which pre-emption entry the complainants claim must attach itself, must also be obviated clearly by the entry in Joseph Blackford's own right being fixed on Clear creek, and the one made as heir being attached to a settlement calling for Glenn's creek on its face, a call wholly omitted by the other settlement and even repelled by its pre-emption entry. Nor can we deem the objection made to the appellant's entry, because it calls for an entry in the name of Joseph Blackford, and the entry itself is in the names of Craig and Johnson, assignee a valid one. It is highly probable that such claims after their assignment, retained the name of the original proprietor, and in this case it is proved that it did do so-- and that ever after the entry on pre-emption warrant was made it was notoriously known by Blackford's name. Craig and Johnson, it is true, were the record names assigned to this entry, which record showed that they had derived it from Blackford, whose name afforded the popular and well known title. It is used as an object in another location, and when so used, it was not necessary that the locator should describe it by every name. If he used that which was well understood in the country at the time, it was sufficient. Notoriety of the object is the question, and if common fame assigned a name improper in nature or by record it was right to follow the common mistake, and thereby describe his claim so that it might be found. Many examples might be adduced where this court has sustained entries calling for names of objects as they existed by reputation, though that reputation was, strictly speaking, incorrect; and in the case of Carson &c., vs. Hanway, 3 Bibb, 160, this court supported a call for Reed's pre-emption in Gilpin's entry, where Reed's claim was situated precisely as that of Blackford in the present case. This is a decision strictly in point and may be considered as decisive of this question. An entry appendant on a pre-emption is not vitiated by describing the pre-emption by the name of the original certificate holder, though located with the surveyor in the name of the assignee, the pre-emption being generally known by the name of the original certificate holder. The next formidable objection which has been made to this entry, and that which has been more seriously discussed at the bar is that arising from the call of the pre-emption entry of Craig and Johnson, assignees of May, who was assignee of Blackford, which directs that the settlement shall be adjoined and included, "as near the centre of the tract of land as prior claims will admit." Against the entry it has been contended, that according to a series of modern decisions, the claim cannot be supported, such as  Hanson vs. Lashbrook, 3 Bibb, 543;  May, Banister, &c., vs. Mason, 4 Bibb, 128; Clay vs. Reed, ib. 162; Frame vs. Taylor, 2 Bibb, 363. A pre-emption calling to include the settlement, and to "survey as near an equal quantity on each side as prior claims will admit," without describing what those prior claims are, or how to be found, is not valid. *3 On the other side it has been urged that this case falls within the principle of the cases which have reduced the indefinite expressions "near" about and such like, to certainty, and have sustained entries by a benign interpretation and rejection of uncertainty; and also that it comes more properly within the principle of the cases of  Drake vs. Ramsey and Logan, Hard. 34; Craig and Mosby vs. Cogar, ib. 383; Wilson vs. Fleming and Johnson, ib. 579; Johnson, &c., vs. Johnson's heirs, 1 Bibb, 60;  Overton vs. Reed and Roberts, 4 Bibb, 154--and not of those relied on by the appellees; and it has been further strenuously, though respectfully contended, that the aforenamed cases quoted by the appellees, are a departure from the principles recognized by this court, through a series of years, and never doubted; and, further, that these cases cannot be supported on principle. It is admitted that the decisions of this court have been benign and indulgent to entries, and conformed to the unenlightened condition of the country when the locations were made, and the hardy, tho' frequently illiterate, race of hunters by which they were framed. To such extent has this benignity of interpretation been extended that the future generation, which attempts to trace the errors of the present, will probably see, that the mistakes have been all on this side; and then the full tide of experience may prove that a more rigid construction would have been better policy and would have sooner placed the country in a state of repose. But however strongly we may admit our fallibility, and however great our leniency may have been, we cannot admit that unintentional errors ought to lead us to sustain entries which lack the essential requisites of law, altho' some may have escaped unhurt, the merits of which did not entitle them to the sanction of this court. The principles which govern the case of Hanson vs. Lashbrooke and the other correspondent cases relied on by the appellees, are the following:--First: the law required that locations should be made special and precise, so much so, that others could find and appropriate with certainty the adjacent residuum. An entry then, whose position depended on unknown existences and subsequent discoveries, or was subject to be altered by future events, cannot possess these indispensable requisites of law. Secondly, as the duty lay on the shoulders of the first locator to fix the spot with certainty and leave the adjoining territory equally certain, he ought not to be permitted to suggest the danger of prior claims himself, and shift from himself the burden of search to find them, and impose upon the subsequent locator the finding of them as well as his own position, subject to the still greater uncertainty imposed upon the subsequent locator, when he had found what he deemed prior claims, of not knowing whether the first locator would deem them so, or not. An entry then which professes to avoid prior claims, unknown and undefined, is from its course a conditional appropriation. It is to be fixed here, if nobody opposes--there if disturbed in the first attempt--or yonder, if still driven from the positions first attempted. Such a choice--such an appropriation is wholly unknown to the statute, and if it could now be indulged, it would be the creature of courts, and the offspring of error, springing from that benign interpretation, which would not only heal entries, but make law, instead of declaring what it is. According to these principles we still approve the case of Hanson vs. Lashbrook and the series of cases quoted, bottomed upon it; and we conceive they are decisive of this controversy. To them may be added the case of Reed vs. Dinwiddie, decided at the fall term, 1820, and not yet reported. That case is so analagous to the present that it may be considered fully in point. The entry of Blackford, in this instance, reserved to itself a sliding or rather a floating attitude, ready to yield to and recede from every impulse. It was to lie around the settlement, in equal quantities, on each side if permitted; in very unequal quantities, if resisted by others--to lie on all sides--on a less number--on one--or none at all--as subsequent discoveries should dictate. Or if it might, perchance, be enabled to approach the settlement in one narrow aperture left by prior rights, it then might extend miles for quantity, or bend itself around the settlement as near as the surrounding claims should allow. Such a claim cannot be deemed a valid appropriation of land. *4 It has been contended that the existence of those claims, or of prior claims, is wholly uncertain,--that none of them are shown by the opposite side, and therefore the possibility of their existence ought not to affect the claim. But to construe the expression, "as near the centre of the land as prior claims will admit" as liberally as possible. they suggest the probability of others, and communicate a doubt whether they are there or not. To solve this doubt and uncertainty is what the locator will not attempt. To avoid its effect, he places his position doubtful and tells us he does it for fear of others. Can he be allowed to do this, and impose upon subsequent locators the solution of this doubt, without furnishing him with the means of deing so? Ought he, after such a lapse of years, to be permitted to require his adversary to show that his own doubts and fears were well founded when he made his location, or ought he to allege that they were not so, because his adversary has not chosen to prove their reality, and thereby gain a certain position to his claim which he declared at its original to be uncertain, doubtful and conditional? But the expression of this entry do not barely suggest a doubt. It suggests the existence of prior claims, and reserves the right to avoid them. Can it be rigid now to hold the locator to the truth of what he alleged by his solemn act of appropriation? We can not admit that any of the cases which have reduced the words "near," or "about," to certain calls, influence this case in principle. Wherever such a construction has been indulged it has been prompted by some other call in the entry, and the whole of these instances, are cases where the locator showed an effort to describe his position with certainty, and the doubt was whether he had done it with sufficient precision. But not one of them furnishes an instance of a conditional location--of a reservation and choice of a future position, as future events require. The struggle then was for one position, doubtfully described, and not for many positions, or such an one, as the locator should thereafter determine upon. The words "near" or "about" did not claim several attitudes, but only left somewhat doubtful how near, a beginning was to be placed. Nor do we admit the call in Miller's entry for Pollock, when Pollock was not located, until the moments afterwards, as disregarded in the case of  Blain vs. Thomson, 3 Bibb 142, to be similar in principle to the call now in question. It was shown there that a mistake was made by the locator; Pollock had the reputation of having land by virtue of a neighboring improvement. Miller meant to adjoin and not interfere with it. Pollock had not fixed his position as Miller supposed, and in that case it was demonstrated that Miller called for what did not exist, and the call was adjudged not to affect him. When Miller made this mistake he showed by name what claim he meant to avoid and furnished the locator with the means of ascertaining by recurring to the record that it was a mistake, and that Pollock had no such claim till afterwards. But had Miller suggested the adjoining of some unknown claim the name of which he kept concealed, and had left his own claim to be shifted where the discovery might be afterwards made, the case might then be faintly assimilated to the present, which calls to avoid, and recede from sundry unknown claims, as after discoveries might render it necessary. The case of Wilson vs. Fleming and Johnson, has been relied on. That case was decided on the ground that the entry of Brooks and Gilles?? pie had fixed certain bounds which could not be transcended, and those bounds did not quite include the quantity. Of course the expressions, "if there be so much vacant land fit for cultivation," could not be construed to mean a right to change position and choose, because no choice could be had, but were decided to mean the suggestion only of a doubt whether the quantity was there. *5 The call of "near" or "about," aided by other calls, will not vitiate, those calls indicate a desire in locator to enter with sufficient certainty and a doubt whether he has done so, they do not leave the entry a conditional one, to be changed as future events may require, nor will a mistaken call destroy an entry, if the entry furnishes the means of detecting the mistake. The case of Mosby's entry, as sustained by this court, Craig vs. Mosby & Cogar, is strongly relied on in support of this entry. That entry was sustained on the sole ground that the base and side lines, in a rectangular figure, were fixed and immovable and not subject to change; and that the quantity contained in the warrant, as well as the law, forbade him to go further, and that the calls and exceptions made, did not warrant a further extension. The permanency of the claim, so far as it was sustained, alone saved it. At the same time it is admitted that the decision on that entry is one furnishing as strong an example of the application of the benign interpretation as any other. However sound, or however doubtful, the principle on which it is founded may be, the principle can only embrace, and was only intended to embrace entries which were certain, to an extent not exceeding their quantity, and to support them to that extent only, and ought never to aid a case, where the whole quantity is doubtful or conditional. An entry giving a base and side lines, will be saved to the extent of the warrant, although the entry may contain sundry exceptions of other claims. The decree below must be affirmed with costs. Talbot for appellants, Crittenden contra. Ky.App. 1821. Horine's Heirs v. Craig 3 A.K.Marsh. 587, 10 Ky. 587, 1821 WL 1181 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
