(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 360,  10 Ky. 360 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1096 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Biggs v. M'Ilvain's Ex'x. Apr. 17, 1820. West Headnotes Exceptions, Bill Of 158 k 36(2) 158 Exceptions, Bill Of 158II Settlement, Signing, and Filing 158k35 Time for Presentation, Allowance, and Filing 158k36 In General 158k36(2) k. In Vacation. Most Cited  Cases A bill filed in vacation, though under a previous order of court permitting it, cannot be considered. Abatement and Revival 2 k 88 2 Abatement and Revival 2VI Waiver of Grounds of Abatement and Time and Manner of Pleading in General 2k88 k. Waiver of Failure to Revive Action. Most Cited Cases If the representative of a person, who has died pendente lite, appears and goes on to trial, without a scire facias, it is too late, after verdict, for the adversary to object the want of a scire facias. Judges 227 k 28 227 Judges 227III Rights, Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 227k28 k. Powers and Proceedings in Vacation. Most Cited Cases A judge has no authority to allow a bill of exceptions in vacation, and, if the record disclose that it was so allowed, it will not be considered. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: *1 This is a writ of error to reverse a judgment rendered in an appeal from a judgment of a justice of the peace. During its pendency in the court below, the appellant in that court, who was plaintiff in the warrant, departed this life. An order was entered on motion of the appellee below, directing a scire facias to revive the proceedings against his executrix. This scire facias did not issue; but at a subsequent term, both parties appeared and proceeded to trial, without any objection, for the want of a scire facias or any other cause. If the representative of a decedent lis pendens appears and goes on to trial without a sci. fa., it is too late after verdict for the adversary to object the want of a sci. fa. A verdict and judgment was rendered for the executrix, and the want of a scire facias is now assigned for error. This assignment can not avail the plaintiff in error. The want of a scire facias was his own fault, and was supplied by the appearance of the opposite party. On that appearance, it was wholly unnecessary. The remaining questions arise out of a bill of exceptions taken as if to the opinion of the court, during the progress of the trial, copied in the record. But this exception was allowed and signed by the judge in vacation, and directed to be made a part of the record. We have not thought it necessary to notice the merits of the question made by the exception. For we are not apprised of any law which authorized the court below to sign, allow, and make part of the record, an exception to his opinion after the term was over. Such a practice might be fraught with pernicious consequences, if it were warranted by law; and as it is wholly unauthorized and improper, we feel ourselves bound to disregard it, as not composing a part of the record. A bill of exceptions allowed and signed by the judge in vacation, though copied in the record, is no part thereof, and can not be noticed. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1820. Biggs v. McIlvain's Ex'x 3 A.K.Marsh. 360, 10 Ky. 360, 1821 WL 1096 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
