(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 358,  10 Ky. 358 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1094 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jeremiah Strode v. James Ross et al. Apr. 20, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FLEMING CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 209.1 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(B) Objections and Motions, and Rulings Thereon 30k208 Sufficiency of Evidence 30k209.1 k. Necessity of Objection. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 30k209(1)) Where, in an action of ejectment, judgment was given in favor of tenants who had not been made defendants, or any one for them and the plaintiff moved for a new trial on account of the verdict's being contrary to the evidence, which motion was overruled, and the plaintiff excepted thereto, it was held, in the court of appeals, that though the verdict was a nullity, for error, yet, it not having been objected to on that ground, it was of no importance whether the evidence supported the issue, and a new trial could not be granted. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an action of ejectment in which a verdict was rendered in favor of some of the tenants, on the ground of their having had twenty years' possession. The plaintiff below moved for a new trial, on account of the verdict being contrary to evidence, and the court overruled the motion, and the plaintiff then excepted and spread the evidence upon the record, and has appealed. He now assigns for error, that the court erred in overruling the motion. We have not thought it proper to decide on the evidence. For it will be perceived by the record, that those tenants, in favor of whom a verdict was found, had not been made defendants, nor was any one made defendant for them. The verdict then might be counted a nullity, or such a proceeding as did not authorize the judgment against the plaintiff. But on this ground it was not questioned in the court below, nor is it here assigned for error, that the court erred in rendering judgment on the verdict against the plaintiff. Whether the evidence, then, supported the issue on the part of the defendants, is wholly immaterial. And a motion for a new trial, instead of other proceedings, was asking for that which could not, and ought not, to have been granted. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Hardin, for plaintiff; Pope and Bibb, for defendants in error. Ky.App. 1820. Strode v. Ross 3 A.K.Marsh. 358, 10 Ky. 358, 1821 WL 1094 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
