(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 186,  10 Ky. 186 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1194 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Comb's Devisees v. Hite's Heirs. Oct. 8, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A DECREE OF THE WASHINGTON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A call was to lie on "S. creek, at the fork, to include A.'s improvement."  It appearing that the creek was not known by the name of "S." at the date of the certificate, that there were four forks, to either of which the reputation of "forks" was attached, and that A.'s improvement was not notorious, it was held that an entry depending on a pre-emption certificate, containing the above call, could not be supported. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a bill brought by Cuthbert Combs, in his lifetime, setting up an entry of 1,000 acres of land against adverse interfering claims. The entry relied on is made on a treasury warrant on the 15th May, 1780, and its calls are "upon Simpson's creek, adjoining William Brashears pre-emption, on the upper end, and extending up the creek for quantity." A certificate in the name of William Brashears is filed, dated the 18th February, 1780, and reads as follows: "William Brashears this day claimed a pre-emption of 400 acres, at the state price, in the district of Kentucky, on account of making an actual settlement in the month of May, 1779, lying on Simpson's creek, at the fork, to include his improvement. Satisfactory proof being made to the court, they are of opinion the said Brashears has a right to a pre-emption of 400 acres of land, to include the said improvement, and that a certificate issue accordingly." The complainant having died as the suit progressed, it was revived in the name of his devisees; and, on a final hearing, the circuit court, deeming the complainants' entry invalid, dismissed their bill with costs; to reverse which decree this writ of error is prosecuted. The entry of William Brashears is not filed, and many of the defendants deny in their answer that it was ever made. If, therefore, the entry of the plaintiff in error can be sustained, it must be done by attaching it to Brashears' certificate, the calls of which must be taken as part of Comb's entry. The call in the certificate for Simpson's creek itself is not well supported. One witness speaks of being on it in 1776, and of aiding Joseph Brashears and some others to make a cabin on it for W. Brashears, which is now claimed as his improvement. He speaks of it by the name of Simpson's creek, but does not say he knew it then by that name. Glen, another witness conveys the idea that he knew it by that name in 1777. For although he does not say expressly that it was then so called, yet he states that he knew no other place called the forks of Simpson's creek, at that time, but the junction of the east and main fork, which are now claimed by the complainant. But when this testimony is compared with that of Simpson, after whom the creek was called, and who was not on it till 1779, in the month of June, when the name was given, in the presence of three other persons, and also with that of M'Gee, who was one of those present, it is believed to be most probable that Glen was mistaken as to dates, and that the creek did not acquire its name till that period, and no witness deposes that it was generally known by that name, to those conversant in its vicinity, till after the date of the entry. But even if Simpson's creek is admitted to be notorious, it presents four forks. The complainants below claim the lowest on the creek and attempt, by two or three witnesses, to attach the name "fork,," by reputation to that point, and with these witnesses he is successful. But the defendants, by an equal or greater number, shew that the reputation of the forks was equally attached to the others, and more so to some of them; and they being equally forks by nature, with the one claimed, may well rival it, and render it an uncertain call. If any thing could sustain the entry, laboring under these difficulties, it would be notoriety in the improvement of William Brashears sufficient to determine what creek, or, at least, what fork was intended. It is shewn that Joseph Brashears made the improvement in 1776, in company with a few others, and that it was known to the company to be made for William Brashears. That in 1779, Pottinger passing it told the party, consisting of four persons, that it was Brashears' or that he supposed it to have been made by a brother of William Brashears and his company, and this is all the attempt at notoriety, while Simpson and others, conversant with the creek, knew nothing about it. Add to this, that there are various other improvements shewn on the creek, and some of them nameless as well as this; and that two others fit two others forks of the creek by being equally near them, It can not therefore be contended that the improvement in any degree aids the claim. For it is equally or more uncertain than the other calls. *2 The decree of the court below must therefore be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1820. Comb's Devisees v. Hite's Heirs 3 A.K.Marsh. 186, 10 Ky. 186, 1820 WL 1194 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
