(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 188,  10 Ky. 188 (Ky.),  1820 WL 1195 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Findlay v. Harlan's Heirs. Oct. 9, 1820. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE FLEMING CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(2) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(2) k. Rights of Settlers and Occupants. Most Cited  Cases A pre-emption certificate, calling to include by a certain boundary, from which it cannot depart, a much greater quantity of land than the law allowed, is invalid. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry calling "to begin at the northwest corner of an old private survey 76 poles from the creek on the south side," without any indications of how said corner is to be found, is invalid. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is a suit in chancery, wherein the validity of interfering claims is in issue. The complainant claims by virtue of a certificate granted to him by the county court of Fayette, on the 12th March, 1782, and its calls are--"situate on the main branch of Licking creek--to include an improvement made in the year 1773 by said Findlay--and to be bounded by a survey made at the time for him, which includes the upper Blue Licks, by virtue of such marking out and improving, and his being in public service when the commissioners sat in the district, and thereby prevented from applying for the same." After this certificate, on the 14th November, 1783, he made an entry in the following words--"John Findlay enters 1,000 acres of land on pre-emption warrant, No. 2536, on Licking, to include the upper Blue Licks, and bounded on the sides by the lines of an old survey made in the year 1773--beginning at a white oak, (the N. W. corner of said old survey) 76 poles from the creek on the south side. Thence with the old lines S. 15 W, 480 poles, to a dog-wood corner-- Thence S. 75 E, 333 1-3 poles--Thence N, 15 E, 480 poles, to a line of the old survey--Thence along said line N, 75 W, 333 1-3 to the beginning." Licking and the upper Blue Licks are shewn to be unquestionably notorious at, and long before, the date of this certificate and entry. The proof is made by the surveyor, that in 1773 the complainant, and a considerable company of others came from the then disputed territory between Virginia and Pennsylvania,and executed sundry surveys for the company on the north fork of Licking and elsewhere; and among the rest, one including the upper Blue Licks. That after the company returned to their homes, they drew lots for their surveys, and the one in question fell to the complainant. It does not appear that any of the company was ever again in Kentucky till long after this entry was made; but the contrary seems to be the fact, except one, who appeared before the county court when the certificate was obtained, as a witness. The complainant himself entered the United States' revolutionary army, and served in the eighth regiment of the Pennsylvania line, till about the close of the year 1783. The surveyor, who has deposed on the occasion, fixes the corners of the old survey as called for in the entry, and states that each line was 480 poles long, including 1,440 acres. That he began at a point on one line of the survey, and started in one direction, while another surveyor started at at the same point and run an opposite course, and they were each to do half and then close the survey by meeting as they continued round. That he did his contemplated half; but it does not appear they ever met, and the contrary is to be inferred from the language of the witness. It also appears that at a period long subsequent, a part of the old line was found, when the survey wase xecuted,being that part proved to have been made by the original surveyor, then anciently marked, and such appears to be the case at this time. But there is no proof shewing that Finlay had any improvement other than the survey aforesaid; nor is there any proof that the private survey ever acquired any degree of notoriety, or that it was ever found, except it was shewn by one of the party who aided in making it, and that after the entry in question was made. *2 In deciding on this case, the court below destroyed the certificate but sustained the entry of the complainant and likewise the entry of the defendant. But after it had given the latter its position, it covered all the interference with the complainant; and as it was elder than the complainant's entry, though posterior to his certificate, the court dimissed the complainant's bill; from which decree the complainant has appealed. The objection which presents itself to this certificate on its first appearance, to-wit, that of its including, by a certain boundary, from which it can not depart, 440 acres more of land than the law allowed, must be fatal to it, even if it was in other respects unexceptionable. Land was included which the law allowed not to be there; and one part of the boundary, fixed by the old line, was as sacred as the other. No spot could be departed from without violating its calls. We can not adopt the mode of surveying it on all four sides, and thereby include the land common to each survey, for each survey would violate the certificate. Whenever then it contends with another claimant, he ought to be allowed the privilege of saying that it must seek its interest elsewhere, and not covering him, or rather as it is uncertain where it must take its position, it must have it no where, as was decided by this court in the case of an entry embracing, by a certain boundary, more than its quantity could cover, in the case of Coleman v. Henderson, 1 Marsh. 412. Independent, however, of this objection, this certificate could not be sustained, even if the survey contained the exact quantity appropriated. It communicates to the enquirer the isolated facts of the existence of a private survey there, and assumes its lines as the boundary, and leaves that boundary untold. In what manner the survey included the lick, could not be told. No record or public document told it. The various positions in which even a rectangular figure, with lines of equal length including the lick, might be placed, would almost exceed the power of numbers, and the lines of the survey might extend in number, from the number of a triangle to that of the most complex and irregular polygon; and if by accident they should be found, no means would be left by which it could be determined to be the survey intended. The complainant then can derive no aid from his certificate, but must rely on his entry alone with the surveyor of a much later date. It must be confessed that the entry does aid some of the defects in the certificate. It curtails the quantity, and only takes what the warrant could cover. It gives the courses and distances of the lines, as well as point of beginning, and the kind of timber of which two of the corners were composed. In a word, it furnished completely the means of determining that the survey was the one intended, after any one of the lines and corners were found, and the question remains, could they certainly have been found by using reasonable diligence in making the search? The enquirer at the lick, with the entry in his hand, would then know that he was within an oblong made by an old survey, the lines of which were one mile and one half by a mile and thirteen poles and a third, and that the lines ran fifteen degrees variant from the cardinal points of the compass. He would then be in dense woods, except so far as it was subdued by the irregular and frequent use of the beasts of the forest, and which line or which corner was nearest to him, and which direction he should choose to start, out of every point of the compass, as the most successful one to make the search, must be a source of much embarrassment. Was he to search near the lick or a mile from it? By casualty or extraordinary success he might find some mark which would lead him to trace it and be successful; but where is the certainty that he would do so? Would it be reasonable to require of him such instinctive movement as would perchance make him successful, when he could derive no aid from the information of any resident of the country? We conceive not, unless some more particular description in the entry shall furnish him with a direction, and give him some intimation of the distance.--The only thing in the entry which can claim to be the correct clue, is the call "beginning at a white oak the N. W. corner of said old survey, 76 poles from the creek on the south side." By this he is told that the north-west corner of the old survey is a white oak, and that it stands on the south side of the creek 76 poles from the stream. He must also know, if acquainted at all with the course of the stream, that this corner, to include the lick in the survey, must be nearly opposite to, or below, the lick. But when he comes to apply the survey to the general course of the creek below, he would find that the survey might be extended so low down the river as the whole length of its side line, being one mile and one-half, or nearly so, and still barely include the lick within its upper boundary, or extended so far up the river as barely to include the lick within the lower boundary, in which case the north-west corner of the survey must be posted 76 poles from the creek nearly opposite to the lick. We will, however, suppose that he has gone through this sliding process, and that he has meandered the stream, and fixed the highest and lowest point 76 poles from the creek on the south side, from which he can construct the survey according to the courses so as to include the lick, and that he has connected these two points by a line with a serpentine course, conformed to the meanders of the stream, nearly one mile and one-half in length when reduced, and still longer with its courses, and that he has examined every spot on that line, large enough to contain the base of the tree, yet he would not find it. For it appears from the plat that the tree stands eighteen poles and one-half short of the distance of 76 poles from the creek, that is, counting the distance on the first line of the survey to the crossing of the creek; but counting it to the nearest point on the creek below that, the distance is still shorter to the river. But assuming the line of the survey as the correct course to measure the distance to the creek, and thus the meandering line, 76 poles from the creek, must be extended in width eighteen poles and one-half, and on this border the enquirer might be compelled to search a space of that breadth, nearly one mile and one-half long, on a direct line, for every white oak which stood upon it to find the one intended. Add to this, that if the locator is allowed to vary eighteen poles and one-half nearer the creek, he ought to be allowed the same deviation verging further from it, and thus extend the stripe to be searched to the width of thirty-seven poles, and thus the burden of search be greatly augmented. Painful, laborious and excessive in the time required, would be the search imposed upon a subsequent locator, by sustaining this entry, especially when it is recollected that the trees, and probably those of the same kind, were numerous, and covered the whole unconquered forest;--as well might he be driven on a lengthy and broad shore to search out one grain of sand which could be distinguished from others, among the myriads which covered it. The entry, therefore, of the appellant is adjudged invalid, and cannot be sustained. It was suggested in argument for the appellant, and partially conceded by his adversary, that to suppose that a subsequent locator would have found this entry would not be extending greater leniency towards it than had been extended by this court on former occasions entries calling for ancient surveys; but on a critical examination of the cases, it is conceived this will be found to be correct. It must however be admitted, that entries in this respect, as well as most others, have not been subjected to very rigid rules.  These cases, Key v. Matson, Moore v. Whitledge and Reno, Respass and Metton v. Arnold, and Cartwright v. Collier, Hard. 70, 89, 116, 179, subjected such calls for ancient surveys to the same principles with other calls. Such surveys must be either accessible on the records and contain such description with reference to other known objects, as would ascertain their position, or they must be shewn to have actual notoriety in themselves, or some circumstances must be proved from which notoriety could be fairly presumed. The circumstance of a person's residing upon the survey, of the general territory included by their being known and distinguished in the neighborhood, and of the fact being well understood that the survey existed, or of the survey being military, which, from its dangerous character to locators, would necessarily become an object of fear, and search to them or some similar circumstances have often caused this notoriety of surveys, as well as a knowledge of their position to be supplied by presumption. But it is believed a case can not be found, where a survey possessing no notoriety in itself, and rests on its description with regard to other objects, and that description has great uncertainty and has imposed upon enquirers painful and dubious search, has been sustained as a good locative call. If such cases should exist, they ought rather to be made to conform to the principle, that an entry to be good is one, that can certainly be found on using reasonable diligence; than that the principle should be marred, by the detail of the cases. Notoriety and description are used for the sole purpose of shewing that an entry can be found, and all cases must be so construed as to let this imperious rule pass through them unhurt. We shall further remark that if any additional facts could sustain the entry in question, it would be by proving that the line from the white oak tree was well marked to the river, so that any person passing down the river, on or near its margin, could certainly, by searching, have found it. On this point, however, the proof is deficient. No witness states it, nor does the original report of survey make it appear. It is true the report of survey under the interlocutory decree, states the pursuit of an old marked line from the tree; but of what date that line was, or whether well marked, or not, or whether the marks approach the river, is not stated. For these reasons, therefore, without relying on the reasons assigned by the court below, we concur in affirming the decision of that court with costs. *3 A certificate for a pre-emption, calling for the lines of an old private survey, and containing considerably more land than the warrant justifies, is bad, nor can it be rendered valid by surveying on each line and claiming that only which is covered in common--the call for the lines can not be abandoned. A certificate calling for the lines of a private survey, without describing the figure of the survey, or how those lines are to be found, is void for uncertainty. An entry calling to begin at the N. W. corner of an old private survey, without describing distinctly how that corner is to be found, is invalid, particularly if, at the time it was made, there was no one in the country of whom enquiries could successfully have been made as to its position; nor will the facility with which the corner would have been recognized if found from its correspondence with the description, aid the entry. An entry to be valid must be one which can certainly be found by using reasonable diligence. Bibb for appellant, Hardin for appellee. Ky.App. 1820. Findlay v. Harlan's Heirs 3 A.K.Marsh. 188, 10 Ky. 188, 1820 WL 1195 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
