(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 280,  10 Ky. 280 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1060 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Beeler's Heirs v. Bullitt's Heirs. Apr. 9, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 249 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(B) Opening or Vacating 161k249 k. Irregularities or misconduct affecting sale. Most  Cited Cases Under the law directing chattels first,, then slaves, and lastly land, to be taken on execution, if the sheriff violates the law, the sale on execution is not invalidated. Execution 161 k 275(2) 161 Execution 161XI Sale 161XI(F) Title and Rights of Purchaser 161k275 Effect of Defects or Irregularities in Execution, Levy,  or Sale 161k275(2) k. Judgment or execution. Most Cited  Cases Where all other proceedings were regular, the title acquired by purchase of lands at execution sale were not affected by the fact that such lands were taken under the execution without first attempting to find personal property. Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 27 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186I Transfers and Transactions Invalid 186I(B) Nature and Form of Transfer 186k27 k. Transfers as security. Most Cited  Cases A mortgage made to defraud creditors and a foreclosure under it are void as to creditors. Partition 288 k 39 288 Partition 288II Actions for Partition 288II(B) Proceedings and Relief 288k37 Jurisdiction 288k39 k. Courts of equity. Most Cited  Cases Courts of common law and equity exercise concurrent jurisdiction in directing partition, and then compelling titles to be made in confirmation of it;  but a party cannot be precluded from resorting to a court of equity merely because he acquired his title by a sale and conveyance directed by law. Infants 211 k 1240(1) 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(A) Role of Representative or Counsel 211k1234 Guardian Ad Litem or Next Friend 211k1240 Proceedings for  Appointment 211k1240(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k80(1)) The answer of a guardian ad litem is conclusive notice of his appointment. Infants 211 k 1311 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(B) Course of Proceedings 211k1305 Judgment or Order 211k1311 k. Collateral attack. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k112) Judicial acts are obligatory upon infants, unless they avoid them by direct process, and an infant is estopped from gainsaying the record when its effects are brought to bear upon him in any other controversy. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The ancestor of the appellees having obtained a judgment at law, in an action of covenant against Charles Jones and Charles Beeler, issued execution and levied on the interest of Charles Beeler of and in a tract of land, and sold that interest, became himself the purchaser, and received the conveyance from the sheriff. This interest was the undivided sixth part of a tract of land, the legal title of which was in Beeler's ancestor at his death, and then descended to him jointly with five other heirs. Having thus acquired the title he exhibited this bill to obtain a division of the tract, and to have his part assigned to him in severalty, making the remaining heirs, some purchasers under them, and Charles Beeler, defendants. All these defendants made default, except John C. Beeler, one of the heirs and the purchaser under him, and two infant defendants. J. C. Beeler alleges claim to the whole ground first, by a verbal gift from his father before the descent cast; and secondly, by a mortgage and foreclosure thereof, and sale under it, executed to him the said John C. Beeler, by the said Charles Beeler, including all his interest in his father's estate. The defendants also contend in their answers, that the sheriff's sale was irregular--that the estate was sold far below its value, and is therefore unconscientious--and that Charles Beeler against whom the execution issued was an infant when he made the contract on which judgment was obtained, and also when the writ was executed, and out of the state when judgment was rendered; and therefore, the sale was invalid. The court below decreed partition of the whole tract, from which decree Beeler's heirs have appealed. *2 Besides other objections to the sale, the sheriff's deed was objected to on the trial, as not conformable to law. We do not perceive the ground of this objection. The deed is an indenture executed both by the principal sheriff and the deputy, who made the sale, and is acknowledged and recorded in the proper office, and recites the execution with sufficient precision, and sets forth the sale accordant with the return. It was therefore properly admitted, as containing the requisites of the act of assembly. It is relied on, that Charles Jones, one of the defendants in the execution, had sufficient personal estate and slaves to satisfy the execution, instead of taking the land. This defence is not fully supported by the proof. If he had such estate, it is evident that it was difficult to find it, and that it was kept out of the way of creditors, and Bullitt, by previous executions, had searched for both estate and person. But if this fact be admitted, it will not follow that the sale was vitious. The law directing, first, chattels, then slaves, and lastly, land, to be taken, is directory to the sheriff. If he violates it to the injury of the debtor in an execution, he may become responsible for that injury. But it does not result that the purchaser of lands so taken under execution, even if he be the creditor, who has not been instrumental in causing the sheriff thus to violate the law, is to have his title affected, especially after he has tried by other fruitless executions to reach other estate before he touched the land. The remaining objections to this sale, are also untenable. The defendants seem to mistake the law, so far as to suppose that the plaintiff claiming under a sale by execution, is bound to shew that all the requisites of the law, in making the sale, has been complied with, instead of placing the onus probandi on the other side, and compelling him who opposes the sale to prove it irregular. The appellants have called on the appellees for proof of the regularity of the sale, and have adduced no proof impeaching it. If lands are taken in execution after an abortive attempt to find personal property, or even if there be no attempt the purchaser will be protected all other proceedings being correct, but in the latter case the sheriff may be liable and the onus probandi to shew irregularity in the sale, rests on the party wishing to vacate it. Infancy is a personal privilege, and unless claimed by the party, can not be urged by another, unless he is privy in estate. The infancy of Charles Beeler, at the date of the contract, on which the judgment at law is founded, may admit of two answers. Charles Beeler himself, in the trial at law, waived this privilege and did not plead his infancy. In this suit he is equally silent, and the rule is well settled, that infants must avail themselves of this privilege, and others can not do it for them. If any others can, they must be privies in estate, and John C. Beeler claims to be such by virtue of his mortgage. To avail himself of this attitude, his title must be a sound one, which will hereafter be tested. But admit this title to be sound, it can not place John C. Beeler in a better situation than Charles himself would be, if he had made the plea himself, and we do not conceive that he could now avail himself of the defence in this collateral way. *3 Acts in pais by an infant, may frequently be void; but not so as to judicial acts. They are obligatory upon him, unless he avoid them by direct process, such as a writ of error coram vobis audita querela, & c. If these methods are not resorted to, he is bound by the record and estopped from gainsaying it, when its effects are brought to bear upon him in any other controversy. Such we conceive to be the judgment of Bullitt, and as it is not vacated by the infant, he is bound by it in all other controversies, and so is his alienee, John C. Beeler. The title of John C. Beeler, by gift from his father, is wholly unsupported by proof, and his title by mortgage and foreclosure from Charles Beeler must be his remaining defence. This mortgage is executed, acknowledged and recorded in proper time, and a decree of foreclosure and sale to John C. Beeler under it, is produced. But to this decree, Bullitt was no party, and not only the mortgage, recorded as it is, but the decree and sale under it, must be as void as to creditors under the act to prevent frauds and perjuries, as any other security, if it is made with intent to delay, hinder, or defraud creditors. To prove that this deed and decree is of that character, the appellees have established the following facts, to-wit: That Bullitt himself was then pursuing his claim and was near to judgment against Charles Beeler. That Charles Beeler was considerably indebted and embarrassed at the time the mortgage was executed. It is rendered very improbable that John C. Beeler had with Charles Beeler, any dealings at the time, from which a debt of near five thousand dollars, the sum expressed in the mortgage, could have risen. It is shewn, that no money was paid, or any other valuable thing, at the date of the mortgage, and that John C. Beeler produced an amount of fifteen hundred dollars against Charles, as his whole claim, and yet took a mortgage falsely, according to his own shewing, to secure above three times that amount. The mortgage appears to include every thing, both real and personal, claimed by Charles Beeler, and his declarations are shewn before the mortgage was executed, announcing his intention to execute it for the purpose of securing his estate against his creditors. Such facts warrant the decision, that the mortgage is fraudulent, and utterly void as to the creditor, Bullitt; and for this reason, it was properly disregarded by the court below. A mortgage and foreclosure made to delay, &c., credit can not be set up, and circumstances may be adduced to shew the character of the mortgage. It has been contended in this cause, that the claim of the appellees is purely legal, and therefore equity ought not to enforce it. That they have a legal remedy, and therefore ought not to be indulged in a court of equity. It must be admitted that the claim of the appellees is a legal one, and that by law their ancestor acquired his right; but we do not admit, that this is a bill to enforce the sheriff's sale, or give the appellees a title under it. The sale and consequent title was vested long before this bill was brought, and Bullitt became a tenant in common with the remaining heirs of Beeler, and as such, had a right to demand partition. If he knew or believed that John C. Beeler's mortgage was fraudulent, he did right in treating it as a nullity and selling the estate, and he afterwards ought to be allowed to shew it such, either at law or in equity. This bill, we conceive, is a bill for partition, and that the obstacles to it, have arisen from the fraudulent claim of the appellant, John C. Beeler, which was properly disregarded. No doubt, a court of common law is competent to render judgment of partition or severance; but with the court of common law equity has claimed and exercised concurrent jurisdiction in directing partition, and then compelling title to be made in confirmation of it, and we see no reason why the appellees or their ancestors should be precluded from resorting to that mode, barely because he acquired his title by a sale and conveyance directed by law. The effect of it was the same, as if acquired in another mode. As he has had his election, to come either into a court of law or equity, and has chosen the latter, the result has proved that this choice was wise, as he has thereby had the opportunity of extinguishing forever, the pretended title of John C. Beeler, under his mortgage. *4 In making partition between tenants in common, chancery and common law have concurrent jurisdiction. If a guardian ad litem answers, it is proof that he has notice of the appointment and accepts of the charge. It is contended, that as two of Beeler's heirs were infants, and a guardian was assigned to defend them, the court ought not to have heard the cause until that guardian had accepted the appointment or answered. A guardian was appointed, who does not appear to have consented at the date of the appointment. He afterwards swore to, and filed in due time, his answer for the infants in the clerk's office, which acts conclusively shew the notice of his appointment and consent to serve. This answer was among the papers, used by the court and noticed of record on the hearing, which evidently shews, that the full benefit of it, was allowed to the two infant defendants, and they can not complain because it was previously noted of record. The want of such noting might have furnished the complainants below with a ground of continuance; but can not avail those who failed to have it noted, and received the benefit of it on the trial, and then attempt to complain of their own default, when a decree is rendered against them. Upon the whole case, therefore, we conceive there is no error in the decree of the court below, and it must be affirmed with costs. Littell & Pope, for appellants; Hardin, contra. Ky.App. 1821. Beeler's Heirs v. Bullitt's Heirs 3 A.K.Marsh. 280, 10 Ky. 280, 1821 WL 1060 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 161 END OF DOCUMENT
