(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 517,  19 Ky. 517 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1338 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Durrett v. Simpson's Representatives. Oct. 6, 1826. *1 Rescission of Contracts. Compensation. Title. Mistake. Waste. Services. Privileges. Reservations. Water Works. Interest. Rents. Improvements. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 123(1) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k123 Operation as Tenancy from Year to Year, Month to Month, or  at Will, of Estate or Interest Created Without Writing 185k123(1) k. Estate at Will. Most Cited  Cases A parol grant of the privilege of laying a pipe from a spring creates only a tenancy at will. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 110 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k106 Right to Rescind 400k110 k. Breach of Covenant or Condition in General.  Most Cited Cases A. sold to B. a lot of land with a hotel on it which was supplied with water by pipes leading from a spring owned by A., and situated some 300 yards from the hotel.  A. stipulated in his contract, "that the privilege of the water works, as they now are," shall remain to B. forever, and the privilege of the conveyance of the water "as it now is."  After this contract, A. sold the spring and the intervening lands, reserving, in all the deeds but one, the right of entering and repairing the pipes, and in that one it was stipulated that the pipes should "remain undisturbed."  B., having paid all the purchase money before the day when the property was to have been delivered, refused to accept a conveyance, and filed his bill for a rescission of the contract and recovery of the money paid by him. Held, that the contract should be rescinded. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 203 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(A) As to Each Other 400k203 k. Injuries to Property. Most Cited  Cases If the vendor or his tenants commit waste between the contract and the time for making the conveyance and delivery of possession, the vendor must tender compensation with the deed, or the vendee may refuse to receive it. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 334(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(A) Recovery of Purchase Money Paid 400k334 Grounds for Recovery of Payments 400k334(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A. sold to B. a lot of land with a hotel on it, which was supplied with water by pipes leading from a spring owned by A., and situated some 300 yards from the hotel.  A. stipulated in his contract "that the privilege of the waterworks, as they now are," shall remain to B., forever, and the privilege of the conveyance of the water "as it now is."  After this contract A. sold the spring and the intervening lands, reserving, in all the deeds but one, the right of entering and repairing the pipes, and in that one it was stipulated that the pipes should "remain undisturbed."  B., having paid all the purchase money before the day when the property was to have been delivered, refused to accept a conveyance, and filed his bill for a rescission of the contract and recovery of the money paid by him. Held, that the contract should be rescinded, and that A. should refund the price paid by B.;  the rents during the time B. occupied the premises to be set off against the interest. Abatement and Revival 2 k 71 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k71 k. Nature and Necessity. Most Cited  Cases Where defendant dies after answer, the suit may be revived against his administrators and infant heirs by consent. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Paul Durrett, the appellant, purchased of Joseph Simpson a lot of ground in Mountsterling, with sundry buildings situated thereon, used as a tavern called a hotel, at the price of seven thousand dollars, and for part of the price thereof, paid him another house and lot at the price of two thousand six hundred dollars. The contract was made and reduced to writing on the 7th of March, 1817, in the form of articles of agreement. Besides the $2,600 for the house and lot aforesaid, Durrett paid $500 in hand, and was to assign him a note on John Pugh & Co., for the sum of $715, and to deliver up Simpson's own notes for $165; and was further to pay $1,000 on the 13th of January, 1819, $1,000 on the 13th January, 1820, and $1,000 more, the last payment, on the first January, 1821. The estate was then held by Thomas L. Patterson, under a lease from Simpson, which did not expire till the 13th of January, 1819, on which day Simpson stipulated to give the full possession of it, and was to convey at any time, so soon as the boundaries were ascertained. Statement of contract of the purchase of the hotel by Durrett from Simpson. Durrett paid all the payments due before the 13th of January, 1819, when the possession was to be delivered, and shortly after that day filed this bill, praying a rescission of the contract, and a restoration of the payments made, relying on sundry grounds stated in his bill, all of which are either untrue or untenable, and need not be notieced, except the following: Durrett's bill for rescissions. First: That the boundary was ascertained, but it left out a part of the stable which was attached to the premises and named in the articles, as sold; it being situated, in part, on an adjoining lot, and divided by the true line. Allegations of the bill as to defect of title as to part of the ground. Second: That Thomas L. Patterson, the tenant of Simpson, during tenancy, and after the purchase of Durrett, had so wasted, injured, and dilapidated the house, that it would take a large sum to repair it; and Simpson, on that day, could not surrender the possession, in the order in which he was bound to do it, according to the tenor of his contract. Allegations as to waste. Thirdly: That Simpson owned a spring near three hundred yards from the hotel, from which he had formerly made a conduit, or line of pipes under ground, which conducted water in abundance, into the yard of the hotel, where the water was discharged in abundance for necessary purposes, all which were in existence at the date of the purchase; and in the articles of agreement, Simpson had covenanted, in the following words:--"That the privilege of the water-works, as they now are, shall remain, and the benefit thereof remain to said Durrett forever, so far as respects the right to the spring, and the privilege of the conveyance of the water as it now is." That Simpson, after the date of the contract, had branched lines of pipes from the main conduit, and sold the benefit of the water to others, thereby robbing the premises sold of its supply. That the line passed through grounds not held by him, and from the owners thereof, he had no conveyance or grant authorizing him to continue the use of the pipes, and had disabled himself, and curtailed that privilege on his own grounds, and, therefore, could not convey the privilege of the water-works as they were at the date of the contract; and that the supply of water was of great value to the estate sold. *3 Statement of the bill as to the water-works. That on the day that possession was to be delivered, he tendered $1,000 specie, then due, and Simpson, by his agent, tendered a deed of conveyance, which he, Durrett, refused to accept, because the dower of Simpson's wife was not relinquished--because the deed did not include the stable--because the estate was then much injured by Simpson's tenants, and because the conveyance tendered did not pass and secure the privilege of the water-works as they existed at the date of the contract, and could not at that time do so. That Simpson tendered the possession which he refused to receive. Tender of conveyance, of possession and of money, and each refused. Simpson answers, obtains judgment at law; Durrett enjoins; Simpson dies, and the suit is revived by consent. The defendant, Simpson, answered, contesting or denying all these grounds of equity. He afterwards sued at law to recover the purchase money, and recovered judgments, which Durrett enjoined by an amended bill. During the progress of the cause, Simpson departed this life, and the cause was revived by consent, against his administrators and heirs. On a final hearing, the court below decided against all the grounds of equity set up in the bill, except that which charged that the stable did not all stand on the premises sold, which the court held not to be sufficient to vacate the contract, but only to entitle the complainant to compensation. This compensation was ascertained by a jury, and the court credited it on the judgments at law, and dissolved the injunction for the residue, with damages, and dismissed the bill, directing each party to bear their own costs. From this decree Durrett appealed, and its merits are now before us. Decree of the circuit court refusing a rescission, but giving compensation for the ground not embraced by vendor's conveyance. The court below did right in sustaining the claim for the lot sold not including the stable. For it is evident from the proof, that the stable, which is expressly mentioned as included in the sale, and which was supposed to be on one boundary line, is projected over the line about five feet four inches. On whose ground it is extended, does not certainly appear. Perhaps by the plat it is on the street or public square; but certain it is, on ground not belonging to Simpson. This would subject Durrett to a removal or loss of the stable, and of course to some expence. But as this was evidently a mere mistake of the parties, and might have arisen between different surveyors; and as the stable is one of logs and of some age, and no objection to its removed, is shewn, and the expense of removal is proven to be about one hundred dollars, assuming this as the only ground of equity sustained, we should not be disposed to disturb the decree of the court below on this point. Had this mistake been known at the time, it might have occasioned a provision in the contract, to meet the inconvenience; but it is not probable that it would have prevented the contract altogether, or essentially altered any of its features; and such mistakes are frequently held in equity to be a subject of compensation, rather than a ground of rescission of a contract, to which they bear but a very small proportion in value. But such mistakes when not alone, but are joined to other tenable grounds in a question of rescission of contracts, may become additional reason for rescission. We shall, therefore, examine the remaining grounds relied on here, and see whether they be or be not tenable to any extent, before we determine that this mistake shall have no greater weight in the decision of the controversy. *4 Want of title to an unimportant part of the ground, a subject of compensation, not ground for rescission. We do not concur with the court below in overruling the claim for damages and injury done to the estate by the tenants of Simpson, after the day of sale, and before the possession was to be delivered. On this point there is no express provision in the articles of sale. Of course it may be assumed that, the purchaser meant to run the risk of deterioration by an ordinary and proper use of the estate. But it is against the intention of the parties, and the spirit of the contract, to suppose that the vendee was to bear every injury which might be inflicted on the estate, until the possession was delivered. In a contract to convey and deliver possession, at a future day, the purchaser bears ordinary deterioary, not the waste of vendor's tenants. It is clearly shewn that Patterson, the tenant of Simpson, frequently gave up the use of a room or rooms in the house, to be used by mountebanks and exhibitors of shows and spectacles for gain, who drove spikes into the floors, or walls, or inserted screws into them to suspend their scenery and apparatus, which injured the floors, and broke, in many places, the plastering on the walls which were made of brick, which was of considerable injury. But what is still more, the tenant or some of his sub-tenants, suffered the garret to be very improperly appropriated, by reason of which the plastering was much stained, and loosened from its hold in the lower appartments of the house, so that the costs of repairing it would be considerable. Fvidence of the waste committed, and suffered by Simpson and his tenants. As to this cost of repairing, there is some contrariety in the testimony; but as to the appropriation of the rooms to these purposes there is no conflict. Two or three persons who were called to assess damages for this injury to the estate between Simpson and Patterson, depose that they assessed it to about twenty dollars, and suppose that sum to be enough for the difference in the property, between the commencement and termination of Patterson's tenancy. But these witnesses must have went on the supposition that much of this injury had been done before Patterson entered. For there are two or three others who boarded with Patterson, and knew well the condition of the house, before and afterwards, and who are plasterers, and, therefore, proper judges of much of the injury, fix its date after the sale, and depose that the plastering can not be repaired by patching it, but must be removed and the walls washed, to place the house in the same situation, and the costs for doing so would be from five to seven hundred dollars. If waste be committed, between the contract and the time for making the conveyance and delivering possession, by vendor or his tenants, vendor must tender compensation with the possession and deed, otherwise vendee may refuse them. We will not, for the present, inquire whether this alone would be good grounds for rescinding the contract. It must at least be a matter of fair compensation. As no such compensation was offered or tendered to Durrett, on the day that his possession was to commence, he might be well warranted in refusing either the possession or conveyance. *5 Every reason must prove that Simpson, and not Durrett, was to run the risk of this injury. The estate was leased for Simpson's benefit, and to him alone his tenants were responsible. There is no similarity between this case and the one relied on in argument, where the vendee is compelled to complete the contract when the buildings were consumed by fire, without the fault of either party. Here the injury must be held to arise, indirectly at least, from the act of the vender, and he ought not, therefore, to be permitted to compel the vendee to bear the loss. Such a case is not like the accidental destruction of the improvements. We will now attend to the third ground of equity arising from the water-works; and defects in the deed tendered by Simpson. Touching the water-pipes. There seems to have arisen between the parties, this controversy on this point, which has been debated in this court. Part of the line of pipes passed through the property of others, and for several years across the public square. On the part of the vendee, it is contended, that the true construction of the agreement, as before recited, is, that Simpson was bound to obtain, secure and convey to Durrett the continued privilege of the line, in the order it was at the date of the contract, over all the intervening ground, between the spring and hotel. Durrett's construction of the agreement. On the other side, it is insisted, that Simpson was, by the stipulation, only to place Durrett in his stead, and possess him of the privilege as then held, and no more, subject to such interruption as might thereafter arise from the holders of the intervening property revoking or terminating their grants, such as they were, to insert the pipes at first. Simpson's construction. Without determining between these two positions, we shall content ourselves with saying, that as the fountain, and a considerable portion of the ground intervening between it and the hotel, belonged to Simpson, the stipulation could not mean less than securing to Durrett, all the privilege then held by Simpson, of drawing the water from the spring and passing it forever, uninterrupted, so far as it passed through the land then held by Simpson himself; and we will then inquire whether Simpson, after the date of the contract and before his tender of a conveyance, had curtailed this privilege by intervening sales and conveyances. Construction of this court. One charge of violation of this stipulation by Simpson, after the date of his contract and before he tendered a conveyance, is, that he took a branch-line to the lot of George Howard, and from that branch another to the lot of William Hopkins, thereby lessening the supply at the hotel. It is in proof that such lines were taken out; for which Howard and Hopkins were to pay, one twenty-five dollars, and the other ten dollars per annum. But these grants were given in word only, without any period of continuance being fixed, and were, therefore-, revocable as other tenancies at will, and could not prejudice the original line, to any extent. Durrett, after his conveyance from Simpson, would, as to these, have stood in the shoes of Simpson, and would have been entitled to the revenue therefrom, or to discontinuance of the grant. Of course this was no disposition of the water which could seriously injure the interest of Durrett. *6 A parol grant of the privilege of a branch line from a principal line of water pipes, from a fountain, creates but a tenancy at will. Such a parol grant does not disable the grantor to execute a previous contract of sale. It is urged in the bill that Simpson had sold to John Williams, and given him a conveyance bond for a small square out of the hotel lot, before his sale to Durrett, and that he had conveyed to Williams without reserve the grounds afterwards, including the line of pipes which passed under a house erected by Williams, which made the line inaccessible, and so that it could not be repaired. This bond to Williams is tendered as a part of the bill, but is not produced; on the contrary a conveyance of record to Williams is produced, made nearly one year before the purchase of Durrett. In that conveyance Simpson passes the ground, reserving only the right of entering for the purpose of removing and taking away the water-pipes which passed through it; but not the right of again inserting them. But this sale to Williams was known at the date of the sale to Durrett; for the conveyance was not only of record but the written contract with Durrett refers to it on its face, and purports to pass to him all the hotel lot, improvements and appurtenances "except a part or piece, the said Simpson had sold to John Williams." This part sold to Williams was a small square, carved ont of the hotel lot itself, covering the line of pipes, which Simpson, in the conveyance to Williams reserved the right of removing. Now it is evident from the inspection of the plat made in this cause, that if the water was discharged from the pipes before it reached the premises of Williams, it would still supply the hotel lot; or that the line could be taken around the premises of Williams and supply the hotel itself. Of course the sale and conveyance to Williams was not a serious interruption of the water, and such as it was, it was known to the parties at the time, and the inconvenience was to be borne by Durrett, and of course as to the sale and conveyance to Williams, he had no right to complain. Objections because of a sale of a part of the ground to Williams, through which the water pipes passed, overruled because it was recited in the contract. The next disposition of water by Simpson which we are to notice is a line extending from the line leading to the hotel, to the lot of M'Gowan and Stockton. This is the same lot which Durrett had conveyed to Simpson in part payment for the hotel estate, and Simpson afterwards sold and conveyed it to M'Gowan and Stockton, having previously run a branch line of water pipes thereto, and in his conveyance to them only reserved half the water to be conveyed to Durrett. This was a disposition of the water in violation of the contract with Durrett and such as Simpson, consistent with his stipulation, ought not to have made. Sale of the right to a branch line from the principal line of water pipes, after a contract to sell the privilege of the water in the state in which it then was, is a violation of the contract. *7 But the last disposition of water, or of his lands through which it passed, without reserving the full privilege for Durrett, is still more serious. After his contract with Durrett he proceeded to sell and convey the spring, which was on an out lot of the town, and the intervening lands which he held between it and the hotel to sundry persons, and the several conveyances to them are produced. Sale of the spring and intervening ground. In all of them he reserves the water privileges and the right of entering and repairing the pipes, except one conveyance to John Anderson of part of the out lot, at a considerable distance from the hotel, dated the 2d of May, 1818, extending across the line of pipes which led from the spring. In this conveyance he makes no reservation, until after the close of the deed, the following memorandum is added: Stipulation in a conveyance that the pipes conveying the water through the lot is to remain undisturbed by the grantee, does not reserve the right in the grantor to enter and repair or insert new pipes. After those in the ground decay the right is at an end. "It is understood that the pipes conveying the water through said lot is to remain undisturbed by the said Anderson." Here is no reservation of a right to enter, and repair, or remove the pipes and insert others. Anderson is prohibited from disturbing the pipes already there, but when they have performed their functions, the right ceases, and no new ones can be inserted; and it is not shewn that there is any way to avoid the premises of Anderson or to come at the water longer than the existence of the pipes already there; and after they are gone the privilege ends. The necessity of water at every habitation is well known; the convenience of it is a great enjoyment. But the value of it to such an establishment as this, on the very spot, where water is scarce as is shewn to be the case in this town, is very great, and is rated at different prices per annum, by different witnesses, from $20 to $100. It must, therefore, have been a great inducement to this contract, and the absence of it must lessen greatly the value of the estate; and the destruction of the privilege between the hour of sale, and that of conveyance and delivery of possession to Durrett must alone furnish him with a good ground for avoiding the contract; and it still becomes stronger by the waste, and injury to the property by Simpson's tenants before noticed. Sale of the ground thro' which water pipes passed to the hotel, the privilege of which vendor of the hotel had contracted to convey with it in the state, it then was made before the conveyance, held a sufficient ground for rescission. The deed tendered to him, only secured to him in express terms the existence of the privilege at its date, and not at the hour of sale which was near two years before that. This privilege had been much curtailed by Simpson in the mean time, and indeed placed in such a situation by his own acts, as precluded him from conveying it. Durrett, therefore, did right in refusing to accept the conveyance, and insisting upon a rescission of the contract. *8 Conveyance in such cases would have to refer to the date of the original contract for the privilege of the water pipes to be granted. That vendor had conveyed a house received in part payment of the larger estate, and was unable to restore it, is an insuperable bar to his bill for a rescission, but not to the application of vendee. But there is an objection urged against setting aside the contract in a court of equity arising from the conveyance of a house and lot by Durrett as part consideration for the hotel. This house and lot as before stated, has since been sold by Simpson and conveyed to M'Gowan and Stockton, and it is contended that as the chancellor can not place the parties in statu quo by restoring this house and lot, he ought to dismiss the bill and leave the parties to their respective remedies at law. If this objection lay in the mouth of Simpson and Durrett the complainant had so disposed of what he had received, as to be unable to restore, it, would be an insuperable bar to setting aside the contract. For he who asks the restoration of the parties to their former situation, ought to be able to comply with his part. But it is the defendant, who is bound to restore, that has disabled himself from restoring what he has received, and now relies on his own act, placing this house and lot beyond his control as a reason why he should keep all. If such a reason was held valid, then no contract could be rescinded even for fraud, where the defendant had parted with what he had gotten, perhaps for the express purpose of preventing a rescission of the contract. Of course this objection can not prevail, and as Simpson can not restore this house and lot he must account for it, at the price stipulated between the parties. The result, upon the whole case, will require an account to be taken between the parties before the controversy can be closed on the return of the cause to the court below; about the principles of which it is necessary we should say something. In this account Simpson's estate must be charged with the price of the house and lot paid by Durrett, as agreed by the parties. And as Durrett retained this house and lot for some time after he was to have delivered the possession of it, he is to have no interest on the price till he actually gave possession; till that time the rent on one side and interest on the other, must be held to extinguish each other. On a rescission in such case, the party who had disposed of the property shall account for the price it was estimated at in the contract with interest from the date he obtained possession. Durrett must be credited with the other payments which he has made with interest thereon. He must also have credit for any lasting and valuable improvements, which he made on the house or premises, as he was, during Patterson' lease, permitted to improve it by an arrangement between the parties. In these improvements must be considered the pavements of its side walks appurtenant to the premises. And as it is insisted that some of these improvements, rather injured than improved the estate, if such injury exists, for these improvements Durrett must receive no compensation, but be charged with such injury. *9 Improvements and rents adjusted. Pavement of sidewalks reckoned improvements. On the day when possession was to have been delivered, Durrett was in possession of part of the house as tenant of Patterson, and it was agreed that he might retain it afterwards without prejudice to the contract on one side, or the rescission of it on the other. Of course Durrett must be charged with the reasonable rent of such part as he continued to occupy after that day, during the time which he continued to hold it. Rents. After the account is thus taken, the contract must be set aside, the injunction be made perpetual, and all securities for the conveyance, or purchase money be surrendered and a decree rendered in favor of that party, who may have a balance due. Decree of rescission. The decree of the court below, must therefore, be reversed with costs, and cause be remanded that such proceedings and decree may be rendered, as herein directed, and such further orders and decree made, as shall not be inconsistent with this opinion, and the principles of equity. Mandate. The counsel for the appellees moved the court for a re-hearing, on the ground the suit had not been regularly revived against the infant heirs of Simpson, and it did not appear their guardian ad litem had undertaken the defence; insisting that, therefore, the mandate should direct farther proceedings, which they shewed in the following: PETITION FOR A RE-HEARING BY JAMES TRIMBLE, ESQ. The counsel for the appellees respectfuly ask the court to review their opinion, and grant a re-hearing of the cause for the following reasons: It will be seen by exploring the record, that the death of Joseph Simpson is not any where formally suggested. The only part from which that event can be inferred, is the order made at the special chancery term, 27th September, 1822, in which the order says that the parties came by their attornies, and by consent, this cause is revived against Ann Simpson and Reuben Rowland, adm'r. and adm'x. of said Joseph Simpson deceased's estate, and William C. Hayden, and Eliza, his wife, late Eliza Simpson, George I. B. Caldwell, and Patsey, his wife, late Patsey Simpson, Maria Simpson, James Simpson, Caroline Simpson, Josiah Simpson, Juliet Simpson and George Simpson, heirs and legal representatives of the said Josiah Simpson, deceased. And James Trimble, Esq., is appointed special guardian ad litem, to answer and defend for the infant heirs as aforesaid, to-wit: all except Eliza, Patsey and Maria. After this order we hear no more of the guardian. There is no bill of reviver, nor is there any answer to Durrett's last amendment to his bill. The special guardian has not answered for the infants, nor does it appear in the record, that he appeared for them, or in any manner took upon himself the office of guardian, or that he even had knowledge of his appointment. The revivor is made without bill or process; but, in place of the regular mode of revivor, the consent of the representatives of the deceased, is substituted; and the greater number of these representatives are infants, and give this consent, according to the most liberal construction, by attorney, and without the protection of a guardian--and, although afterwards a guardian is appointed, he does not take upon him the office, and infants are still without a guardian. *10 This matter is respectfully urged, not as a reason for affirming the decree of the circuit court, but as a reason that this court ought not to order or direct any decree whatever to be rendered against the defendants; but, only to reverse the decree and remand the cause, for new proceedings to be had, to commence by causing a guardian ad litem to appear for the infants, and take upon himself their defence. On the part of the appellees, it is believed, that the cases reported in 1 Mar. 398, and 471, are conclusive upon this point. It is believed, that every step taken in the cause, since the decease of Joseph Simpson, either by or against the defendants, is erroneous, and that no decree ought now to be rendered by this court, that will conclude the defendants, because a part of them are infants, who stand at this moment unprotected by a guardian. For these reasons, a re-hearing is respectfully asked for on the part of the defendants. On consideration, the court overruled the petition; to which effect JANUARY 16, 1826. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED AN ADDITIONAL OPINION OF THE COURT. The manner in which this cause was revived, is relied on in the petition as sufficient to send the cause back for new proceedings, commencing at the point, and to induce this court to refuse a mandate directing a decree to be entered at once. Whether the cause was or was not regularly revived, is a question that did not escape the attention of the court in the first instance. The appellant in his argument, and assignment of errors then relied upon it, to reverse the decree in his favor, as the appellees now do, to prevent a decree against them, and we deem it insufficient to aid either. The cause is revived by consent, and a guardian ad litem is chosen by agreement, and the only question remaining to be inquired into, is the assent of that guardian to his appointment, for the purpose of shewing that he undertook the trust. On this point the evidence is sufficient. The record shews that he was an officer of court, and the counsel engaged in the defence, and more than one agreement facilitating the progress of the cause, and regulating the evidence therein afterwards, is on file, signed by him, proving that he managed the defence in all respects; and the cause was heard without this objection in the court below. It is true, he put in no answer; nor was it necessary, for the ancestor of the infants had answered before his death. There is nothing to prevent a decree ending this controversy, on the return of the cause, especially as it is competent and proper, for the court below to reserve a day to the infant defendants, to shew cause against the decree, after their arrival at full age. Where defendant dies after answer, the suit may be revived against his administrators and infant heirs, by consent, and a guardian ad litem need not answer. The petition for a re-hearing is overruled. Crittenden and Mayes, for appellants; Jas. Trimble and Triplett, for appellees. Ky.App. 1826. Durrett v. Simpson's Representatives 3 T.B.Mon. 517, 19 Ky. 517, 1826 WL 1338 (Ky.), 16 Am.Dec. 115 END OF DOCUMENT
