(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 112,  17 Ky. 112 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1504 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Chambers v. Simpson's Administratrix. Oct. 14, 1824. *1 Practice, Pleading, Statutes, Gaming. APPEAL FROM THE HENRY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Stipulations 363 k 9 363 Stipulations 363k9 k. Entry, filing, or record. Most Cited Cases The parol agreement of counsel to submit pleas as on demurrer, made at one term, where judgment on it was given, may be entered at the succeeding term, at which final judgment is rendered. Appeal and Error 30 k 496 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(A) Matters to Be Shown 30k496 k. Proceedings sustaining judgment or order. Most  Cited Cases An entry showing a plea to be filed is not available in this court;  for, if the plea be not found on record, it will be taken not to exist. Bills and Notes 56 k 485 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k472 Plea, Answer, or Affidavit of Defense 56k485 k. Verification. Most Cited Cases It is not necessary to verify by affidavit a plea that a note was executed on a gaming consideration. Gaming and Lotteries 188 k 223 188 Gaming and Lotteries 188I In General 188k223 k. Collateral agreements;  loans and credit. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 188k19(1)) It is the gaming consideration by the obligee, not by the obligor, that vitiates a note given in payment of a gaming debt. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. To a petition and summons on a note for the direct payment of money, the defendant below, as administratrix pleaded that the note was given for a gaming consideration, in five different forms. The plaintiff objected to these pleas, because they were not verified by oath. The court below, at first deemed the oath necessary, and time was given to produce it. In the meantime, the parties, by consent, submitted the pleas to the court, with an agreement that the court should consider their validity as upon demurrer, not waiving the objection that they were not sworn to. The clerk, at the same time, made an entry of the filing of the pleas, and that there was a demurrer and joinder thereto, and an agreement. At the close of the term, the court returned the papers to the clerk, with a direction to enter the demurrer overruled; which entry was accordingly made, and final judgment was not rendered, but the cause continued in that state until the next term, to fill the time given to produce an affidavit to the pleas. At the next term, no affidavit was made, and the counsel for the plaintiff moved the court to correct the record, by striking out the entry of a demurrer, and overruling thereof, because no demurrer or joinder was actually filed. The court refused to do so. The plaintiff's counsel refused to reply to the pleas, unless they were sworn to, which was refused, the court then not supposing it to be necessary; and the court completed the record by entering final judgment on the demurrer for the defendant, from which the plaintiff below appealed. *2 We do not admire the practice of a court, in taking pleadings into consideration as on demurrer, and of entering a demurrer and joinder, when none are there. (1.) Such a practice, we discover, is sometimes indulged in by the inferior courts, to the frequent embarrassment of this, and even pleas are sometimes found noted, when none exist, and, of course, they are to be ??created by this court as not existing. (1) An entry that a plea is filed, when it is not the fact, will avail nothing in this court; for if the plea be not found on record, it will be taken not to exist--Arg. (2.) If parties are ever indulged in the practice, the court ought generally to show upon the record, that the parties consented thereto, and that their agreement was to stand in all things as a demurrer. (2) The agreement of parties to dispense with the demurrer to pleading, if indulged, ought to be entered on record--Arg. It is, however, unneccessary for us now to decide what would have been the consequence in this court, ??o this demurrer, if no such agreement and no demurr??r had appeared, because the court has finally entered ??n record that there was such an agreement. The consequence of the want of a demurrer or agreement in its stead, not settled. (3.) And as the parties agreed, so they ought to ??tand; for it could not be correct, as the counsel for ??e plaintiff in the court below seems to have suppos??d, for the court, under a private agreement to take ??e pleas and give an inofficial or unrecorded opinion ??ereon. At all events, the court was not bound to do ??, and did right in holding the parties to a demurrer, ??hen they had agreed it should have the effect of one; ??d finally of entering the truth of the case on record. ??ere was, therefore, no error, in refusing to change ?? e record, and the court below did right in extending ?? so far as to tell the whole truth. (3) The parol agreement of counsel, to submit pleas as on demurrer, made at one term, when judgment on it was given, may be entered at the succeeding term, when final judgment is rendered. (4.) Although the court seemed, in the first instance, ?? have supposed that an affidavit to the truth of the ??eas was necessary, yet finally it came to a different ??nclusion, and this conclusion we approve. To have ?? quired the affidavit, would have been in direct con??ct with the decision of this court in the case of Bur??, &c. v.  Emerine, 1 Litt. Rep. 409. It is true, that ??tain pleas which impeach and go into the consider??on of sealed instruments, are required to be sworn ?? by an act of 1815, 1 Dig. L. K. 265; but they are ??h pleas as are admitted under the statute of 1801, 1 ??g. L. K. 257; and it is evident, that the legislature ??ended by the latter statute, to admit pleas which ??e color of consideration, and then impeach and show its entire failure, and which could not be permitted at common law; and that it has and can have no??bearing upon pleas given by particular statutes, such as the acts against gaming and usury. To restrain?? captious proceedings under the statute, and to put sal??utary restraints thereon, whereby delay and injustice?? might ensue, was the design of the statute of 1815?? The affidavit therefore, was wholly unnecessary, and the plaintiff must take the consequences of refusing to reply without it, unless the pleas which the court supported as valid, are invalid. *3 (4) It is not necessary to verify by affidavit, a plea that a note was executed on a gaming consideration. The first plea alleges that the note was given in consideration of money lost by the intestate, and won b?? the plaintiff, at a certain illegal game of cards playe?? by the parties, and for no other consideration. First plea held sufficient. The second states that the note was given in consideration of money lost by the intestate at a certai?? game of cards to which the plaintiff was a party, an?? for no other consideration. Second plea held sufficient. The third states that the note was given "on accoun?? of a gaming consideration, at a certain game ?? cards," at a certain time and place, and to which th?? plaintiff was privy, and of which he had notice, an?? for no other consideration. Third plea. The fourth alleges that the note was executed "f?? and on account of a gaming consideration, at a certa?? unlawful game before that time played by said intestate, of and to which the plaintiff had notice and w?? privy." Fourth plea. The fifth states that "the intestate made and ex??cuted the writing to secure the payment of the sum ?? money therein contained, which was lost by the intestate at an unlawful game of cards by him played, ?? which unlawful play and loss the plaintiff had noti?? and to secure the payment whereof, and for no oth?? consideration whatever, was said writing executed?? Fifth plea. Of the validity of the three last pleas, we enterta?? some doubt, arising from their cautious phraseolo?? in averring that the notes were given for a gami?? consideration, as to the defendant's intestate, and ke??ing out of sight the consideration as to the plaintiff?? The construction and sufficiency of the three last pleas undetermined. (5.) It is possible, that the notes might be who?? founded on a gaming consideration, as to the intesta?? and yet as to the plaintiff, be founded on a differ?? and valid consideration; in which case this court has decided such demands to be recoverable. (5) It is the gaming consideration by the obligee, not to the obligor, that the law respects and makes to vitiate the instrument. It is the consideration given by the obligee or payee of the note, to which the law has respect. If that is vitious, the plaintiff has no right to recover. (6.) But we do not deem it necessary to give any positive opinion on these pleas; because this is a general demurrer to all, and if any one is good, the demurrer ought to have been overruled, and judgment in bar to be rendered, and of the first and second pleas, we apprehend, no doubt can be entertained. (6) On a general demurrer to several pleas, if one be good, judgment must be in bar of the plaintiff's action. The first in terms, declares the sum to be won by the plaintiff of the intestate, and the second, that it was lost by the intestate at a game to which the plaintiff was a party, and for no other consideration. These come fully up to what the act of assembly against gaming requires, and present a good bar to the plaintiff's action. *4 We, therefore, conceive that there is no error in the judgment, and it must be affirmed with costs. Crittenden, for appellant; Logan, for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Chambers v. Simpson's Adm'x 1 T.B.Mon. 112, 17 Ky. 112, 1824 WL 1504 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
