(Cite as: 4 Litt. 253,  14 Ky. 253 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1269 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mason v. Chambers. Oct. 23, 1823. *1 FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. E. SHORTRIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 278(1) 95 Contracts 95V Performance or Breach 95k278 Performance of Conditions 95k278(1) k. Necessity of Performance. Most Cited  Cases Where a contract is entire, and the performance by one party constitutes the whole consideration for the other's performance, and one party is to perform a part first, however small, he will be presumed to have relied on his action to enforce performance on the other side, and so may be sued for performance before the other party has performed. CRITTENDEN for plaintiff; BRECKINRIDGE for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The plaintiff and defendant in error, on the 1st day of May, 1818, entered into articles of agreement, which, omitting its formal parts and recitals, contains the following stipulations, to-wit: Of covenants dependent and otherwise. "That the said Chambers hath this day sold to the said Mason, the tract or parcel of land he now lives on, supposed to contain one hundred and ten acres, be the same more or less, for the price of thirty-five dollars per acre, the payments to be made in the following manner, to-wit: Three hundred dollars to be paid in the month of June, and the balance to be paid the 25th of December next, at which time, I bind myself, my heirs, executors,??&c., to convey said land to the said Mason by a deed of general warranty." This instrument was signed and sealed by each of the parties, and on it Chambers brought his action of covenant, and assigned for breach the non-payment of the first instalment of three hundred dollars in June, and the balance on the 25th of December following, without averring that on the day of the last payment he had fulfilled his part of the contract, or that he was ready and offered to do so. For the want of this averment the defendant below, now plaintiff in error, demurred to the second breach. His demurrer was overruled by the court. He then tendered a plea of payment of the first instalment of the three hundred dollars at the day, and a readiness to pay the last, but that the plaintiff below was not then and there willing and ready to convey according to his contract. This plea was rejected on application for leave to withdraw the demurrer and plea, because it was not an issuable or valid plea. Awrit of inquiry was then awarded, and judgment rendered for the plaintiff below, now defendant in error; to reverse which, this writ of error is prosecuted by Mason. If one party is to do the first act, it is evidence that he intended to rely on his remedy by action, and not to make the performance by the other party the condition of his performance. Where the contract is entire, and the performance on the one side constitutes the whole consideration of the performance of the other, and one side to perform a part first, however small, it is evidence that he meant to rely on his action to enforce performance on the other side. *2 It will be seen by this state of the case, that the only question is, was the plaintiff below bound to perform the simultaneous act of conveying at the time he received the last payment, or is the stipulation to convey independent of the stipulation to pay the money? The rules by which covenants are construed, are so well settled in modern authorities, that it is unnecessary to repeat them. Covenants are classed by the books into three kinds: First, those which are independent, and where each or either party may sustain an action for a breach, without any performance on his part; secondly, depending or containing a precedent condition to be performed by one party, before he can have any action, although for his failure the other party may have his, without any performance; and thirdly, covenants which require a simultaneous performance of each party at the same moment, without which neither can sustain an action. However simple this classification may appear, yet it is often difficult to ascertain to which class a covenant belongs. To do this, courts resort to the words and intentions of the parties. To the last class or the second, this covenant must belong, as there is no foundation for supposing it belongs to the first. The plaintiff in error contends that it belongs to the third, and the defendant to the first or second. Where parties form covenants of the first class, they trust the remedy that the law gives them by action on the covenant as their only security, and do not reserve their own performance within their own power, as the security to which they trust. In the last case, neither trusts to the action on the covenant alone, but reserves his own property as a security till he receives or has offered to him what the other party is to do or pay. And if either means to use the action on the covenant, he must tender his own performance at the proper time and require the fulfilment of the other side. Hence, where it is not expressed, it is often difficult to find out the intention, as to which security the parties meant to rest upon. For this purpose it has been often said, that if one side is to do the first act, it is evidence that he intended to rely on his action, and not trust the right of retention. We also conceive it a sound general rule, that where the contract is entire, and the performance of one side, constitutes the whole consideration of the performance on the other, if one side is to perform a small part first, however small, it is evidence that he meant to waive the security of retaining his own performance and rest upon his action. Here, Mason was first to pay three hundred dollars, part of the price, long before he was to receive any conveyance. This evinces that he meant to leave in favor of the other side a condition precedent, and to abandon the benefits of a covenant requiring simultaneous acts. If the whole price had been reserved by the plaintiff in error till the hour of conveyance, and the other had not been prepared, then the contract, on a verdict rendered in favor of Mason, would have been entirely dissolved as to him, and no injustice would be done; the parties would remain in statu quo. But if a verdict should pass for him now on the last breach, after he has performed, or may be compelled to perform the first stipulation, the contract would be left in a mangled situation, in part dissolved and in part in force. In such a case, it is better for a court of law to reject a defence, which would only entangle and embarrass, rather than settle the whole controversy, and leave to the chancellor to redress the plaintiff in error, if he is in danger of getting no title after he pays his money. *3 It is true, it is competent for parties to stipulate the performance of divers acts on each side, all making but one bargain, and that the performance on each side may run parallel with the other, in which case all may be and generally are dependent. They may also make part of the stipulations dependent and part otherwise, and in such case no action could be maintained on those which were dependent, without tender of counter performance, while without such tender the action would lie for a breach of other stipulations. Such is contended to be the situation of the present instrument. To make it so, the intention ought to be more clear. The only circumstance relied on, is that the payment of the last instalment and the conveyance were to be made at the same time. But this is rebutted by the contract being an entire one, and the plaintiff in error having agreed to pay the first instalment, without any act to be done on the part of the defendant previous to or at the same moment; and no words expressly making these last stipulations dependent, are used, or any from which such dependence can be necessarily implied. A majority of the court, the Chief Justice dissenting, are of opinion that the stipulation for the last payment is not dependent, and the judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Mason v. Chambers 4 Litt. 253, 14 Ky. 253, 1823 WL 1269 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
