(Cite as: 5 Litt. 17,  15 Ky. 17 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1356 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Sweets' Heirs, &c. v. Biggs and Craig. Apr. 7, 1824. *1 FROM THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. ELI SHORTRIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 75(1) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k75 Application and Proceedings Thereon 2k75(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases It is erroneous to revive a cause and proceed to a decree where process has not been served. Injunction 212 k 1524 212 Injunction 212V Actions and Proceedings 212V(B) Parties 212k1524 k. Necessary and indispensible parties. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 212k114(1)) To a bill enjoining the collection of the purchase money agreed to be paid for land, though the land was sold by an agent, who took a bond to himself, the principal is an indispensable party. TRIPLETT for plaintiffs; no attorney for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. The ancestor of the present defendants in error, bought of John Craig, by the agency of Lewis Craig his attorney in fact, sundry lots in the town of Greensburg, and received a conveyance executed by said Lewis, as attorney in fact for said John, and gave his note for the purchase money to Lewis Craig in his own name, who assigned it away, and after some other mesne assignments, it was assigned to Andrew Biggs, one of the plaintiffs in error, who brought suit thereon and recovered judgment. To be relieved against this judgment, Sweets filed this bill with injunction, alleging that although the land was once the property of John Craig, there had been sundry conveyances by and through said John, and that James Hughes and Robert Johnson now claimed the land, and had a suit pending for the same in the same court, in which he believed they would recover; to the record of which suit, he refers as part of his bill. Biggs, the assignee, admitted the assignment, and admits he understood that Sweets had purchased the lots, and denies any knowledge of the title. Lewis Craig answered, and shows a patent to John Craig and a power of attorney to himself; states nothing about the claim of Hughes and Johnson's heirs, and offers to rescind the contract, though he contends the title was clear. John Craig was not made a party. The court below rendered an interlocutory decree, rescinding the contract, and directing an account of rents, profits and improvements to be taken. Before the final decree, Sweets died and his heirs and administrators filed a bill of revivor, on which no process was awarded, and no notice given to the defendants, and the court proceeded to revive the suit and decreed the land to be conveyed to Lewis Craig, and that he should pay for a balance of improvements reported against him, and that the injunction, as to Biggs, should be made perpetual. To reverse this decree, Biggs and Craig have prosecuted this writ of error. *2 It is error to proceed to a decree on a bill of revivor without process on the bill of revivor executed. The vender of land must be made a party to a bill in chancery enjoining the purchase money for defect of title, notwithstanding the sale was made by an agent, the agent took the bond for the purchase money payable to himself, and is made a party. It was clearly erroneous to revive the cause and proceed to a decree, until process on the bill of revivor was served on the defendants below; and for this cause the decree is reversible. But there is another defect in the proceedings of the complainant. It could not be right to decree the estate to Lewis Craig, the agent, and not John, to whom it was said to belong. He being the principal, was an indispensable party, however, the note for the payment was given, and the estate, if restored, must be restored to him. For the want of John Craig as a party, if living, or his legal representatives, if dead, the party complaining was entitled to no decree. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions there to dismiss the bill with costs, and without prejudice to any other suit for the same cause, unless the complainants shall amend their bill, and bring the proper parties before the court in a reasonable time. Ky.App. 1824. Sweets' Heirs v. Biggs 5 Litt. 17, 15 Ky. 17, 1824 WL 1356 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
