(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 224,  10 Ky. 224 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1039 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Trustees of Lexington v. M'Connell's Heirs. Apr. 5, 1821. *1 AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Towns 381 k 64 381 Towns 381VI Actions 381k64 k. Capacity to sue or be sued in general. Most Cited  Cases The trustees of the town of L., not being incorporated, should be named individually in every suit brought against them. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 2538 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101IX Corporate Powers and Liabilities 101IX(F) Civil Actions 101k2538 k. Parties. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 101k506) Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 2563 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101IX Corporate Powers and Liabilities 101IX(F) Civil Actions 101k2561 Pleading 101k2563 k. Requisites and sufficiency in general. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 101k506) Where the trustees of a corporation are sued, they must be severally named. Costs 102 k 94 102 Costs 102III Persons Liable 102k92 Parties of Record 102k94 k. Nominal and unnecessary parties. Most Cited  Cases On a bill for a conveyance of land against the trustees of A., averring that said trustees falsely alleged that B. claimed the land, it was held that the false allegation was no ground for making B. a party, and that a decree against him for costs was erroneous. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The heirs of William M'Connell brought their bill in the court below, alleging that their ancestor was one of the original settlers in Lexington. That by the act of the Virginia legislature establishing said town, each of the settlers in the village was allowed a lot or lots, to be first conveyed to them before the residue was disposed of by the trustees. That to their ancestor was assigned in lot No. 79, by the trustees, or settlers, and that no conveyance had been made either to their ancestor or themselves and that on application to the trustees of Lexington, they had refused to convey, alleging "falsely" that a certain Sally Williams, Lewis Saunders and John Hull claimed the lot. They then pray that the "trustees of Lexington," without naming them, Sally Williams, Lewis Saunders and John Hull may be made defendants, and that a conveyance may be granted, and general relief. The process was returned, executed on all except Sally Williams. After the cause had stood upon the docket a considerable time, it was discontinued as to Sally Williams, the bill taken pro confesso against others--the trustees were decreed to convey, and costs were decreed generally against all the defendants. The trustees having refused to convey, a commissioner was appointed, who executed a conveyance, and a writ of habere facias possessionem was directed. To reverse this decree, this writ of error is prosecuted. As to the decree for costs against Saunders and Hull, we do not perceive the principles on which it can be supported. The trustees having "falsely" represented that Saunders, Hull and Sally Williams claimed the lot, could furnish no proper grounds for involving them in the contest by making them defendants, much less to decree costs against them on account of the "false" representations of others. *2 As to the trustees of Lexington, this decree is equally untenable. They are not named, or in any manner individualized in the bill or any of the proceedings. They did not appear or answer. The bill makes them defendants by the name of "the trustees of Lexington," and the process gives no other description. The trustees wear a fiduciary or political character, given them by the acts of assembly, and for not doing what they are bound to do in this character, they are amenable to the process of law. But we know of no rule, which will allow of their being sued without being named. A corporation can sue or be sued by its corporate name, without otherwise designating either the officers or individuals composing the body. But the trustees of Lexington, it will be seen by an inspection of the acts of assembly regulating that town, are not incorporated. They have no corporate name, by which they can sue or be sued; and such a name is essential to the existence of a corporation. They have no power to make, adopt, alter or change a common seal, by which their acts are to be evidenced by law, and they want many other incidents of a corporate body. They therefore ought to be named individually in every suit brought by and against them, before a decree ought to be made against them. This not being done in the present case, and we not being able to discover any rule by which this can be dispensed with; and the decree having been rendered by default, it must be reversed with costs, and the possession restored by awarding restitution in the court below, and the cause reinstated on the docket, with directions there to dismiss the bill without prejudice, unless the complainants shall, in a reasonable time, so amend their bill, as to bring before the court all the proper parties concerned in interest, so that the controversy may be fairly determined. A corporation may be sued in their corporate capacity and need not be named individually, but in a suit against the trustees they must be severally named. Ky.App. 1821. Trustees of Lexington v. McConnell's Heirs 3 A.K.Marsh. 224, 10 Ky. 224, 1821 WL 1039 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
