(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 505,  10 Ky. 505 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1152 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Bank of Frankfort v. Markley. Jun. 9, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 416 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k411 Sufficiency of Notice of Nonpayment and of Protest 56k416 k. Time. Most Cited Cases Where the indorser lives in the same place where the note is payable, notice of protest given him on either the same day the demand is made or the next day is sufficient. Bills and Notes 56 k 416 56 Bills and Notes 56IX Presentment, Demand, Notice, and Protest 56k411 Sufficiency of Notice of Nonpayment and of Protest 56k416 k. Time. Most Cited Cases Where a note, discounted by a bank, is protested for nonpayment on the last day of grace, notice of such protest given to indorsers on the next day is within a reasonable time, and sufficient to fix their liability, though they reside in the same town in which the bank is located. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: The sole question worthy of notice in this case, is, whether, in the case of a note negotiated with, and discounted by, the bank, and thereby raised to the dignity of a foreign bill of exchange, and protested for non-payment on the last day of grace, the notice of protest ought to be given to the endorsers on the same day of the protest, where the parties lived in the same town where the bank is located; or whether notice served on the next ensuing day, is sufficient and reasonable. The notice in this case having been given on the next day, the point was reserved for the decision of the court, and the verdict taken subject to that decision. The court decided in favor of the endorsers of the note and rendered judgment for them accordingly. From which decision the bank has appealed. Such a notice has already been decided by this court to be sufficient, in the case of Noble v. Bank of Kentucky, at the present term, and the reasons there urged need not be here repeated. The court below ought therefore to have rendered judgment for the plaintiffs below. Notice of the protest of a note, negotiated in bank, is good, if given the day after the protest, though the parties may reside in the same town where the bank is located. The judgment must be reversed with costs and the cause remanded, with directions to render judgment for the plaintiffs in that court. Ky.App. 1821. Bank of Frankfort v. Markley 3 A.K.Marsh. 505, 10 Ky. 505, 1821 WL 1152 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
