(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 368,  21 Ky. 368 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1566 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Seay's Heirs v. Walton's Devisees. Jul. 6, 1827. *1 Entries. Surveys. Misnomers. Notoriety. Evidence. Construction of Depositions. ERROR TO THE WASHINGTON CIRCUIT; WILLIAM L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases To sustain a call for a survey by a name different from the record, the proof must be clear and satisfactory, not only as to the name, but as to the actual position and notoriety of such survey. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. The complainants, to be relieved against an adverse elder grant, set up the following entry, in the name of their ancestor: "July 17, 1781. Jacob Seay enters 1,000 acres, upon a treasury warrant, on the waters of Hardin's creek, joining the lands of Thomas Prather on the north, beginning on Prather's line, 120 poles from his corner in Clough Overton's line, and then running square with his line 400 poles, and to extend west, across Hardin's creek, for quantity, along Prather's line." Jacob Seay's entry. It is evident that to ascertain the position of this entry, it is necessary to show the true position of Thomas Prather's and Clough Overton's claims, and show their validity. Evidence offered to prove a survey, called for in the entry, had been in fact made on the ground by another surveyor, before the date of the certificate recorded. There is no attempt to do this by supporting their entries; nor indeed is there any entry or survey in the name of Clough Overton filed. An entry in the name of Prather is filed, but there is no proof identifying its calls, or shewing that they are correct and could have been found on reasonable enquiry. To supply this, two surveys are filed, in the name of Prather, which are dated on the 4th September, 1781, about two months after the entry of Seay was made. To remedy this defect, proof is made by two witnesses, that Thomas Prather had two surveys made four or five days before the entry of Seay, nearly on the same ground covered by the present surveys, and that the surveyor who made them was killed by the savages before he got home, and thus the field notes were lost, and the two last surveys now exhibited had consequently to be made afterwards on the same plan, and without any variation on the line, which Seay calls to adjoin. To supply the defect of a claim, in the name of Clough Overton, a patent is filed in the name of Edward Bullock for 2,000 acres, reciting a survey made in the name of said Bullock, on the 27th October, 1780, about eight months before the entry of Seay was made, and proof is made by the same two witnesses, that this survey in the name of Edward Bullock, went by the name of Clough Overton. Evidence that the survey in the name of Bullock was called Overton's as in the entry. It must strike every one that the parol evidence should be strong and clear to make up these defects or mistaken calls of the entry of Seay before it can be established. *2 It is true, a private or unrecorded survey in the name of Prather, might answer as a locative call; but not only the name, but the actual position of such a survey must be notoriously known to those conversant in the vicinity of the object, before it can sustain an entry. Private unrecorded survey, notorious at the time, both as to its name and position, may answer the calls of an entry. Likewise, the proof ought to be clear and satisfactory, that the survey of Clough Overton, was notoriously known, and that its position was likewise familiar to a majority of those conversant in the neighborhood, before that the entry of Seay could be attached to the survey of Bullock, by Clough Overton's name. The record name is against such evidence; of course the necessity is doubled for proof, strong and so decisive as to demand unhesitating belief. Proof to sustain the call for a survey, by a name different from the record, must be entirely full. Upon both these points, the testimony is deficient. Bullock's survey is not shown to have acquired such a degree of notoriety by Overton's name, as to preclude all doubt in the mind of a subsequent locator, whether Bullock's survey was intended, especially, while the record told him that it was not the survey called for. But if in this we should be mistaken, the objection to the want of notoriety sufficient in Prather's surveys, at the date of Seay's entry, is conclusive against this entry. That a private survey, the field notes of which were in the pockets of the surveyor, and he killed immediately, should, in not more than five days, become notorious to a majority of those conversant in the vicinity, is so near an impossible, and such a very improbable, event, that it can not be easily admitted, unless it was accounted for by extraordinary circumstances. It is against the facts, occurences and current of events of that day. Many, and even a majority, might be informed that such a survey was made, and as the survey approached near to a station then existing, it is possible that the fact, that such surveys had been executed in the neighborhood, might have been communicated to most of the inhabitants of that station. But it is entirely improbable that a majority were acquainted with, or could have pointed out the spot where the greatest portion of the land lay, which was necessary to be known, and indeed, when there were no field notes to be had, as a guide to lead to the corners and exhibit the courses and lengths of the lines, it certainly would be necessary that a majority of those conversant in the neighborhood should be able to point where some of the lines and corners could be found, and that they could then be easily traced. Evidence offered to prove the notoriety of the survey called for, held insufficient. It is true, the two witnesses who speak on these subjects, do depose that these surveys were notorious when Seay's entry was made. But without charging them with intending to depose to facts untruly, we are led to believe that they were mistaken in the meaning of the words "notorious" and "notoriety," as used in the decisions of our courts touching entries, and that instead of intending to say that these surveys were well known to a majority of all those conversant in the neighborhood, they intended to communicate the idea, that these surveys were notorious to themselves; a mistake not unfrequent among unlettered men, who have not been in the habit of fixing a precise and definite meaning to the terms which they employ, in communicating their ideas. Nothing remarkable attended the execution of these surveys. Not more attended on making them than were necessary to perform the duty. These two witnesses belonged to that party, and no doubt acquired and retained an accurate knowledge of the places where these lines and corners were situated, and hence, without attending to the meaning of the expression, when put to them by interrogatories, they allege that they were notorious, and well known. We are fortified in this conclusion by attending to the whole of each deposition, and thus extracting therefrom the meaning of the deponents. Several expressions, which we need not enumerate, employed by them, conduce to show that such was the meaning which they intended to convey. *3 Words notorious and notoriety, supposed to be used by the witness in an improper sense, and so their depositions construed. It therefore follows, that the court below was correct in deciding this entry invalid, and this conclusion renders it unnecessary that we should go into the various questions made and debated in the cause, among which is the effect of lapse of time. For, it is unnecessary that we should determine whether this entry is lost by the laches of its owner, when it has no validity, to be impaired by delay. Decree affirmed with costs. CHIEF JUSTICE BIBB NOT CONCURRING WITH THE MAJORITY OF THE COURT, IN THEIR GROUNDS OF THE DECREE, REMARKED AS FOLLOWS: Although I do not concur with the majority of the court, that the entry was originally invalid; yet I concur in the decree dismissing the bill, although the proof as to the notoriety of Bullock's survey, by the name of Overton, and of the notoriety of the survey of Prather at the date of Seay's entry, is not deposed to by many witnesses, yet, their testimony is unimpeached, and the proximity of the land to the station, and the residence of some of those attendant on the survey are at the station, renders it very probable that it had become notorious at the station, as deposed by the two witnesses; but I admit the entry comes very near the dividing line between good and bad. Upon the question of limitation, I am satisfied that no decree ought to be rendered for complainant; but that he is barred by length of time. But as that is a very important question, and as the majority of the court have come to a conclusion, which renders a decision on this point unnecessary at this time, I shall not enter into a discussion of the bar by length of time, but leave it for a future occasion. Haggin and Loughborough, for plaintiffs; Pope, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Seay's Heirs v. Walton's Devisees 5 T.B.Mon. 368, 21 Ky. 368, 1827 WL 1566 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
