(Cite as: 5 T.B.Mon. 404,  21 Ky. 404 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1578 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Stevens v. Wallace. Oct. 3, 1827. *1 Executors. Replevin Bonds. Escrow. APPEAL FROM THE OHIO CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 158(2) 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k158 Stay of Execution 161k158(2) k. Bond or Other Security. Most Cited  Cases Unless all the defendants in an execution sign the replevin bond, the bond will be quashed. Principal and Surety 309 k 20 309 Principal and Surety 309I Creation and Existence of Relation 309I(A) Between Individuals 309k18 Execution of Written Instruments 309k20 k. By Principal. Most Cited  Cases The obligors in a replevin bond cannot complain that a part of the defendants in the bond did not unite in its execution. Deposits and Escrows 122A k 11 122A Deposits and Escrows 122AII Conditional Deposits or Escrows 122Ak11 k. Nature and Requisites in General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 153k1  Escrows) As against the sheriff's return, it cannot be presumed, because a replevin bond was signed by a part only of all the persons named in the penal part of it, that they delivered it as an escrow. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is a motion to quash a replevin bond, which was overruled in the court below, and from that decision an appeal is prayed. Motion by the obligors to quash a replevin bond because all the defendants in the execution had not united in it. The only ground relied on worth notice, is, that there were several defendants in the original execution, all of whom, except one, signed the bond, together with their sureties, and this motion is made by the obligors in the bond, relying on the face of the proceedings, because that one of the original defendants was omitted. It has been the construction of this court, that the statute which permits a replevin, does not authorize a sheriff to take a replevin bond, from one or more of the defendants in an execution, omitting others. The act did not intend to lessen a plaintiff's security for his debt, or to subject hib to many replevin bonds, or an exoneration of those omitted. Plaintiff may quash a replevin bond because all the defendants in the execution had not united in it--replevin bond, can But while this is admitted as a valid objection to a replevin bond, it only lies in the mouth of a plaintiff or obligee. His rights alone are prejudiced thereby. The defendant, or defendants, who have had the benefit of a replevin, omitting their co-defendants, as well as their surety, who has united with, and confided in them alone, can not complain of it. It was held in  Hard. 188, that one of several defendants not uniting in a replevin bond furnishes no valid objection to it; it is also held in the same book, page 4, that the omission of one defendant is fatal. The decisions, as heretofore observed by this court, are reconcilable. In one case the motion was made by a plaintiff, in the other by a defendant. *2 But-- The obligors in a replevin bond can not complain that a part of the defendants in the replevin bond did not unite in its execution. It has been insisted at bar, that this bond is different from the case in Hardin, where the objection was overruled, because in the penal part, it names the omitted defendant, and in the condition recites that it was his property, which was executed and restored on his prayer with that of the rest. This may tend to show that the sheriff intended to include him, and so prepared his bond. But it can not be inferred from this circumstance alone, that the bond was incomplete, and delivered as an escrow only, until the omitted defendant should sign it. That is a fact which requires proof and can not be inferred from the face of the bond. From the sheriff's return, we are bound to infer that the sureties engaged for the principals whose names were subscribed to the bond, and were satisfied with that engagement, and if so, it would be wrong to compel the plaintiff in the bond to lose the undertaking of the whole because he did not obtain the obligation of another, to which he was entitled. It can not be presumed from the fact of all the defendants in the execution being named in the penal part of the replevin bond, signed by part only, that they delivered it as an escrow. Such an allegation must be proved--it can not be presumed against the sheriff's return. The judgment is affirmed with costs. M'Henry, for appellant. Ky.App. 1827. Stevens v. Wallace 5 T.B.Mon. 404, 21 Ky. 404, 1827 WL 1578 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
