(Cite as: 4 Litt. 411,  14 Ky. 411 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1304 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rust v. Larue, &c. Fall Term, 1823. *1 FROM THE HARDIN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. PAUL I. BOOKER SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Attorney and Client 45 k 130 45 Attorney and Client 45IV Compensation 45k130 k. Right to Compensation in General. Most Cited Cases Where, from the client's insolvency, he has no remedy against him, equity will decree a reasonable compensation in money from the property recovered. Attorney and Client 45 k 135 45 Attorney and Client 45IV Compensation 45k135 k. Performance of Services. Most Cited Cases Where a counsel has prepared a cause, but is prevented from arguing it, and has procured other counsel to argue the cause, and the suit terminated successfully, he will be held to have performed his duty. Attorney and Client 45 k 143 45 Attorney and Client 45IV Compensation 45k142 Contracts for Compensation 45k143 k. Making, Requisites, and Validity. Most Cited  Cases The contract made with an attorney for his retainer in the first instance is not subject to such judicial scrutiny as are subsequent contracts between the attorney and his client, which inure to the benefit of the attorney. Attorney and Client 45 k 147 45 Attorney and Client 45IV Compensation 45k146 Contingent Fees 45k147 k. Requisites and Validity of Contract. Most Cited  Cases Where an attorney agreed to conduct a suit for the recovery of money and certain slaves, and in case of success to receive one-third of the amount recovered, or the value of the slaves, and a recovery is doubtful, and only obtained after protracted litigation, the amount so agreed on is not so large as to be unconscionable. Attorney and Client 45 k 148(1) 45 Attorney and Client 45IV Compensation 45k146 Contingent Fees 45k148 Construction and Operation of Contract 45k148(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases An attorney does not forfeit his right to compensation for his services because he has made a champertous contract. Champerty and Maintenance 74 k 1 74 Champerty and Maintenance 74k1 k. Nature and Elements in General. Most Cited Cases Champerty is a common-law offense, being the unlawful maintenance of a suit in consideration of some bargain to have some part of the thing in dispute, or some profit out of it. Champerty and Maintenance 74 k 1 74 Champerty and Maintenance 74k1 k. Nature and Elements in General. Most Cited Cases It is not essential to the offense of champerty that there be a suit commenced at the time the agreement is made. Champerty and Maintenance 74 k 5(1) 74 Champerty and Maintenance 74k5 Contracts and Transactions with Attorneys 74k5(1) k. Validity of Contract in General. Most Cited Cases A contract between an attorney and client that the attorney shall have as fee part of the thing recovered is in violation of the common law, and void. Champerty and Maintenance 74 k 5(8) 74 Champerty and Maintenance 74k5 Contracts and Transactions with Attorneys 74k5(8) k. Operation and Effect. Most Cited Cases Contracts tainted by champerty or maintenance will not be enforced in equity, either in favor of the counsel or his assignee. Champerty and Maintenance 74 k 5(8) 74 Champerty and Maintenance 74k5 Contracts and Transactions with Attorneys 74k5(8) k. Operation and Effect. Most Cited Cases While an agreement whereby an attorney agrees to prosecute a suit for a contingent fee of one-third the amount of damages or property recovered is champertous, and no action can be maintained thereon, yet the attorney is not thereby precluded from recovering for services rendered and disbursements made, in a suit at law against the client. CRITTENDEN for Rust; HAGGIN and B. HARDIN for Larue. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Rust, the present appellant, filed his bill against Larue, the appellee, for the purpose of redeeming some slaves and other articles held by Larue as a pledge. The court below sustained the claim of redemption, and on an appeal to this court, the same right was sustained; but the cause was reversed for some errors in the details of the decree, at the spring term 1817, in the report of which a full history of the transaction is given. After the cause was returned to that court, and commissioners were appointed to take an account of the money due, the hire of the slaves and costs of the maintenance of young and infirm, Larue obtained leave and filed a supplementary answer, alleging that Rust had at the commencement of the suit, employed Benjamin Hardin, Esq., as his counsel, and by a written contract, had engaged to give him, in case of success, one-third of all the slaves or money that might be recovered, as a compensation for his services, which Hardin had performed; and that he had purchased the contract from Hardin for a valuable consideration, since the rendition of the former decree of this court; and he exhibited the contract and the transfer thereof, and made Hardin and Rust defendants to this answer as a cross bill, and prayed that after the account was taken and settled, he might be permitted to retain one-third of the recovery in his hands, in satisfaction of this contract. Of contracts made with counsel, and their validity. The employment of counsel implies a trust and confidence on the part of the client, which the counsel will not be adjudged to have fulfilled, by employing other counsel to do it for him. The preparation of a chancery cause is the most important, and the argument of it in the inferior court among the least important duties of counsel. To this Rust answered, admitted the contract with Hardin, and alleges that he was so poor when he made it, that he had to give it for the purpose of obtaining counsel for a contingent fee, as one hundred dollars was charged by other counsel to whom he had spoken; but he alleges that Hardin abandoned the cause in the court below, and at the trial was absent in congress, and he had to sell his interest in the suit to his sons, for the purpose of raising money to carry it on, and then had to pay another counsel fifty dollars to argue the cause; that after he had obtained the decree, his adversary had appealed; that by the contract with Hardin, he was to follow it through all the courts to which it went, and was to appear in the court of appeals for him, but did not appear; that he met with Hardin at Frankfort, during the term of that court at which the cause was tried, before it came on, and applied to him to stay and argue the cause; but Hardin refused and would have nothing further to do with it, and left this state, on his way to congress, before the cause was reached, and he had to employ other counsel, for large fees, and that he had never recognized Hardin as his counsel afterwards. He alleges that he is willing to pay Hardin a liberal compensation for his services; but resists the dividing of what was recovered, and contends that it is unreasonable and ungenerous to ask it. To this response he makes Hardin a defendant, as well as Larue. *3 Where the counsel has prepared the cause in the inferior court and has been prevented from arguing it there, but has paid the counsel selected by his client in his absence, his full fee for arguing it, and the cause has terminated successfully, the counsel will be adjudged to have fully performed his duty. Hardin answered, admitting the transfer of his contract to Larue, and denying that he ever engaged to pursue the cause through this court, in which he then had never attempted to practice, and avers that his undertaking was confined to the court below, and that there he had wholly conducted the cause, and had extended his services to taking depositions, and other things not within the purview of his duty as counsellor or solicitor in the cause, until the whole preparation was completed. He denies that he ever abandoned the cause, and alleges that the only color to such an allegation was, that Rust was imprudent in talking about the suit during its pendency, and he was afraid that, as the case rested much on parol testimony, Rust would, by his idle talk, destroy the suit, as he was aware that the opposing party was watching the conversation of Rust, to obtain from him some confession; and to prevent this, he had threatened Rust, if he did not quit his chattering about the cause, he, Hardin, would abandon it; but never did so, as he made the menace to restrain Rust and for his benefit. He admits that he met with Rust in Frankfort, during a recess of this court, at the term when the cause was tried, and that Rust proposed his staying for the purpose of arguing the cause, and that he refused to do it, reminding Rust that his contract did nor compel him to do so, and that his official duties in congress then required his attention there, so that he could not, and did not stay. He admits his absence when the cause was first tried in the court below; but avers that the cause was fully prepared, and that he had engaged Charles A. Wickliffe, Esq., a professional gentleman of acknowledged talents, to argue the cause in his stead; but Mr. Wickliffe was prevented from attending that court by sickness; that afterwards, discovering that Rust has employed other counsel, he immediately took up and discharged the note for forty dollars, given as a fee, and offered to pay Rust the remaining ten, which had been paid; but Rust refused to receive it. He exhibits this note in court, and also the ten dollars, to be delivered to Rust. He avers that Rust brought to him the opinion of the appellate court, which he had caused to be entered and the necessary orders made to complete the cause, and he afterwards, on the application of Rust, or son, wrote a notice of a meeting of the commissioners to take the account, and attended on the day; but the attendance of the commissioners was not procured by Rust; and that, from that time, Rust, through some advice he had received, first conceived the intention of defrauding him out of his contract, and procured other counsel; but he nevertheless obtained a final decree. *4 Champerty and maintenance are offences at common law, as well as by statute, and contracts between client and counsel, of that character, will not be decreed in equity, either in favor of the counsel or his assignee. Even if they were not void at law, equity ought not to decree their specific execution; because, being forbidden by law, they are against the policy of the law. The court below first decreed to Rust two-thirds of the slaves, and to pay the two-thirds of the mortgage money due, and retained the cause, as to the remaining third, to abide the contest now raised between Hardin, Rust and Larue; and finally, on the hearing of that controversy, decreed in favor of Larue, that he should retain the remaining third in discharge of the contract with Hardin. From this decree Rust has appealed. It is now contended for the appellant, that after the cause had progressed through the court, and a decree was here directed in the court below, the attitude of the parties could not be altered, and that it was incompetent for Larue to introduce or set up any claim which might prevent him from restoring the slaves. Whether a bill of review will lie to a decree directed by this court, it is unnecessary now to enquire, as the answer of Larue, filed after the return of the cause from this court does not seek to review or change the decree. That Larue could not set up any claim calculated to defeat the decree against him in whole or in part, which he might have set up before the final hearing, is readily admitted; but his answer now under consideration is not of this character. It yields to the principles of the decree as settled by this court, and is in affirmance of them, and claims the one-third as a purchaser of the benefit of it. Although this answer is styled by the writer, an amended answer, yet it is not entitled to that name. It is purely supplemental, and alleges facts which have occurred since the decree, and shows that according to the principles of the decree, by subsequent events, he is entitled to one third. Suppose that Larue had purchased out the whole decree from Rust himself, or had by operation of law become entitled to the slaves, could it be contended that Rust must still go on and obtain the decree, and take from him the estate? We conceive not; and we perceive no impropriety, according to the settled rules which govern courts of equity, in permitting Larue to set up the matter alleged, for the purpose of retaining the slaves in his own hands, if his claim is otherwise good. We will then proceed to examine the facts set up by the defense of Rust. The writing between Rust and Hardin is signed by Rust alone, and contains the stipulations on his part in full; but barely recites, that "whereas he had employed B. Hardin to bring a suit in chancery for him, in the Hardin circuit court, against Larue," &c. and does not set forth the extent of Hardin's engagement; or, if it does, it evidently did not compel him to pursue the cause in this court. One witness is produced to prove what his undertaking was. His deposition is taken twice, and in neither is he asked the question, whether there was any explicit engagement to pursue the cause to the appellate court; but in both he says, "he thinks Hardin was to attend throughout the whole course of law." Whether this thinking, is only an inference, or an awkward mode of stating the fact, the testimony is quite too weak, according to a well settled rule, to overturn the positive denial of Hardin's answer in direct response to the charge of his adversary. Of course, the contract must be taken not to extend to the prosecution of the cause in this court, and any objection to the performance if the contract, on account of Hardin's not pursuing the cause, must be unavailing. *5 The allegation that Hardin abandoned the cause in the court below, is likewise not supported by proof. The evidence adduced on that point agrees with the answer of Hardin, that he threatened to do so, if Rust would not leave off his imprudent conversations and confessions. Besides, the recognition of Hardin as the counsel, long afterwards, by placing the opinion of the appellate court in his hands, to procure a decree in conformity with it, and procuring him to write a notice for the meeting of the commissioners, strongly conduces to show that both the preceding objections were after-thoughts, and not at first intended. The last objection relied on, is Hardin's absence in the court below, at the first argument. It is shown that he had provided an able substitute, who was prevented from attendance, by sickness, and that he did discharge the note given to the one employed, and has produced in court the ten dollars paid in part of the fee. It is contended, notwithstanding this proof, that the engagement on the part of Rust was based on a personal trust and confidence in the talents of Hardin, which could not be supplied by substitution. It cannot be denied that engagements with counsel are of that nature, and can not be supplied or fulfilled by any thing but personal service. It, however, clearly appears that the cause, in its commencement, preparation and management until its final readiness for trial, was conducted by Hardin, and that this is the most important duty of counsel to the client in a chancery cause, is well known to every one who possesses any knowledge of the preparation of causes, and the argument in court is the least important duty; and when we consider that Hardin had provided for this, and his provision failed through sickness, and that he has discharged the fee of the one selected by the appellant himself for that purpose, we conceive no real injury can have resulted to the appellant, who gained all he claimed, and has lost nothing, and that this ought not to be made a valid objection to a fulfillment of the contract. It is further urged on the part of the appellant, that the fee is enormous and unconscientious, and therefore ought not to be enforced by the chancellor. To this we answer, that the prospect of success was very doubtful, and so proved in the end, and that Hardin risked all his services in a doubtful cause, which has remained so long in contest, as to rise much in value, and we cannot say, as the compensation was wholly contingent, that it is too enormous to preclude the aid of a chancellor. It is finally contended, that the contract was made between parties standing in the relation of counsel and client, and that one made in such an attitude of confidence, cannot be supported. It is true, such contracts are viewed with a very jealous eye by the chancellor, and many such have been set aside, and counsel compelled to accept a reasonable compensation for their services. Most of the cases, however, which exist, of this nature, will be found to be concerning contracts made after counsel was engaged, and before the termination of the suit. The question then is, can the contract made at the first employment, be subject to the same rule? We perceive no good reason why it should be. At that time counsel cannot be supposed to have acquired such an ascendancy over the client, as to inveigle him into a contract dangerous to his interest. The client is then free to contract or refuse it. The counsel sets his price on his services, and the client may give it or apply to another, and the consent of the client to the terms, is that which constitutes the relation. Every contract made with counsel at his first engagement, must be sealed and brought to a quantum meruit, and his right to stipulate either for a certain or contingent compensation, would be wholly destroyed, if the rule must be applied to the bargain made at the first undertaking. *6 We therefore, conceive, as no unfairness is shown in obtaining this contract, but it was the best the employer could do, according to his own history of the transaction as others charged him a greater certain fee than he was able to give, that the contract ought not to be set aside on this ground. But we cannot dismiss this contract without considering another objection to it, which has not been expressly made and debated at the bar, and which is of a still more serious nature. It is clear, that the supplemental answer of the appellee, setting up the contract, must be considered as a bill for specific performance; and the circumstance of the writing being assigned to the person who holds the possession of the estate to be divided, can not place him in a better attitude than the original holder stood. The ancient and long neglected, but still valid provisions existing in law against champerty and maintenance must bear against it. Champerty which is maintenance of the strongest character, is nothing else than an agreement to aid in a suit, and then divide the thing recovered; and there is no doubt, that this contract fully comes up to this definition. It is true, the answer of the complainant below does not expressly make this point; but every fact suggested or alleged about it, in the pleadings of all the parties, as well as the writing itself shows that it is an agreement of this character. Can the agreement, then, be specifically enforced? The doctrine is well established, that equity will not carry into effect an agreement against the policy of the law, any more than one against its morality. It is not necessary that we should discuss the question, whether champerty be or be not an offense against morality, or only a prohibited act. Be it whichsoever it may, precisely the same consequences follow. Suffice it to say, that it was an offense at common law, before any statutory provision on the subject. 5 Com. Dig. 16, title Maintenance. Statutes were adopted to enforce the provisions of the common law by proper penalties, and these statutes are still in force, at least as to personal estate, and will be found in 1 Dig. L. K. 213. It is true, these statutes do not, in so many words, declare all such contracts void; but their bare directions that such agreements shall not be made, bring the case within the general rule before laid down, and the chancellor will, and ought to shrink from perfecting the agreement, and leave the party to his remedy at law. On principle then, this point is against this contract; and on the score of authority, it cannot be enforced. See 1 Mad. Chan. 325, and Powell v. Knowler, 2 Atk. 224. The decree, therefore, dividing this property, must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to the court below to decree to the original complainant in that court, the redemption and possession of the remaining third of the slaves, on the same principles as the other two-thirds have been decreed, leaving the validity of the contract to be hereafter tested in a court of law, if the parties resort to that mode. *7 The Hon B. Hardin presented the following petition for a re-hearing: The appellee, Hardin, for himself and also for Larue, respectfully solicits of the court, a re-hearing of this cause. The contract between Hardin and Rust, this court has, in substance, decided void, because the same amounts to champerty. Hawkins defines that offense in the following words: "And now we are come to the second species of maintenance called champerty, which is the unlawful maintenance of a suit, in consideration of some bargain to have part of the thing in dispute, or some profit out of it."  1 Haw. 545. The same definition is given by Coke 368. Viner gives the same definition, 15th volume, 149. Blackstone, 4th volume, page 135, gives in substance the same definition, except that he says that the champeter is to carry on the suit at his own expense. Now, although the definition of Blackstone is much more favorable to prove the position hereafter attempted to be established, than Hawkins', &c.; yet it is believed that Hawkins is correct, because whatever act would amount to maintenance, would, if the person guilty of the maintenance were to get as a consideration therefor, part of the thing sued for, amount to the offense of champerty. The converse of the proposition (whatever fugitive dicta there may be to the contrary) must be equally true, that no agreement for a part of the thing in dispute, can be champerty, unless the consideration given for such part be maintenance. To enumerate all the intermeddlings in a suit, which amount to maintenance, is surely unnecessary. The object both of the common law and the statutes of England, was to prevent the officious interference of a person in a suit to which he was no party, and to prevent powerful men from so interfering, as to pervert justice. Hence we see, that it was not maintenance for a person to assist his relation, whether by blood or affinity, or a master his servant, &c. Nor was the rule intended to prevent a person involved in law to obtain advice and the assistance of persons learned in the law. See 15 Vol. Viner, 148. It will be contended, that this contract does not com?? within the common law nor the statutes of England, because there must be the lis pendens at common law. See Haw. 537. Although Hawkins seems to suppose money advanced before suit commenced, is within the mischief; yet he admits the same is not within the law. The different statutes of England, which the court will see in 1 Hawkins 547, expressly speak of the suit then pending. The court will see from the contract, that the same was made before suit commenced. The next position which will be attempted to be supported, is, that the consideration Hardin was to give Rust, was not maintenance; but was such duties as professionally he could legally render. Although the situation of a lawyer in this country, is widely different from either a counsellor or an attorney in England, because it embraces part of both characters, with no law prescribing the limits of his fees, or out of what fund the client shall pay, leaving the same free like other contracts; yet it is believed, that from a careful examination of the English authorities, keeping always in mind the reason upon which the doctrine of maintenance is founded, the court will perceivethat this contract does not come within the definition of champerty. The common law gave the right of a counsellor to argue his causes in court; and to the statute of the 28th Ed. C. 11, there is this proviso: "But it may not be understood hereby, that any person shall be prohibited to have counsel of pleaders, or of learned men in the law, for his fee, or of his parents and next friends." In 1 Hawkins 548, it is said, that giving part of the land in suit, after the end of it, to a counsellor for his wages, is not within the meaning of it, if it evidently appears that there was no kind of precedent bargain, relating to such gift. There appears to be no adjudged case to support this; but it is taken from 2 Institutes 564. In 5 Comyns 18, we see the same text, and from the same authority. Every research has been made which has been practicable, and no other dictum can be found to the same effect, either in England or America. *8 In opposition to that text of law, we find in 15 Viner 149, an adjudged case, the 32 Charles II. "a counsellor took a bond of his client, conditioned to convey one half to him of the estate, on recovering the whole. The court declared that the bond ought to secure what was actually disbursed, and make a reasonable allowance for care &c. in the recovery." The court will see from the principle of the above case, that the court did not consider it champerty; because, if they had, they must have declared the bond void. They declare that the bond shall secure what ought justly be paid; and on account of the undue advantages taken by the counsellor of his client, the chancellor prevents the further enforcement of the contract in the same case cited, in Newland on Contracts, page 457, when the author is investigating the power of the chancellor over contracts unfairly made, between a counsellor and his client. In 5 Comyns 18, it is said, that it is not maintenance for a father to enfeoff his son of the land pendente lite, for his assistance. What is the reason of this rule? Answer; because it is not maintenance for the son to assist the father, and he is expressly within the exceptions to the statute above cited. Upon the score of authority, it is believed not to be champerty, for a counsellor to get part of the thing in suit for his fee; upon principle, there can be no reason for it. Can not the person about to go to law, sell the property in dispute, or any part of it? He certainly can. Does the law authorizing a man to engage counsel for his fee, restrict him as to the fund out of which he shall be paid? It does not. Is he, then, not at liberty to select that fund from which to make compensation, that will best suit his convenience? But lastly and emphatically, does the counsellor give unlawful maintenance as the consideration for an interest in the matter in dispute; for without that, it can not be champerty? The answer must be, that he does not; but gives a consideration as lawful as that of money. There can be no reason for extending the law of champerty to counsellors, when in the discharge of their professional duties. If they be evilly disposed persons, they will encourage litigation as well for a fee in money or other thing, as a part of the matter in dispute. It is frequently more convenient for the litigant to give, contingently, part in contest; because he may not have any thing else to give, and without the aid of the matter in contest, he can never sue for his right, not having otherwise the means to employ counsel, the precise case here. Rust declares that he had tried to employ counsel, and for want of funds he could not do it; and Hardin was the only man he could meet with, who would undertake it for a part of the matter in dispute. There is yet another point of view in which this question ought to be considered. Is it maintenance for a person to assist in the prosecution of a suit, when he has an interest in the subject-matter sued for?? before the suit was commenced, whether that interest be equitable or legal? The answer must be in the negative. See 8 Johnson 170. Now in this case, Hardin had an interest in the equity of redemption of these negroes, before the suit was commenced, and that interest for services which, in his profession, he had a right to render. *9 The court will see, that the statutes against champerty in England, so far as the same respect land, are re-enacted in New York. The case relied on by the court in their opinion, is taken from 2 Atkins, it being the same relied on by Maddocks. That was a contract which related, in part, to a large landed estate, and the person purchasing was neither an attorney nor counsellor. There is yet another consideration, worthy the attention of the court. At common law, it was maintenance to buy a thing in suit or a chose in action; yet these contracts have ever been held valid in equity, and at law they are now recognized. Is not the whole common law doctrine of champerty and maintenance, as it respects the buying and selling of everything not connected with land, whether the title to the same be legal or equitable, in suit or not, virtually and substantially overruled and rendered entirely obsolete? No case can be found, unconnected with land, either in England or America, for the last one hundred and fifty years, declaring those contracts void; but on the other hand, numerous cases, both in law and equity, supporting them. As it respects the selling land, when the grantor was out of possession, there was an express statute of Henry the eighth, against it. A reference is made to Chitty on Bills, page 9 to 13; 1 Fonblanque 213 to 216; and 4 Dunford and East 340. The court is also referred to the different suits of Rogers against Conner and Conner against Rogers. They will see, that Rogers purchased from Henning's heirs their interest in their father's estate, with a view to sue for the same, and agreed to give for it one hundred pounds. Both those contracts were supported in the first instance, by the court of appeals. After an interlocutory decree, Conner amended his answer, and stated a purchase from one of the heirs, who?? at the time he sold to Rogers, was an infant. The court permitted the amendment, and altered the decree as to one-half the estate. The purchase of Rogers would, according to the notions of the common law, have been maintenance; yet this court sustained it. The contract between Hardin and Rust, does not come within the statute of Edward; for in the language of the statute, the suit must be hanging in court when the bargain is made. So has it been expounded in 2 Institutes 564, above referred to. Not so in this case. If tested by the common law, it is not within the same; first, because the matter must be in plea; secondly, equity and the courts of common law following its rules, has overruled that part of the common law. Is not the usage and custom of this country and Virginia, nay, all America, against it for a number of years back, and is that to have no weight with the court? general and particular, when none??exists at common law? What is it that gives, in nine-tenths of the cases, liens Are they given by statute? No; but by usage and custom. What statute authorized a court of equity and then a court of law, to recognize an assignment of choses in action in England, and some of the states of America? Answer; none but the usage and custom of trade. According to the fair exposition of the common law, after the statute made a bond assignable, the assignor would not be liable if the obligor proved insolvent, unless it was so agreed in the assignment; yet the usage, custom and universal understanding to the contrary, has induced the courts of this country to decide differently. A statute has ever been considered as virtually repealed, if there be no instance of the same having been enforced for a series of years; and I ask the court, with great deference for the opinion given by them, if a single adjudged case can be found, applying the law of maintenance and champerty to a chancellor, since the statutes were enacted, or applying the statutes to any purchase unconnected with land, for the last two hundred years? If there be such an one, your petitioner has not been able to find it; and has not this court repeatedly said, that an obsolete statute shall not be enforced? *10 The opinion given by the court, intimates that the amended answer of Larue, is, in fact, a supplemental answer, for a specific execution of a contract. Your petitioner is not advised sufficiently to say, that in any case, an amended answer is ever called a supplemental answer. Waiving the question whether the same be an amended or supplemental answer, what is the substance and object of it? Is it to obtain a specific execution of the contract between Hardin and Rust? I answer no; because Larue, who was entitled to Hardin's claim was in possession of the negroes. If Hardin had obtained possession of the negroes, could he have filed a bill for a specific execution of the contract between him and Rust? Certainly not; because, being entitled to a third, and having them in possession, there would be nothing to sue about. What was it, then, that made it necessary for Larue to amend his answer? Nothing but to obtain an alteration of the decree as to one-third in dispute; and it was only the decree that was already pronounced, which made it necessary for him to bring his claim under Hardin before any court, because his title to one-third under the claim, was complete when coupled with possession; but the decree would have wrongfully taken the negroes out of his possession, without he exhibited this new matter to the court. The court too decided every part of this contract on the part of Hardin, to be fair and correct. That it was an advantageous one for Rust, he admits; because it gave him two-thirds of the negroes, when he could not engage counsel upon any other terms; that he had nothing else to give, he declares himself; and that for want of other means, he could get no other lawyer to undertake it; and it is apparent, from the whole case, that it was from his own importunity, Hardin engaged in it. In this kind of case, thus situated, it is believed the court will not feel disposed to apply the old, forgotten and obsolete doctrine of champerty and maintenance, to it, unless the very letter of the law is so imperative, that the court can not do otherwise. To turn the party round to a court of law, is, at once, to decide against him, particularly as the court give him no lien upon the property, until the suit at law is decided; because the whole record shows Rust insolvent, and his contesting this claim of Larue, under his contract made with Hardin, shows that he will do any and every thing within his power to defeat the claim entirely. Your petitioner would have bowed with submission to the opinion of the court, and not have solicited a rehearing of this cause, had the point upon which the court decided, been made in the pleadings, or moved in argument, in either court; but as yet, he has had no opportunity of being heard upon a point deeply implicating his character and feelings. Because, there is some reproach to be attached to the commission of the offence of which the court has said he is guilty; and if he must go out of court under the chagrin, mortification and humiliation of such a decision, yet the anguish would be greatly mitigated by the consolation and reflection, that he has been heard in his own defense. Upon an argument of the question he can not promise much; but yet it will be recollected, that some of the greatest inventions now known in the world, have commenced from rude and simple hints. One thing he will promise, that labor and diligence shall not be wanting on his part, to investigate and develop this old obsolete doctrine, buried under the rubbish of two hundred years. *11 Your petitioner, although ever the advocate for the rights of the judiciary, believing the independence of the bench to be the sheet-anchor of all our liberties, civil, religious and political, and at all time disposed to treat the bench with the highest respect; yet he hopes that it will not be construed to be a departure from the above feelings and principles, if he should ask the court if a re-argument ought not to be desirable to themselves; first, because the point was not made in the pleadings or argument; secondly, the decision was given upon law, against the usage and custom of this country, upon a point never yet directly decided by any court; thirdly, there was not a full court, and the appellees have literally never been heard upon the question. For the above reasons, your petitioner humbly conceives that it is due to the appellees, that the court should give them a rehearing, but if not due to them as a matter of right, he asks it as a matter of favor. BEN. HARDIN. A rehearing was granted and re-argument had, and now, on the 22d of April, 1824, the following opinion was given: We were more willing to grant another argument of this cause, on account of the point on which the court decided against the appellees not having been made in the pleadings, or relied upon expressly in the first argument. At the re-argument, the question has been ably investigated, and the former opinion has been zealously but respectfully assailed. But notwithstanding the force of argument employed, and the authorities relied on, however much we may be disposed to secure to counsel, the stipulated reward for their services, especially where the services, as in this case, have been performed with diligence and professional skill, and have extended far beyond what a mere counsel or solicitor is bound to perform, yet we are constrained to adhere to our former opinion on the main question. It is not essential to the offence of champerty, that there be a suit commenced at the time the contract was entered into. By having made such contract, the counsel does not forfeit his right to full compensation for his services. It has been urged, that the doctrine of champerty, especially as to personal estate, has been, if not overturned, at least disregarded for the last century or two, and of course that it is obsolete. It can not be admitted that the doctrine has been abandoned; it continued in the English courts until the revolution, and it will be seen by the authorities cited by Chancellor Kent, in the case of Arden and others v. Patterson, 5 John. Chan. Rep. 44, that many cases have been decided since, on the same principles, and Mr. Kent himself has investigated and approved the doctrine in the case cited as applicable to a contract between an attorney and his client, touching a matter of controversy not then in suit. It is true, we do not remember any case decided in Virginia or here, since our separation, which maintains the doctrine; but this is owing to no case occurring which required it, more than to an abandonment of the principle. It would be attended with consequences not easily foreseen, to decide that all the principles that had not been acted upon expressly, either here or in Virginia, since the revolution, were no longer in use. It would require a series of cases to be shown where such principles might have been, but were not applied, to furnish sufficient evidence of disuse, before we ought to disregard any settled principle of law or equity. *12 Where, from the insolvency of his client, a suit at law would be fruitless, equity will sustain jurisdiction of his claim, and will decree a reasonable compensation in money, to be made out of the property recovered. It has been insisted that such a contract can not be maintenance in an attorney, unless he supports the suit in whole or in part, at his costs, and that the services and skill of an attorney, counsel or solicitor, may be thus employed, and rendering them as a consideration for such a contract, cannot make it champerty. It is true, some contracts between counsel and client, have been set aside in equity, as unconscientious, on the ground of the uncontrolled influence of counsel over a client, who is under the pressure of a law suit, or harassed with its ??ares and anxieties; but we do not view this as one of that character, and as said in the former opinion, we would not disturb it on that account. But it can not be conceded, that the skill and services of counsel, can not be considered a consideration for champerty; for the offence rests not so much on what is given for a share in the matter in contest, as it does in stipulating for, and taking that share. The policy of the law is to leave litigants in possession of their entire interest, and not to permit others unknown to the record, to form an alliance with the litigant, and divide the spoil. This might foster suits and disturb the harmony of society; and with regard to counsel, the practice is supposed to have a tendency to corrupt the profession, and thus produce lasting mischief to the community. And it will be found on an examination of all the cases, that contracts to divide what is recovered between counsel and client, have been always treated as champerty. It has also been insisted, that to affect the contract with champerty, it is necessary that it should have been made after suit brought. This requisition has been held necessary to vitiate a contract, because of the undue influence of counsel over a client alone, whether the contract is, or is not to divide the subject of dispute. But notwithstanding some definitions of the offence of champerty cited at the bar, seem to favor this assertion, yet no case has been found, which expressly requires the pendency of the suit at the date of the contract, as an essential ingredient. And Jacob in his Law Dictionary, title Champerty, page 421, expressly lays it down, and in support of his position, cites high authority, that "the giving part of the lands in suit after the end of it, to a counsellor, for his reward, is not champerty, if there be no precedent bargain relating to such gift; but if it had been agreed between the counsellor and his client, before action brought, that he should have part for his reward, then it would be champerty; and it is dangerous to meddle with any such gift, since it carries with it a strong presumption of champerty." If this authority can be relied on, it concludes the question as to the two points relied on, and last noticed. So that although the first opinion of this court was formed without such aid from the investigations of the bar as has been since afforded, yet it will stand the test of scrutiny, on the score of authority and of principle. *13 It is, however, suggested that Rust ought not to be permitted to keep the forty dollars paid by Hardin for him, to counsel, who, employed first by Rust, argued the cause in the court below. It is true, that the appellee, Hardin did pay forty dollars to the counsel employed by Rust, to argue the cause on its first trial, as stated in the first opinion; and it is also true, that the services of Hardin, which seem to have been faithfully and skillfully bestowed, demand a liberal compensation, and he ought not to lose either; nor do we conceive him or his assignee barred by making the contract, which we have deemed affected with champerty, or by any thing decided in this court, from the recovery of these demands. On the contrary, it is evident that he ought not to lose them; but the difficulty in now giving him redress, arises from his possessing an adequate remedy at law for that purpose, and the consequent want of jurisdiction in a court of equity, where the two appellees have substantially the attitude of complainants, although they are nominally defendants in the court below. Rust agrees in his answer, that he is willing to give Hardin a liberal compensation, and it is evident from the allegations of the pleadings, as well as the admissions of Rust himself, that he is utterly insolvent, and the slaves in question constitute the only fund out of which this compensation can be taken. Our decision upon the contract between the parties, virtually sets it aside, and if Rust was a direct complainant for that purpose, there would be but little doubt of the jurisdiction of a court of equity, and he would be compelled to do equity before he got relief. And indeed in the present case, he has measurably come to that attitude, and has become complainant against both Hardin and Larue, for the purpose of getting clear of the written contract; for after he has answered the interrogatories in the supplemental answer of Larue, he has inserted numerous interrogatories, both to Hardin and Larue, to which they have responded. Under such circumstances, especially as a remedy at law may be fruitless, we conceive that it will do no violence to the rules of equity, to decree to Hardin, or rather his assignee, Larue, not only the forty dollars paid, with its interest, but also a liberal compensation for his services, not only for his attention and skill as counsel, but also as agent in attending to the necessary requisitions of the cause in taking depositions, procuring witnesses and attending upon the meetings of commissioners and such like services, and thus the whole controversy will be ended at once, without multiplicity of suits or circuity of action. The court below must, therefore, on the return of the cause, proceed to fix and ascertain by a commissioner or commissioners appointed for that purpose, a liberal compensation for Hardin's services, as well as the interest on the aforesaid forty dollars, and decree the amount thereof to be discounted against the hire of the slaves, if so much hire there be coming to Rust, and if not, then, that so many of the slaves shall be sold under the direction of the court, as will satisfy said demand. *14 The former opinion and decree of this court, must, therefore, stand unaltered and affirmed, and the cause be remanded, with directions to that court, in effectuating the former decree, also to regard and effectuate the opinion now delivered. Ky.App. 1823. Rust v. Larue 4 Litt. 411, 14 Ky. 411, 1823 WL 1304 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 172 END OF DOCUMENT
