(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 171,  17 Ky. 171 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1522 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Pendleton and sureties v. Bank of Kentucky. Jun. 20, 1824. *1 ??yer, Writs, Demurrer, Abatement, Statutes, Practice, Misnomer, Corporations, Bank of Kentucky, By-laws, Cashier, Pleading, Equity, Evidence. ERROR TO THE HARDIN CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 199 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k199 k. Time for filing or serving demurrer. Most Cited Cases A demurrer in abatement for variance between the writ and the declaration is within the spirit of the act of assembly limiting the time for filing dilatory pleas and special demurrers to the first day appointed for the trial of the cause after the return of process executed. Pleading 302 k 306 302 Pleading 302IX Profert or Oyer 302k306 k. Oyer. Most Cited Cases It is not necessary to crave oyer of the capias ad respondendum;  it is part of the record without it. Pleading 302 k 306 302 Pleading 302IX Profert or Oyer 302k306 k. Oyer. Most Cited Cases Where the papers are on file, a statement in a demurrer that oyer is craved and given, to which no objection appears, is sufficient. Pleading 302 k 306 302 Pleading 302IX Profert or Oyer 302k306 k. Oyer. Most Cited Cases The proper mode of obtaining oyer is by prayer entered on record to which the opposite party may counterplead and thereby have decision of the court whether oyer is to be given or not. Pleading 302 k 306 302 Pleading 302IX Profert or Oyer 302k306 k. Oyer. Most Cited Cases Anciently oyer of the writ could be craved at any stage of a cause. Abatement and Revival 2 k 31 2 Abatement and Revival 2III Defects and Objections as to Parties and Proceedings 2k31 k. Variance between process and pleading. Most Cited Cases Where a demurrer is filed after the first day the suit was set for trial, though there be a variance between the writ and declaration, and that insisted on in abatement, it will be treated as in bar. Banks and Banking 52 k 51 52 Banks and Banking 52II Banking Corporations and Associations 52II(D) Officers and Agents 52k51 k. Election or appointment, qualification, and tenure.  Most Cited Cases A misnomer of the corporation, in the official bond of a cashier, by the omission of the words "and company," does not vitiate the bond. Banks and Banking 52 k 51 52 Banks and Banking 52II Banking Corporations and Associations 52II(D) Officers and Agents 52k51 k. Election or appointment, qualification, and tenure.  Most Cited Cases Where a bank, pursuant to its by-laws, required the cashier to renew his bond, and the order requiring the renewal provided that the previous bond should not thereby be impaired until given up to be canceled, it was held that the first bond, remaining uncanceled, remained in force after the second was executed. Banks and Banking 52 k 55(5) 52 Banks and Banking 52II Banking Corporations and Associations 52II(D) Officers and Agents 52k53 Rights and Liabilities as to Bank and  Stockholders 52k55 Actions and Proceedings to  Enforce 52k55(5) k. Evidence. Most Cited  Cases Where a cashier applies to his own use the notes, etc., of the bank, he is liable for the full nominal amount, and cannot show that such notes, etc., were depreciated. Banks and Banking 52 k 109(3) 52 Banks and Banking 52III Functions and Dealings 52III(B) Representation of Bank by Officers and Agents 52k109 Bills, Notes, and Securities 52k109(3) k. Cashier. Most Cited  Cases The cashier of the Bank of Kentucky has no authority, ex officio, to accept bills of exchange. Bonds 58 k 62 58 Bonds 58II Construction and Operation 58k62 k. Amount or extent of liability. Most Cited Cases Where a cashier converts securities of the bank which call for money or notes from the bank, he is liable on his bond for the full nominal amount, and cannot show that the notes were depreciated in value. Bonds 58 k 109 58 Bonds 58IV Performance or Breach of Condition 58k109 k. Breach of condition. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k112) A cashier, who receives money for deposit, out of the bank, and not in banking hours, or receives its funds at places distant from the bank, and does not account for them is liable on his official bond. Bonds 58 k 129 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k129 k. Evidence. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k131) In an action on a cashier's bond, evidence that he drew, in his individual capacity, a draft on the bank, and accepted it for the bank as cashier, and sold it, and that it was transmitted to him by the purchaser, with request to pass it to his credit, is not admissible, since the cashier has no power, ex officio, to accept drafts for the bank. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 1863 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101VII Directors, Officers, and Agents 101VII(D) Rights, Duties, and Liabilities as to Corporation and Its Shareholders or Members 101k1859 Corporate Property, Funds, and Securities 101k1863 k. Misappropriation and conversion. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k312(3)) An officer of a corporation is liable for misappropriating property belonging to it which came into his possession at a time when he was not engaged in the business of the corporation. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 2466 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101IX Corporate Powers and Liabilities 101IX(D) Contracts and Indebtedness 101k2462 Making and Issuance of Bonds, Debentures,  Certificates, and Indentures 101k2466 k. Form, requisites, and validity. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k453) Where a note or bond does not of itself import a promise to pay to a certain corporation, it may, by express averment in an action on it, be shown that it was made payable to such corporation by the name contained in the instrument. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 2463 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101IX Corporate Powers and Liabilities 101IX(D) Contracts and Indebtedness 101k2462 Making and Issuance of Bonds, Debentures,  Certificates, and Indentures 101k2463 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k453) A bond given to a corporation is not void because it runs to the president and directors instead of to the corporation itself. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 2534 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101IX Corporate Powers and Liabilities 101IX(F) Civil Actions 101k2533 Use of Corporate Name 101k2534 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k514(1)) Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 2564(2) 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101IX Corporate Powers and Liabilities 101IX(F) Civil Actions 101k2561 Pleading 101k2564 Allegations and Denial of Corporate  Existence 101k2564(2) k. In action by corporation. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k514(1)) In an action by a corporation created by special act, the fact that the declaration misstates its name presents no ground for demurrer, and can only be raised by plea in abatement, because courts will not judicially notice such corporations. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 3253 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101XIII Foreign Corporations 101XIII(D) Actions by or Against Foreign Corporations 101k3252 Right to Sue or Defend 101k3253 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k661(1)) A corporation chartered in one state may sue in the courts of another state. Evidence 157 k 250 157 Evidence 157VII Admissions 157VII(D) By Agents or Other Representatives 157k250 k. Principal or surety. Most Cited  Cases The admissions of a cashier, made while in office, that he had misapplied the funds of the bank, are evidence against his sureties. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. *2 Statement of the case. This is an action brought by the bank against the Cashier of one of the Branches and his sureties in of??ice for official defalcation. At the term next after process executed, and at which the suit stood for trial, the defendants below, ??ow appellants, applied for and obtained from the judge ??n order for a change of venue, and there were no plead??ngs filed at that term, on the part of the defendants. At the first succeeding term of the court to which the cause was moved, the defendants appeared, and after presenting a demurrer, which professed on its face to crave oyer of the writ, declaration and bond declared on, also filed sundry pleas in bar. The court overruled the demurrer. It is now insisted, that the demurrer ought to have been sustained, because it appears that the writ was ??ssued in the name of the President and Directors of the Bank of Kentucky, the declaration in the name of the President, Directors and Company of the Bank, and the bond was executed to the President and Directors of the Bank of Kentucky only; and it is insisted that this variance ought to be held fatal. (1.) Before we answer this question, we will notice a?? previous one, made in that court, and debated both there and here. The demurrer was argued and de?? cided without paying any attention to the oyer craved of the writ, as stated on the face of the demurrer, and of course it was taken as if oyer was given. After wards, the counsel for the plaintiffs below moved the court to strike out the oyer craved of the writ, and to refuse oyer thereof, which the court did accordingly which is insisted to be erroneous. (1) The proper mode of obtaining oyer, is, by prayer entered on record, to which the opposite party may counterplead, and thereby have decision of the court, whether oyer is to be given or not--Arg. When the papers are on file, a statement in the demurrer that oyer is craved and given, to which no objection appears, is sufficient; and after decision the case will be taken as if oyer had been regularly obtained. The oyer craved of the writ and bond is not by a?? entry of record, as it properly ought to have been, bu?? is a bare statement on the face of the defendants' de?? murrer, that oyer was craved and given. This, according to the loose practice prevalent in the country, is frequently taken and treated by the parties and the court, as oyer, and may answer, where the papers are on file and to be seen before. But it is evident, that if any paper was not produced an application by prayer of oyer to the court on record alone will do. With this prayer the opposite party may comply, or counterplead the oyer, and have the decision of the court thereon, whether oyer is to be given or not. As this statement in the plea was treated as real oyer of record, we shall so consider it, although no oyer is craved on the order of the court; and we shall view the court as deciding the cause, and then determining that oyer of the writ could not be given. *3 We do not conceive that the decision refusing oyer of the writ, is any way calculated to prejudice the defendants, or preclude them from taking advantage o?? the variance. (2.) In England, anciently, oyer of the writ could be demanded, and then the party could either plead the variance or demur in abatement. And as oyer could be craved at any stage, the consequence was, that the variance could be taken advantage of at any stage, even in arrest of judgment or upon a writ of error. (2) Anciently, in England, oyer could be craved of the original writ at any stage, and a variance between it and the declaration, could be taken advantage of either in arrest of judgment or on error.--Argu. (3.) This produced considerable mischiefs, and to remedy it, the courts ultimately refused to grant oyer of the writ, or of the capias; and the consequence was that there could be no demurrer in abatement, or plea?? of the variance. This contest, however, must be considered as applicable to the original writ, which issued ??ut of chancery, as a warrant to the court to proceed, ??nd not to the capias, which is similar to ours. (3) In modern times, in England, oyer is refused of either the original writ or capias, and there can be there, no demurrer nor plea in abatement for the variance.--Argu. (4.) Here, however, we have no such original writ, ??nd our capias answers all the purposes of their origi??al and mesne process combined. It has been decided, ??t an early period in this country, that this capias com??oses a part of the record. See Litt S. C. 10. This ??ecision has been followed and virtually sanctioned ??ver since, and it is now too late to overturn it. (4) Here we have no original writ. The capias answers all the purposes of the original and mesne process combined, and necessarily composes part of the record, without oyer. Therefore, it is nugatory to crave, and not error to refuse it. The capias, then, being a part of the record, it is en??irely nugatory to crave oyer of it. It is futile, to ask ??hat to be spread on record, which is already a part of ??t. It can not, then, be wrong, for a court to refuse the ?? dle ceremony of oyer; nor does the decision of the court refusing oyer, make the writ less a part of the ??ecord, that it was before. The decision on this point was correct. (5.) It is then insisted, if this writ is to be considered as part of the record, it follows, that the variance will always appear, and can be taken advantage of at any stage of the cause, it was the case in England, when ??yer was granted and, therefore the variance ought to ??e held fatal on this demurrer. (5) Demurrer in abatement for variance between the writ and declaration, is in the spirit of the act limiting the time for filing dilatory pleas and special demurrers, to the first day appointed for the trial, and, therefore, can not afterwards be received. However natural this conclusion may be, we are unwilling to go the whole extent to which it would lead us, and are tempted, like the courts of England, to place some reasonable limitation on it, and lessen the consequences of the doctrine which admits the writ to be part of the record before or without oyer. *4 Dilatory pleas and special demurrers to the declaration are limited, by the act of assembly, to the first day appointed for the trial of the cause, after the return of process executed. Although the letter of the act may not embrace a demurrer in abatement, for variance between the writ and declaration, yet its spirit will not permit such demurrers to escape. The law permits the party either to plead the variance, in some cases, or demur in abatement. If he elects to plead, after the first day of trial, he is precluded from doing so. If he takes another mode to reach the same object, it must be equally within the mischiefs intended to be avoided; and. therefore, the practice of demurring in abatement must be limited to the same hour as pleas are, which attempt the same thing. (6.) We, therefore, conceive that no such demurre?? ought to be afterwards allowed to abate the suit, bu?? must be taken as a general demurrer to the merits an?? substance of the pleading. This demurrer, then, wa?? filed too late, and can not avail the defendants below, s?? far as it is relied on for the abatement of the suit be??cause of a misnomer of the corporation in the writ even if the matter could be reached by demurrer. (6) Where a demurrer was filed after the first day the suit was set for trial, though there be a variance between the writ and declaration, and that insisted on in abatement, it will be taken and treated as in bar. (7.) But we are not disposed to admit that the party here could demur for the variance, and conceive tha?? he was bound to plead it specially; and such was th?? ancient rule with regard to corporations. (7) In an action by a corporation, a variance between the name in the writ and declaration, is no cause of demurrer, but of plea in abatement. (8.) It may be insisted, that no corporation can be es?? tablished in this state, but by act of assembly, and tha?? according to our laws, the court is bound judicially t?? notice and to know every act of assembly, whether pub??lic or private, and therefore must judicially know th?? name of every corporation here. (8) In this state, as corporations can only be established by legislative act, all of which the courts must know, they may be bound to know, judicially, the names of all so created--Argu. (9.) Whereas, in England, corporations created by private statutes could not be known judicially, but by plea, as well as those which existed by charter from the Crown; and, consequently, the party must there se?? out by plea, the true name, to which the other migh?? reply another corporation by the name sued on; and this was the reason why a plea there was necessary But here, as the law is different, the maxim applies ratione cessante, cessat etiam lex. (9) In England, corporations were by private statutes or grants from the crown, and were not judicially known; hence, misnomer in their cases had to be pleaded.--Argu. (10.) To this we answer, that notwithstanding this change of law, the reason which requires a plea, and forbids the touching of the question by a demurrer, has not entirely ceased. Corporations granted entirely by the Crown, before the revolution, may still exist in Virginia or here, as we were part of Virginia. *5 (10) Corporations granted entirely by the crown of England, before the revolution, may still exist in Kentucky--Argu. (11.) Moreover, the corporations granted and incorporated by our own state, are not the only ones which can sue or be sued in our court, and have rights existing here, which can be asserted by the laws of this country. The contrary may be considered as law, according to the decisions of the supreme court of the United States, and Silver Lake Bank v. North, John?? Chan. Rep. 370. It would be treating our sister states with an unjustifiable want of comity, which the laws of the Union would not justify on our part, to exclude all their corporations from asserting their rights in ou?? courts. (11) The corporations of our sister states, are entitled to sue in our courts.--Argu. (12.) As, then, corporations which we can, and those which we can not judicially know by their names, may still sue here, the reason still exists for holding the party to his plea in abatement, for a variance or misnomer of a corporation, and for precluding his reaching it by a demurrer. (12) As corporations which the courts can not judicially know by their names; may sue in our courts, a misnomer can not be reached by demurrer, but must be pleaded. (13.) Besides, if we can judicially know that the party here intended the well known Bank of Kentucky, incorporated by the laws of this state, in the writ and declaration, in the matter we are bound to know that it is rightly named, by its full corporate name, and that in the former is left out part only of the corporate name by which it is known. (13) If the court, in this case, judicially know that the well known Bank of Kentucky, incorporated by the laws of this state, was the plaintiff, they would notice that it was called by its full name in the declaration, and part had been left out in the writ.--Argu. (14.) This brings us to the question that has been largely insisted on, that the part omitted in the writ is substantial, and not matter of form, and therefore the demurrer ought to be sustained. (14) For the omission in the writ, of the "company," in the corporate name of the Bank of Kentucky, it might, if taken in proper time and mode, be abated; but after declaration in the full name, the action can not be abated by demurrer. It has been insisted, that the company is the substance of the corporation, and the President and Directors only the agents. The company may be entitled to the funds, or most of them, it is true, but the President and Directors are the efficient and active part of the corporation, known in law, and, therefore, naming them includes the most substantial part. And although the want of the company in the writ might have abated it, if taken in a proper time and mode; yet, as that was omitted, the declaration has cured the matter, and the action can not abate by demurrer. (15.) It has been seriously urged, that as the bond was given to the President and Directors only, and does not, in its obligatory part, include the company, it is void. *6 (15) A bond to the president and directors (omitting the company) of ?? he Bank of Kentucky, is not void, but an action may be maintained upon it in full name, by averring in the declaration, that it was executed to the corporation. It is so repugnant to the principles of justice, to permit parties contracting with corporations, to avoid their contracts, and corporations to avoid their own grants, for small errors and omissions in stating the corporate name, that we should be unwilling to adopt such a principle, unless compelled by the settled doctrines of law. It is true, many cases are found where courts tolerated the rule; but it was reprobated and shaken by Lord Coke, 10 Rep. 123, and since then, the rule is adopted, that such grants and contracts are good, and that it is competent for the party to aver that they were executed to or by the corporation, and if the fact shall thus appear, all such contracts shall be good, if not executed to the corporation, it will be competent for defendants to traverse, and try this averment; and if found for them, they will be discharged. We do not, therefore, conceive this bond to be void; and as the corporation is rightly named in the declaration, and it is stated that the defendants made and executed this obligation to the plaintiffs, we deem it sufficient, and the demurrer ought not to have been sustained on that point. It is further insisted, that the breaches assigned are not good, and that they are too general to show cause of action. This is an action of covenant on the bond, and the stipulations are: "That the said James T. Pendleton shall well and faithfully discharge all and singular the duties of his said office of cashier, and abide by the rules and by-laws of said institution." The breaches assigned, are: "That the said James T. Pendleton did not well and faithfully discharge all and singular the duties of his said office of cashier, nor did he abide by the rules and by-laws of said institution, during his continuance in office, to-wit, from the date when the bond was executed, until the -- day of ____; but the same to do, hath wholly failed. He hath, during said time, used, and wasted, and misapplied the funds of the said Bardstown Branch Bank, contrary to the rules and by-laws of said institution. Nor have the said defendants paid the plaintiffs the said sum of fifty thousand dollars," (the penalty of the bond) or any part thereof." (16.) It is a very general rule, founded in the soundest maxims of good sense, that it is sufficient, in affirmative covenants, stipulating the performance of any duty, to state the non- performance in the words of the covenant. This declaration having done so, and thereby having shown a subsisting cause of action, we can not say that the rule does not apply here, and we can not see any reason for requiring greater particularity. (16) The general rule that it is sufficient in an affirmative covenant for the performance of a duty, to assign the breach in the words of the instrument, applies in an action on a bo??d ??nditioned for the faithless discharge of the duties of a cashier of a bank. *7 (17.) But it is contended, as the bond refers to the by-laws, and the breaches assigned accuse Pendleton of non-compliance therewith, it was necessary to set out these by-laws, as they were of a private character and can not be noticed as public laws. (17) The omission to set out the by laws of the corporation, which the defendant covenanted to abide by, and which the breach charges he did not comply with, whether any objection or not, can not be taken advantage of on general demurrer. there being other good breaches assigned. If it be conceded (which is not intended), that it ??as necessary for the plaintiffs to set out these by-laws, ??e do not perceive how the want of them would avail ??e defendants on a general demurrer; for if this ??reach is bad, there was at least one good breach, and ??e rule is too well settled to be shaken, that where ??ere is one breach good, a demurrer to a declaration ??ust be overruled, although there be numerous bad ??reaches. (18.) The next question presented for our considera??on, arises out of a plea of the defendants. It is to this ??fect: That an ordinance of the corporation had pro??ded that the office bond of the cashier and clerk, ??ould be annually renewed in the month of January; ??at pursuant to said ordinance, in some month of Janu??y succeeding this bond, the cashier had executed a ??ew bond, with sureties different from those in this ??nd, which new bond was received and approved of ??y the president and directors, and retained by them, when the bond in the plaintiffs' declaration ceased to ?? obligatory, for any violations by the said Pendleton ?? his duties as cashier, committed after the date of the ??w bond." They then aver that they kept and per??rmed each and every of the covenants contained in ??e writing declared on, up to the date of said new bond. ??is plea made profert of the ordinance recited. (18) Where a corporation in pursuance of its by-laws requiring the bonds of its officers to be annually renewed, with a proviso in the ordinance that the renewal shall not impair the obligation of any previous bond, until given up to be cancelled, takes a second bond, without cancelling the first, it can not be pleaded in an action on the first, with condition for the discharge of the duties of the office, without saying for what time, that its conditions were performed, until the second bond was delivered. The plaintiffs claimed and had oyer granted of the ??dinance, and demurred, and the court overruled the ??ea. The ordinance has a proviso annexed thereto, after ??recting the renewal of the bond, in the following ??ords: "Provided, however, that such renewal, or any ??ing contained in or growing out of this section, shall ??t impair the obligation of any previous or other bond ??til actually given up to be cancelled by the board of ??rectors. The security required of each, shall be ap??oved by the president and directors of the branch, ??d a copy of the bond and a certificate that the secu??y has been approved as aforesaid, shall be transmit??d to the president of the Bank of Kentucky." *8 An obligee may take any number of obligations from different persons to secure the same demand; and unless one is accepted in accord and satisfaction of the rest, and perhaps even then, all remain in force.--Argu. The question made and insisted on by the appellants ?? this demurrer, as well as on the evidence, is, that on ??ving the new bond, the old one was substituted and ??scharged as to future defalcations, and could only be ?? tained to secure defalcations which had taken place before the new bond was executed, and had no furthe?? obligation. It is certain that an obligee may receive as many ob?? ligations as he pleases, from different persons, to secur?? the same demand, and unless one is expressly accepte?? in accord and satisfaction of the rest, they are all i?? force, and it is not a clear point that even such a?? ceptance would discharge them. In this case, there i?? a complete negative placed on the supposition that on?? was taken for the other. And moreover, there is an express declaration, o?? what is tantamount thereto, that the obligation firs?? given, shall remain the same. It shall not be "im?? paired;" that is, it shall not be weakened, lessened o?? rendered in any degree worse than it was before. It has been insisted, that good policy requires tha?? the terms of the first bond should be shortened to th?? execution of the second; that a contrary doctrine e?? ables banks to attach to each office a train of suretie?? and thereby extend its circle of influence and oblig??tion. It is true, that banks have it in their power, n?? only in this way, but by more extensive means, to e??tend their obligations on society. Still, this argumen?? would be more suitably addressed to another depar??ment of government, when creating banks, than to u?? when adjudicating on their contracts. Here, howeve?? the contract sued on has no limitation in its terms. ?? no new bond had ever been executed, there could n?? have been any pretext for saying there would be an?? limit, and when the new one is executed, on term?? which expressly secure the obligation of the first, would be an arbitrary act to declare that the obligati?? of the first should cease at the date of the second. Where the subsequent bond is taken for the same purpose as a prior one, with a declaration that the obligation of the first shall not be thereby impaired, it remains as extensive as if the other had not been taken. (19.) Besides, the execution of numerous succeedi?? bonds, which have multiplied the number of suretie?? may operate to the benefit of the present defendant?? for there is at least a plausibility, if not more, in su?? posing that a court of equity may consider them all ?? united into one bond, from the date of their acceding ?? the securityship, and compel them to contribute in ca?? of the failure of the cashier. (19) Quere--Might not the securities in the first bond, by bill in equity, compel those in the second to contribute to pay the damages recovered for breaches during the existence of both. *9 In descending to the points made on the evidence, w?? do not deem it necessary to notice the questions pr?? sented on the part of the appellants in their bills of e?? ceptions, except the fifth and tenth, as all the rest ha?? ??een already noticed in principle, or were so correctly ??ecided by the court below, according to well settled ??rinciples, that there is no necessity of making them a ??ubject of distinct consideration in this court. (20.) The question presented in the fifth exception, ??oes not arise out of the kind or grade of evidence ??hich the court admitted to prove the facts. That was ??f a presumptive nature, it is true; but it was such as ??ight properly be left to the consideration of the jury, ??nder the caution given by the court. (20) In an action against a cashier and his securities, on his official bond, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties, evidence that he drew, in his individual character, a draft on the bank and accepted it for the bank, as cashier, and sold it for the money, and that it was transmitted to him by the purchaser, with request to pass it to his credit, is inadmissible. Cashiers in the Bank of Kentucky, had not power, ex officio, to accept drafts to bind the bank. But after the facts which the evidence conduced to ??rove, are ascertained, their admissibility to charge the ??ashier and his sureties on his official band, is very ??uestionable. They are to this effect: Pendleton, the cashier, drew, ?? his individual character, a check or draft on the ??ranch of which he was cashier, and then accepted it ??r the bank, as the cashier, and sold it to, and received ??e amount therefor?? in money, from the branch bank ?? the United States in Louisville. The cashier of the latter bank, transmitted it to Pen??leton, as cashier, with directions to carry it to the ??edit of the Bank of the United States. If Pendleton ever received this draft, which was a ??isputed fact, he never placed it on the books of his ??ranch, to the credit of the United States' Bank, and ??othing more was ever heard of it. It was insisted that this created a liability for so ??uch, on the part of the Bank of Kentucky, by the act ?? Pendleton, its cashier, to the Bank of the United ??tates, and, therefore, Pendleton and his securities ??ust account for it. It will be readily admitted, that if Pendleton, by ??awing and accepting the draft, did create a liability ?? the Bank of Kentucky, which the Bank of the ?? nited States could enforce, he and his sureties ought ?? be made liable here. But we are unable to perceive any proof, conducing ?? show any liability on this bank, to pay the amount of ??is draft. (21.) It is true, the charter of the bank does author?? the president and directors to deal in bills of ex??ange. Whether this extends so far as to allow them ?? be accepters of bills, we need not now enquire; ?? if it be conceded that they have that power, and that they can transfer it to their cashiers or agents, in ?? proper mode, yet there is not the least evidence adduc??ed to show that they had authorized Pendleton to bin?? them by acceptances. *10 (21) Though the Bank of Kentucky had power to deal in bills of exchange; yet whether power to accept or not, and whether power to confer authority on its cashiers to do so or not, to prove the bank liable on the acceptance of one of them, it must be shown he was authorized to make it. He was, no doubt, authorized ex officio, to pay draft?? and checks, when the drawer had funds, and when h?? had none, the payment would be a waste of the funds o?? the bank; but to accept and create liabilities on th?? bank, is a different thing. (22.) It is not shown that he had that power. Be?? sides, it did not appear that the Bank of Kentucky wa?? ever the owner of this draft. It belonged to anothe?? bank, and if the acceptance was invalid, the impositio?? is on the purchasing bank; and as this bank had no i?? terest in it, they can not make the cashier liable, as for ?? breach of official duty, however liable he may be to th?? bank who purchased the draft, for selling and then s?? creting the check, if it came to his hands. (22) Evidence that the cashier secreted bills in which the bank had no interest, or applied them to his own use, is inadmissible. Otherwise as to bills in which the corporation had an interest. This check is different, in circumstances, from anot??er sold to the same bank, which was taken up and cre??ited to the United States' Bank, by the cashier of th?? Bank of Kentucky, mentioned in the same exceptio?? and also a third of $400, bought by the Bank of Ke?? tucky, mentioned in another exception. These two latter drafts became the property of th?? Bank of Kentucky, and if they were placed in the han?? of Pendleton and secreted by him, or applied to h?? own purposes, it was a violation of his official duty, f?? which this action will lie. But not so of the first, ?? which the Bank of Kentucky never had an interest. (23.) The defendants attempted to prove, that t?? notes of the bank which Pendleton was accused of mi?? applying, were depreciated in value at the time, in ??der that the amount might be scaled to the standa?? value of the notes, in rendering the verdict. This te?? timony was rejected. As it does not appear that a?? evidence was introduced and heard, conducing to sho?? that Pendleton had wasted any of the funds, except s?? curities of the bank, which called for money, and not?? of the bank itself, which bound the bank to pay spec?? the exclusion of this evidence was proper and righ?? although the rule might have been different, if it h?? been shown that he had used any other funds of t?? bank which were depreciated. (23) Where the cashier applies to his use securities of the bank, calling for money or notes on the bank, on which it was bound to pay money, he is liable in an action on his bond, for the full nominal amount, and is not allowed to show the notes on the bank so used, were depreciated in value. Otherwise as to other depreciated funds. These two questions are all in the bills of exceptions on the part of the defendants, which we think it necessary to notice. *11 As the judgment must be reversed on one of these points we are led to notice some questions which were made on the part of the plaintiffs below, and decided against them, as we conceive improperly, and which may again occur on another trial. (24.) Before the office of Pendleton terminated, the clerk at the instance of the directors, made out a list of supposed charges against him, for funds not accounted ??for and misapplied, belonging to the bank and present??ed it to Pendleton, who wrote explanations and admissions against every item, and signed his name thereto. This was rejected as improper evidence against the de?? endants, and we are unable to perceive any principle which will uphold this rejection. We only conjecture, that it must have been supposed that the acknowledg??ents and admissions of Pendleton, while he was cash??er, could not bind his sureties. This we cannot admit. They were bound, not for themselves, but for him, and ??is acts and sayings, of course, bound them and they ??ust stand or fall by them. This evidence, therefore, ??ught not to have been rejected. The same may be said ??ith regard to the receipt of Pendleton, as cashier, en??orsed on a replevin bond, which had been assigned to ??he bank, part of which was not brought into the ac??ounts of the bank, or deposited terein. (24) Admission of the cashier of his misapplication of the funds of the bank, made during his continuance in office, and his receipt to a debtor of the bank for money not brought into its accounts, is admissible in an action against him and his securities, on his official bond. (25.) There was also, three hundred dollars, which ??as placed in the hands of the cashier, to the credit of ??enjamin Edwards, as a deposit, given to Pendleton on ??he street, after banking hours were over, in his char??cter as cashier, under his promise to place it to the ??redit of Edwards; also, five hundred and fifteen dol??ars of notes, issued by the branch bank and taken in by ??he mother bank, were placed in the hands of Pendle??on, as cashier of the branch, at the banking house of ??he mother bank, to be carried by him to his branch, ??nd there to be placed to the credit of the mother bank; ??ut which was never accounted for in the branch. These ??ere also offered and rejected, and the only ground on ??hich the rejection took place as hinted in the rec?? rd, is, that these payments were not made at the bank, ??n banking hours, but at other times and places. It is ??rue, the officers of the bank may not be compelled, either to accept or make payment, except in bankin?? hours, and in some cases, at their banking house; but i?? they do so at other times and places, and misapply th?? funds of the bank, we have no doubt they become off?? cially liable, and their sureties must be responsible fo?? such acts. We view a cashier as holding his office a?? every time and place, and if, at any time different fro?? hours of banking, or at places far remote from th?? banking-house, he shall convert the funds of the ban?? to his own use, the institution has a right to recove?? such funds, on his official bond. *12 (25) A cashier holds his office at all times and places, and by misapplying funds delivered to him for the bank, out of business hours and remote from the banking house, violates the condition of his official bond, to faithfully discharge the duties of his office. (26.) We only notice one other question. A not?? made payable and negotiable at the branch, made b?? S. T. Beall and endorsed by Pendleton and another in?? dividual, and held by the Centre Bank of Kentucky?? was deposited in the branch for collection, and when i?? became due, it was not protested for non-payment, an?? notice given, whereby, as was supposed, the endorser?? were discharged, and the Centre Bank claimed th?? amount from the branch, because the cashier, whos?? duty it was, had not had it protested. This note wa?? offered in evidence to charge the cashier and his sur?? ties for the amount, and was rejected. We need no?? determine whether the branch bank could or could no?? make this note its own, by this neglect, when th?? branch acted as agent only, out of mere courtesy. I?? may have been important to the Centre Bank to hav?? this note protested; for if it was discounted by the la?? ter bank, it assumed the grade of a foreign bill of ex?? change, to which a protest in case of non-payment, i?? all important to fix the endorsers. But taking the ord?? nance of the Bank of Kentucky, permitting the depos?? of such notes for collection, as fixing the extent of th?? engagement, it was necessary that the depositor shoul?? previously have deposited the costs of protest; an?? there is no proof that this was done by the Centre Ban?? As it was then necessary to show the liability to th?? Centre Bank complete, on the part of the Bank of Ke?? tucky, before the amount of this note was charge?? against the cashier, the court below, on the state ?? proof, did not err in excluding the item. (26) The bank was not liable for an omission to have a negotiable note deposited by another bank protested for nonpayment and notices given, though it was important to fix the endorsers, unless the costs of protest had been deposited, it appearing an ordinance of the bank required it. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and ve?? dict set aside and the cause be remanded, with dire?? tions for new proceedings, not inconsistent with th?? opinion. Rowan, Bibb and Chapeze, for appellants; B. Hardin, Wickliffe and Crittenden, for appellees. The counsel for the securities of Pendleton, discon??ent with the opinion of the court, on the question of ??he validity of the bond on which the action was found??d, moved the court for a re-hearing on that point, and ??n support of the motion presented the following: JUNE 15. PETITION FOR A RE-HEARING BY G. M. BIBB, ESQ. The counsel for the appellants, most respectfully so??icit the reconsideration of this case, upon one point ??ecided by the court. A bond made to "the president and directors of the ??ank of Kentucky," omitting the "company," is de??lared a good and valid obligation to the corporation. *13 It will be seen at once, by looking at the act of the ??egislature of Kentucky, creating this corporation, ??hat the bond is not to the corporation by its corporate ??ame; that the omission of the word "company," is the ?? mission of a material part, the company being the ??ost numerous of the natural persons composing the ??ody politic--the word "company," including the great ?? ody of the stockholders. The opinion proceeds in affirming this as a good ob??igation to the corporation, and suable in the name of ??he corporation, upon two postulates: 1st. That the variance from the corporate name, by ??mitting the word """"company," is not fatal. 2d. That by a delivery to the president and directors, ??he corporation by the style and name of "the President, Directors and Company of the Bank of Ken?? ucky,"""" can take and sue by an obligation to "the President and Directors of the Bank of Kentucky." As to the first point, that the omission of the word "company," is fatal, the counsel beg leave, most respectfully, to ask the court to examine critically, these cases: Eaton's College case, 2 Dyer 150, a; Croft v. ??owell, Plow. 536-7; Mayor and Burgesses of Lynne,  10 Co. 124; Rex v. Croke, Cowper 26;  Head and Amory v. Providence Insurance Company, 2 Cranch 168-9. In Eaton's College case, above cited, the true name of the corporation was, "Provost and Royal College of the College of the blessed Mary of Eaton," &c. The ??ease was, by the name of the "Provost and Fellows of the Royal College of Eaton," &c. This variance wa?? held fatal and the lease void. 3 and 4 Phil. & Mary, in the years 1557-8. In Croft v. Howell, the true name of the corporatio?? was, "two Masters or Governors and Commonalty o?? the mystery of the Cooks of London," and the deed wa?? by the name of "Masters and Wardens and Commonal?? ty of the craft or mystery of the Cooks of London." The omission of Masters, and putting therefor bu?? one Master, and the omission of the word Governors?? and putting Wardens in place thereof, was, by th?? unanimous opinion of the whole court, declared fatal?? and the deed of said corporation was declared void. In the report of the Mayor and Burgesses of Lynne?? two cases are there cited and acknowledged to be va?? riances in substance, viz. In one case, the corporat?? name was "the King's free chapel," &c. the varianc?? was "the King and Queen's free Chapel," and the leas?? was avoided by the whole court. In another case, th?? name of a corporation was, "the College of Scholars o?? Merton," and they made a lease by the name of "th?? College of Merton," omitting the word "Scholars." This omission was held by the court a variance in substance and the lease was avoided. In the case of Rex v. Croke, before cited, the tru?? authority was, to "the Mayor, Aldermen and Commons?? in common council assembled;" the act done, was by "the Mayor, Commonalty and Citizens," and the ac?? was held void by Lord Mansfield and the whole court. *14 1774. Thus it appears, that from the time of the case i?? ??yer, in 1557, down to the year 1774, the Judges have uniformly decided that a variation in substance from the corporate name was fatal, and avoided the deed. And in all the cases decided between those years whether the variance did or did not avoid the act o?? deed, the question was, whether the variance was in?? substance, or merely in words and syllables. The cases cited and relied on by the counsel for the?? bank are found in the case in 10 Coke 124, before cited?? are all variances, not in substance, as will be seen by?? an attention to those cases. In the cases so cited and?? relied on, the distinction between variances in sub??stance and variance in letters and syllables, merely, is?? acknowledged, and that variance in the substance of?? the corporate name, avoids acts from or to the corpora??tion; but variances in letters and syllables merely, not affecting the substantial descriptive parts of the persons composing the corporation, are not fatal. The counsel feel confident from a diligent examination of very many cases reported and referred to in the before mentioned cases, and in 6 Viner, title Corporation, letter G. that no case can be found where an omission of part of a corporate name, which omission is of a word or words, descriptive of part of the natural persons belonging to the corporation, has not been held fatal. The cases before quoted are from 1557-8 down to 1774, and very many cases are referred to in those cases, in which the principle now contended for by the counsel for Pendleton's securities was acknowledged. The question was always, is the variance substantial or not? Is not the omission of the word "Company," in this obligation, a substantial variance and departure from the corporate name? Does not the "Company," designate, and is it not used in the act of incorporation to include and describe the great body of the natural persons, the stockholders of the Bank?  "The President and Directors" do not include the "Company;" neither does the Company include the President and Directors; for half of the Directors, at the time this obligation bears date, were not necessarily stockholders. II. The opinion supposes, in substance, that by the delivery, the corporation, that is, the "Company," also can take. To this the counsel most respectfully urge, in objection to this part of the opinion of the court, that it assumes premises which cannot be granted or proved as true. 1st. The opinion supposes, that a delivery of a bond or deed can be made to a corporation. This cannot be. A corporation is incorporeal, invisible, intangible, existing only in abstracto; it exists merely in idea and in contemplation of law; its powers and capacities are not natural, but derived from mere act of law. 10 Coke 32 b, Sutton's Hospital;  Head, &c. v. Providence Insurance Company, 2 Cranch 169. It cannot be seen, to make or receive a delivery; it can act only by natural persons. If natural persons receive a paper to the use of the corporation, the effect of that paper must be determined from the paper itself. *15 It cannot do fealty, nor swear, nor make delivery, nor receive livery. See Sutton's Hospital case, 10 Coke 32 b; 13 Viner, faits or deeds, (I.) p. 21, and (K.) p. 22; 6 Viner Corp. (G 2,) p. 268, (G 4,) p. 269. 2dly. The opinion supposes, that by the delivery to the President and Directors, the corporation can take, although their true name and corporate style is not expressed in the obligation; that is, that the "company" (or stockholders who are meant by the word company,) can take, although not named in the deed. This position is not warranted by law, as the counsel most respectfully suggest. "He that is no party to the deed, can neither give nor take anything by it, & c. except it be by way of remainder." 13 Viner, faits or deeds, letter C a, page 53, pla. 15. "One that is not party to a deed made between parties, cannot take by the deed, unless by way of remainder." Viner, supra, pla. 15. "A man cannot take immediately, where he is not party." Viner, supra, pla. 16; Co. Litt. fol. 231 a, note 1. The counsel then urge in conclusion, that a corporation can only act in the manner prescribed to it by its charter. That is to them the enabling act; it gives them all the power they possess; it prescribes to them a mode of contracting; they must observe that mode, or the instrument no more creates a contract with them than if the body had never been incorporated. "The President, Directors and Company of the Bank of Kentucky," cannot take by a bond to "the President and Directors" alone. Upon the principle that corporations can only contract in the mode pointed out to them by law, this court determined in favor of the Madison Hemp Mill Company v. Lovett, and in favor of the Frankfort Bank v. Anderson. Corporations have great privileges and advantages; they ought to take them subject to their inconveniences also. If they can gain by avoiding acts not done in their corporate name, although done by their agents, so they ought to lose by acts to them not taken in their corporate name, although taken by their agents. A re-hearing upon this point is most respectfully requetsed. BIBB, for Appellants. The court after consideration of the question until the present term, overruled the motion for a re-hearing, and in reply to the argument contained in the petition and the authorities there cited, delivered the following OCTOBER 23. ADDtTIONAL OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Notwithstanding the confidence shown by the counsel for the appellants, on the question touching the validity of this bond, because it was executed to the President and Directors, omitting the words "and company," we are still disposed to adhere to our first opinion on this point. The omission of the words, "and company," in a bond to the president, directors and company of the Bank of Kentucky, is not fatal. None of the cases cited are analogous to the present. In all of them a false name or description of the corporation was used. Here the description and name are accurate, so far as they go, and there is an omission only. *16 Cases where a false name for a corporation has been held fatal to the instrument (which was the fact in all those cited in the petition), are not analogous to that wherein the name is right as far as it goes, and there is an omission of part. This court has decided, that a transfer of a bill to the cashier of a bank, officially, vested the legal estate in the bank, where the intention was to pass it to the bank itself.  Farmers and Mechanics' Bank v. Turner, 2 Litt. Rep. 17. All the cases cited are instances of deeds made by corporations, and avoided by them, because not made by the body entitled to grant; and, as observed in a note in Plowden, 536, were cases which might have been aided by a court of equity. In all of them the grantors not being those who were authorized to act, the grants must have been avoided for want of author??ity in the grantors; and on this principle alone can they be sustained. Where corporations have avoided their grants, because not made by the body entitled to grant, (which was also the fact in all the cases cited by the appellants' counsel), the grounds for the avoidance must have been that the grantors were not those authorized to act.--Arg. In 2 Dyer 150 a, and Plowden 536, parts of the cor poration were named as granting, who were not authorized to grant. In 10 Coke 124, the instrument was executed to the corporation, not falsely describing or naming the corporation, but omitting part of the corporate name, and the bond was held good. And in all the cases cited by Coke in the opinion, the grants were made by a misdescribed or false named corporation, who had no authority to grant, and not one is shown, avoiding a grant to a corporation, the name of which was correct, so far as it went, and then making a bare omission of part. The ground taken by the court in the former opinion, is, that such omission may be supplied by averment, and this is well supported by the reasoning of Coke, page 124, where the special verdict found the deed executed to the true corporation, by words, omitting part of the true name. Bond to a corporation, not by a false name, but omitting part of the corporate name, may be supported by averment. The case in Cowper 26, is not in point. That was a direct proceeding to reverse an order made in favor of a corporation falsely described, and therefore cannot apply. Bacon's Abr. title Corporation, letter C. But, however strong these cases may appear, we know their rigid and technical doctrines have been much mitigated by modern authorities, and that the principles now adopted, better comport with sound reason and the maxims of common sense, and that allowing the parties to place the stress of controversy on the intention to whom the deed was executed and delivered, better answers the ends of justice, and does not entangle it in a "net of forms." The ends of justice are better answered by placing instruments in which corporations are not correctly named, on the intention with which they were executed and delivered--Arg. *17 We are, however, told that no delivery can be made by or to a corporation. The cases cited in 13 Viner 21, do not support this assumption. A corporation can give livery according to these authorities. To say that no delivery can be made to a corporation, or some thing equivalent thereto, would be going far indeed, and would entitle it by the bare act of sealing, to every deed or grant which purported on its face to be made to it by its true name, although the grantor might retain the deed in his possession, and never do any act placing the instrument in the hands of any of the officers of the corporation. A corporation may receive the delivery of a deed, or what is equivalent. The petition for a re-hearing is, therefore, overruled. Ky.App. 1824. Pendleton v. Bank of Kentucky 1 T.B.Mon. 171, 17 Ky. 171, 1824 WL 1522 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
