(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 78,  22 Ky. 78 (Ky.),  1827 WL 1635 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Miles, &c. v. Rankin and Knight. Oct. 23, 1827. *1 Parties. Principal and Sureties. Gaming. ERROR TO THE SHELBY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Principal and Surety 309 k 172 309 Principal and Surety 309V Rights and Remedies of Surety 309V(A) As to Creditor 309k172 k. Actions Against Creditor. Most Cited  Cases A surety on a replevin bond cannot be relieved from his obligation on the ground that the note on which the judgment was recovered was founded on a gaming consideration, without making his principal a party. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. The complainants below filed their bill, alleging that they were securities in a replevin bond for Benjamin Logan, and that they had discovered that the note on which the judgment at law was obtained, was given for money won at gaming, by the original payee of Logan, and by him assigned to the defendant Charles Miles, and they pray relief against the replevin bond, which was granted by the decree of the court below; and to reverse that decree this writ of error is prosecuted. Principal may be relieved against judgments on the ground of the consideration recovered upon without uniting his surety, but the surety can not maintain his bill in such case, without making the principal a party. It is assigned for error, that Logan, the principal, was not made a party to the bill. We conceive this error is well assigned. A court of equity frequently indulges principals in obtaining relief, and in permitting them to relieve themselves and their sureties, without making the sureties parties; but the converse of this rule, in case of joint demands and joint rights, and especially in a case where that which goes to relieve the sureties, equally operates to discharge the principal, can not be allowed. In such case, the principal must be brought in, and we recollect of no case, where he has been dispensed with. The decree is reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill with costs, and without prejudice to a future suit, unless the principal is, by appropriate amendment, brought before the court in a reasonable time, to be fixed for that purpose in the court below. Mayes, for plaintiffs; Denny, for defendants. Ky.App. 1827. Miles v. Rankin 6 T.B.Mon. 78, 22 Ky. 78, 1827 WL 1635 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
