(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 77,  19 Ky. 77 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1200 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Peyton v. Moseley. Nov. 17, 1825. *1 Justices of the Peace. Jurisdiction. Bail. Recognizances. Seals. Construction. Statutes. ERROR TO THE OHIO CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 85 231 Justices of the Peace 231IV Procedure in Civil Cases 231k85 k. Arrest and bail. Most Cited Cases Justices can issue scire facias on recognizances of special bail taken in cases before them, and give judgment for execution. Statutes 361 k 1501(1) 361 Statutes 361VII Repeal 361k1498 Implied Repeal 361k1501 By Statute Relating to Same Subject 361k1501(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 361k161(2)) The statutes enacted at the same session are to be construed as one entire act, and to make a latter provision repeal a former, there must be an express declaration, or absolute inconsistency. Bail 49 k 11 49 Bail 49I In Civil Actions 49k9 Bond, Undertaking, or Recognizance 49k11 k. Requisites and validity in general. Most Cited  Cases The want of a seal to a bail bond is fatal. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the facts. The defendant in error held a note, of the amount of $48.85, on a certain Edward Dawes. On the 17th February, 1821, he issued a warrant thereon from a justice of the peace, requiring bail, and the plaintiff in error became special bail for Dawes. He then issued a capias ad satisfaciendum on his judgment, dated the 1st of August, 1821, which was returned, "not levied, by order of the plaintiff." On the 5th of November, 1821, he issued a second ca. sa. turnable, and actually returned, on the fourth Monday of December, 1821, with a return endorsed, "not found." In January, 1823, he issued from the same justice a summons in the nature of a scire facias, against the plaintiff in error, as the bail, and on the return thereof, the justice gave judgment against the bail, that the defendant in error have execution for the demand. Judgment of the justice of the peace. From this last judgment the bail appealed to the circuit court, and on the trial there, the evidence being all contained in the record of the justice of the peace, it was submitted to the court without the intervention of a jury, and that court again gave judgment against the bail, to reverse which this writ of error with supersedeas is prosecuted. Judgment of the circuit court. On this record the following questions present themselves: The questions stated. 1st. Do the acts of assembly increasing the jurisdiction of justices of the peace to the amount of fifty dollars, by necessary inference, vest in justices the power and jurisdiction to coerce recognizances of special bail taken on their warrants, or do these recognizances create an obligation that must be enforced by some other tribunal? *2 2d. Is this recognizance valid, not being sealed by by the bail, under our statutes? The acts which increased the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, direct bail to be taken on warrants and prescribe the form thereof. But they are silent as the mode of making the bail responsible. Of course the recognizance of special bail so taken, must be a dead letter, or the party entitled to its benefit must sue thereon in the circuit courts, or the justices must have the jurisdiction for the purpose of effectuating it. The first of these positions is wholly inadmissible. The idea can not be for a moment indulged, that the Legislature authorized the requisition of bail, for the want of which the debtor might be imprisoned, and yet intended that the obligation of the bail, when given, should be a nullity. Such a proceeding would be trifling with the freedom of the citizen, and torturing him by an arrest for no purpose. The intention then certainly was, that the recognizance of the bail so taken, should have in all respects the same force and effect as such recognizances had before the jurisdiction was given to justices of the peace. The statutes increasing the jurisdiction of justices to $50 give them jurisdiction to issue scire faciases on recognizances of special bail taken in cases before them, and to give judgment for execution. We also suppose the intention of the Legislature to be equally clear, that suit must not be brought on such recognizances in the circuit court. No mention is made of any translation of the record to the circuit court, except by appeal, in which case the recognizance might, no doubt, be enforced by the circuit court. The expressions of the first act conferring this jurisdiction, read thus: "Hereafter, justices of the peace in the several counties in this Commonwealth, shall have original jurisdiction of all debts and accounts not exceeding fifty dollars." 2 Dig. L. K., 701. An act of the next succeeding session reads thus: "The justices of the peace in this Commonwealth shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all sums not exceeding fifty dollars, founded on any specialty, bill, or note in writing, or account." 2 Dig. L. K. 704. Extracts from the statutes giving the jurisdiction. Here are ample grants of jurisdiction, and, ex vi termini, the word jurisdiction carries with it the right to proceed throughout, and to effectuate any judgment, sentence or obligation belonging to the record, according to the forms and rules of law; and, of course, it necessarily follows, that a justice of the peace has power to summon the bail, to ascertain whether the contingency has happened on which the bail would be liable and fixed, and to render judgment that the plaintiff have execution against the bail, and issue it accordingly. This translation of jurisdiction over questions of law so abstruse to justices of the peace, may be attended with some hazard to the rights of the parties. But this is a question of expediency only, with which this court has nothing to do. *3 Jurisdiction in the statutes, ex vi termini, carries with it the right to effectuate every judgment, sentence or obligation belonging to the record, according to the forms and rules of law. As to the second point, whether this recognizance is valid without a seal, or a scrawl annexed in lieu of a seal, the act conferring the jurisdiction, before cited, gives the form of the recognizance in express words, and concludes it thus, "witness my hand and seal." It is clear, therefore, that the Legislature intended that all such recognizances, taken by constables, should have a seal annexed, and there is no power in the officer executing the warrant to dispense with it; and a recognizance without such seal can not be enforced by a scire facias. Recognizance of bail taken by a constable under the act of 1812, 2 Dig. L. K. 701, is invalid without a seal___notwithstanding the act of the same session raising the dignity of unsealed instruments. It is, however, insisted that at the same session, and a few days afterwards, the Legislature, while regulating civil proceedings, passed an act with the following provision, and that thereby a seal to such recognizance as this, is entirely dispensed with: "All writings hereafter executed, without a seal or seals, stipulating for the payment of money or property, or for the performance of any act or acts, duty or duties, shall be placed upon the same footing with sealed writings containing the like stipulations, receiving the same consideration in all courts of justice, and to all intents and purposes, having the same force and effect, and upon which the same species of action may be founded, as if sealed." It is true, as observed by the court below, the expressions of this latter act are very broad, and if it had not passed at the same session with the former, it might, by the ordinary rules of construction, be held to be a repeal of the former, pro tanto. But with regard to acts of the same session, we apprehend that the rules of construction are somewhat different. When they are compared together, they ought to be construed as one act on the same subject; and the presumption of so sudden a change or revolution in the minds of the Legislature, ought not to be indulged. There ought to be an express repeal, or an absolute inconsistency between the two provisions, to authorize a court to say that the latter had repealed the former. If both these provisions were in the same act, both must have effect if possible. Hence the conclusion would be, that the recognizance directed to be taken with a seal, in which the bail stipulated for the performance of the principal, ought to be held as an exception to the general provision which dispensed with a seal. According to this rule, this recognizance is invalid, and no judgment ought to have been rendered thereon. In the construction of the acts of the same session, the whole is taken as one act, and to make a latter provision repeal a former, there must be an express declaration or absolute inconsistency. *4 The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, with directions to enter judgment for the defendant below, with costs. Taul for plaintiff; Crittenden for defendant. Ky.App. 1825. Peyton v. Moseley 3 T.B.Mon. 77, 19 Ky. 77, 1825 WL 1200 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
