(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 225,  10 Ky. 225 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1040 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Steele's Heirs v. Wm. Taylor. Apr. 5, 1821. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE HENRY CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(6) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(6) k. Patents. Most Cited Cases A mistake in the calls of a patent may be corrected by reference to the plat and certificate of survey. The survey is a matter of record, and of equal dignity with the patent. Boundaries 59 k 36(3) 59 Boundaries 59II Evidence, Ascertainment, and Establishment 59k34 Admissibility of Evidence 59k36 Documentary Evidence 59k36(3) k. Maps and Plats. Most Cited  Cases Defects or omissions in the description of a tract of land as given in a patent, may be corrected by reference to the original plat and certificate of survey. THE CHIEF JUSTICE DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Judge Mills. This was an ejectment, and was formerly before this court upon an appeal taken by the lessor of the plaintiff, from a judgment rendered for the defendants, which was there revived because the circuit court had, under the circumstances of the case, improperly instructed the jury, that the right of entry of the lessor of the plaintiff, was tolled by the descent cast upon the defendants, by the death of their ancestor; 1 Marshall, 315. On the trial, after the cause was remanded to the circuit court, the only question which was made, grows out of a variance in the description of the land claimed by the lessor of the plaintiff, as contained in the original plat and certificate of survey and the patent under which he derives title. The plat and certificate of survey, describes the tract with four lines and corners, and lines and corners corresponding with the lines and corners of the survey, were found plainly marked, except at the place where the second corner of the survey is described to be, there was no marked corner found. But the patent calls for only three lines and corners, omitting the call for the second corner, as described by the certificates of survey, and the course and distance from thence to the third corner. The counsel for the defendants contended that the lessor of the plaintiff, could recover under his patent, no more land than was embraced in the triangle formed by extending a line from the beginning to the third corner, as described in the survey, and running from thence with the two remaining lines to the beginning; and moved the court so to instruct the jury; but the court overruled the motion, and instructed the jury, to find agreeably to the calls of the survey. To that opinion of the court, the defendants excepted; and a verdict and judgment having been rendered against them, they have appealed to this court. We have no doubt, that the circuit court decided correctly. If the lessor of the plaintiff had a right to resort to the original plat and certificate of survey, for the purpose of supplying the defect or omission in the description of the tract contained in the patent, there is no difficulty in the case, and we can perceive no principle which would be violated, in permitting them to do so. The survey is matter of record of equal dignity with the patent itself, is referred to by the patent, and is the only source from which the description of the boundaries contained in the patent, was originally taken. But supposing the certificate of survey could not be resorted to, for the purpose of supplying the defect of the description contained in the patent, still it would be legitimate evidence of the true position of the lines and corners as actually made, and when the lines and corners as actually made, are ascertained, they have always been considered to be the true boundaries of the tract, though they should vary in some respects, from the description of them in the patent. Besides, the description given in the patent in this case, is not more at variance with the boundaries, as designated by the certificate of survey, than it is with the boundaries of the triangular figure contended for by the defendants in the court below. For, to run a line from the beginning, so as to form the triangle, would vary widely, both in course and distance, from that which is described in the patent, and the quantity of land contained in the triangle is one-half less than the quantity called for by the patent. *2 A mistake in the calls of a patent may be corrected by a reference to the plat and certificate of survey, and is evidence of the original position of the corners, and where they can be ascertained they form the boundary though variant from the description contained in the patent. The judgment must be affirmed with cost. Hardin, for appellant; Bibb, for appellee. Ky.App. 1821. Steele's Heirs v. Taylor 3 A.K.Marsh. 225, 10 Ky. 225, 1821 WL 1040 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 151 END OF DOCUMENT
