(Cite as: 6 T.B.Mon. 616,  22 Ky. 616 (Ky.),  1828 WL 1191 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lampton v. Lampton's Ex'ors. Apr. 10, 1828. *1 Witnesses. Executors. Judgments. Distributees. Answer in Chancery. Creditors. Executions. APPEAL FROM THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT; JOHN P. OLD HAM, JUDGE. West Headnotes Witnesses 410 k 85 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k82 Parties of Record in Civil Actions and  Proceedings 410k85 k. Representative or Official Capacity. Most  Cited Cases An executor cannot be a witness in an action against him as such. OPINION OF THE COURT BY JUDGE MILLS. This is an action of debt against the executors of Lampton, on a promissory note, made by the testator, and on its face negotiable at bank. Debt against the executor, on a promissory note of the intestate. The issue to be tried was, whether the note was not lent by the testator to the plaintiff to be negotiated in bank to raise money, if the bank would discount it, and if it would not, to be returned to the testator, or in other words, whether the note was, or was not, made for a particular purpose, which not being answered, was to be of no force, and therefore, delivered on a consideration which failed. Special plea and issue. One of the executors who was a defendant, was tendered as a witness for the defendants, after showing that they had no other proof in their power to the same facts, which transpired in the lifetime of the testator. They had not the most remote interest in the estate which he represented, by the will or descent, save as executor, and a party to the suit to reach the estate, and make it liable in his hands. The court admitted him as a witness, and the jury found for defendants, and to reverse the judgment rendered on this verdict, this writ of error is prosecuted, and the sole question is the competency of the executor. Before he was sworn, he released all claims against the estate for his services as executor. One of the executor's defendants offered as a witness for defendants, and admitted, and the question now is on his competency. An executor for a long time was, ex officio, entitled to the residuum after payment of legacies, and thus was interested by supplying the place of a residuary legatee. This interest is, however, long since taken away by act of assembly, which compels him to account for this residuum to the next of kin, and gives him no right to any part of the estate qua executor. Executor formerly entitled to the residuum, after the legacies, but is now compelled to distribute the surplus. Afterwards an executor defendant remained liable for costs out of his own estate on a deficiency of assets, and the entries of judgments thus charged him. This also, in this State, is taken away by act of assembly, and judgments for costs are now rendered to be levied of the assets in his hands alone, and in no possible case with proper management, can an executor become liable to more than the assets which comes to his hands, and these he is bound to pay over to the next of kin, if they are not bequeathed, after he shall save therefrom the demands of creditors. Nothing can remain in his hands except compensation for his services. *2 Executor was formerly liable to costs if the assets were deficient, not so now. It is laid down in all the books, that a party to a suit at common law, can not be a witness, and some have said that this rule is universal. No party to an action at law can be a witness. But jurists are not entirely agreed as to the reason of the rule, some alleging that it is on the score of interest, and others, that the rule is based on a principle of policy, and to avoid the danger of perjury. Starkie in his treatise on evidence, 3 vol. pa. 1061, states that the rule is not founded merely on the consideration of interest, for if it was, it would follow, that a party might always be called by his adversary to give evidence against his own interest; the rule is partly, at least, founded on the principle of policy for the prevention of perjury. A pertinent remark by the editor in a note, defeats the reason, by noticing that either party might be put to his oath, and made a witness in equity against himself, where he was quite as likely to commit perjury as in a suit at law. Other authorities quoted in the notes of the same book, and especially one from 1 Peters' Rep. 307-- states the foundation of the rule to be the interest in the costs, or subject of dispute, and many instances are quoted where the American courts have admitted parties, where they could not be supposed to have any interest; yet the conclusion of the note recommends an adherence to the rule. We can not divest ourselves of the belief, that the rule took its rise in the interest of the party, when attempted to be used in his own favor, and in a disposition not to compel him to furnish his adversary with weapons against himself, when impleaded and resisting the demand. It would therefore seem to follow, that if a party could be found without any possible interest to gain or jeopardise by the event of the suit, he ought to be sworn. As to the bias which he may have to tempt him to commit perjury, modern decisions lean much to let that go to the credibility of the witness only, and not to his competency. We are frequently in the habit of admitting the depositions of defendants as witnesses in our chancery suits. Reason of the rule against the competency of the testimony of a party in an action at law--is his interest in the matter. This court has also decided, that the defendant in an execution is a competent witness to prove property seized under that execution not to belong to himself. In that case he is a party to the record, and although he is not admitted on the trial before judgment, yet he is admitted after judgment by deposing as a witness, to disturb the operation of the execution, which is the life of the law, and thereby to affect the interest of his adversary as vitally as he could do if sworn before judgment. The rule, therefore, is often virtually, and sometimes literally violated, where interest is supposed to be wanting. We have no hesitation in saying, that in every case, where a party in a remote degree, represents his own interest in a suit, the rule ought to be strictly adhered to. But when his own interest is not in any degree involved, there may be cases where the rule ought to be relaxed. *3 Defendant in an execution is competent to prove the property seized is not his, but the property of a third person claiming it. From this conclusion, as to the reason of rejecting or admitting parties, it might at first be supposed that this witness ought to have been admitted. An executor can not be a witness in an action against him as such, because in a subsequent action against him for a devastavit, the verdict and judgment against him as executor, would be evidence to charge him personally. But there is a contingency depending on the verdict and judgment, in which the personal interest of the witness may be deeply involved. It is true, that if by his swearing, he could save that portion of the estate in dispute, he would be bound to pay it to the distributees. But his accountability to creditors depends on their being able to obtain judgments against him. The first judgment is obtained against the fund in his hands, and it is indispensable evidence against him in all further proceedings for the same demand. If he fails to pay the judgment when pursued by execution, he is liable to an action for a devastavit. If the first judgment can not be obtained because his own oath prevents it, he thereby saves himself from all liability personally in the second, and it is a general rule, that no person ought to be a witness in any case where the verdict and judgment can be given in evidence for or against him in any future controversy. Here the judgment, if obtained, would be evidence against him, in a proceeding where he may become personally liable, and his testimony is calculeted to relieve him from the danger of that evidence. It may be somewhat uncertain whether there would be an occasion to use the judgment against him hereafter, but his competence does not depend upon the certainty of using the evidence against him hereafter, but on the certainty that it may be used, if it should be wanting. Uncertainty of such subsequent suit, is immaterial. Hence it is said, that a residuary legatee shall not be a witness against the plaintiff in a suit brought to charge the estate with a debt, although it appears that the estate is so much expended, that there will be no residuum. Residuary legatee not competent for the executor tho' it appear, there can be no residuum. If the issue here was on the plea of plene administravit, it could not be plausibly contended that the executor would be a competent witness in a court of law, in favor of himself, to verify the rectitude of his own acts. According to our code, that issue may be made up hereafter on this same demand, if the plaintiff never succeeds; but such an issue can never be formed, if the testimony of the executor be admitted to defeat the whole claim. Every executor guarantees the correct management of the estate he administers, by binding his own estate. It is the security that he will pay the debts, and if his oath is admitted to defeat these debts, then his estate is relieved pro tanto from the pledge. *4 Question of assets or not, how determined. It may be said that his estate is also bound to the distributee, that he will pay to him the same fund, and that the legatee, or distributee may implead him in equity, where the executor may be a witness. To this it may be replied, that in equity by answer, he is a witness only to deny affirmative allegations, which serves no other purpose than putting the allegations in issue, and requiring a greater degree of proof, and if he inserts affirmative matter in his answer, the answer in this point proves nothing. If he admits affirmative allegations, which he is called upon to admit, he is then only the witness of the complainant, who requires, or compels him to be come a witness, and here he is offered as a witness in invitum. Could he then be imposed as a witness by way of deposition in a chancery suit brought by the legatees, and prove that their legacies were discharged already? It is presumed not, and that is a case more analogous to the present. Answer of an execution to the bill of a distributee, so far as it contains new affirmative matter, is not evidence for him. He is then no witness against either creditor or legatee, to prove that they have no claims at all against the fund in his hands, while his own estate is pledged to pay the fund to those entitled thereto. It would be improper to permit him to prove that they have no title. If he should thus be permitted to disprove the claims, it places a strong tempation of interest to defeat all claims both of legatees and creditors, and by his own swearing, and thus shield, not only his proper estate, but also keep the estate of his testator in his hands. Executor is not a competent witness against either the legatees or creditors, to disprove their claims. If he was plaintiff, there might be greater doubt on the point, but as he is defendant and his oath is offered to defeat a claimant from recovering a debt out of the trust fund, which he has bound himself personally to pay, if the fund is sufficient, and the claim just, we apprehend he ought not to be admitted, and that the court erred in letting in his testimony. Query, of executors competency in an action by him as executor. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and verdict set aside, and cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Judgment for new trial. Denny, for appellant; Duncan, for appellee. Ky.App. 1828. Lampton v. Lampton's Ex'rs 6 T.B.Mon. 616, 22 Ky. 616, 1828 WL 1191 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
