(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 121,  17 Ky. 121 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1506 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hancock and Gore's Heirs v. Hancock. Oct. 15, 1824. *1 Specific Execution, Covenants for Land, Practice. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Specific Performance 358 k 17 358 Specific Performance 358I Nature and Grounds of Remedy in General 358k17 k. Persons Entitled to Enforce Performance. Most Cited Cases Where the obligor of a bond for the conveyance of land conveys different land to his obligee, to the prejudice of the covenantee of the latter, the chancellor may, on the bill of said covenantee, compel the first to convey to the second, and the second to the complainant. Specific Performance 358 k 111 358 Specific Performance 358IV Proceedings and Relief 358k111 k. Surveys. Most Cited Cases Where, in an action to compel a conveyance of land, it is uncertain how much and what land should be conveyed to the complainant, and the defect of proof is not of a nature to warrant a dismissal of the bill, a survey should be ordered. Equity 150 k 423 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k423 k. Nature and Extent of Relief in General. Most Cited Cases Where a conveyance is decreed on payment of money, it is erroneous to direct the money to be tendered, and a conveyance made in pais. These matters should be settled on the record, under the eye of the court. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS. Statement of the case. This bill is brought for the conveyance of a small piece of land, for which John Hancock gave his bond to the complainant, being part of one hundred acres for which Gore, who held the legal estate gave his bond to said James Hancock. Gore also gave his bond for one hundred acres to the complainant, and the bond of James Hancock to the complainant, is for that part of James Hancock's land, which lies between the lines of the complainant and Steele's branch, which quantity is declared by the bond on which the bill is filed, to be uncertain and unknown. The heirs of Gore answer, stating that their ancestor had tendered a conveyance in his lifetime to James Hancock, and that since his death, and since the filing of this bill, and before the service of process, they have conveyed to James Hancock and taken in the bond of their ancestor, which is filed in another suit in the same court, but does not appear in this. Witnesses prove that they know the objects called for in the bond from Gore to James Hancock; but there is no survey in the cause exhibiting there objects, and the court certifies that the survey filed was rejected, and it composes no part of the record, and it is, accordingly not copied in the record before us, yet the decree is by metes and bounds. Whether these metes and bounds compose any part of the land sold by Gore to either the complainant or James Hancock, or whether they contain a part of the land conveyed to James Hancock by the heirs of Gore, or any part of the land for which the legal title is in Gore's heirs, is wh??lly uncertain, and as far as we can ascertain the bounds of the decree, they are arbitrarily fixed by the chancellor, we know not where, and although the chancellor states the quantity of land in the decree, there is not the least proof of that quantity in the record. *2 (1.) The decree is not only against James Hancock, who gave his bond to convey to the complainant, but also against the heirs of Gore, who have already conveyed to James Hancock. It is clear, that if the heirs of Gore have conveyed to James Hancock the land which they were bound to convey by their ancestor's bond, they have nothing to do with this controversy. (1) The covenantor to convey land, is bound to convey to his covenantee only, not to another to whom the latter sells a part. If, on the contrary, as the bill seems to insinuate, the heirs of Gore and James Hancock have by the conveyance to the latter, changed the position of the land, and left out land which the bond to James Hancock covered, and also covered by the bond of James Hancock to the complainant, it was competent for the chancellor to set the matter right and to fix the land to its ancient position, and then if Gore's heirs had not already conveyed it to James Hancock, to compel them to do so, and he to convey to the complainant, and this is the course that the chancellor ought to have pursued. If the covenantor to convey, combine with his covenantee, and convey him different land, to the prejudice of the covenantee of the latter, the chancellor will, on the bill of this third person, compel the first to convey to the second, and the second to complainant. (2.) It is a case where the complainant has made out a title to some relief against James Hancock, and eventual relief against Gore's heirs, if it should be found that they, by combination with said James, have changed the position of the land, and yet hold the legal estate on the ground as formerly described. But the extent and position of that relief, cannot be ascertained from the proof, and the defect of proof is of that nature, as not to warrant a dismission of the bill, but might have been supplied by a surveyor or commissioner, as decided by this court in the case of  Farmer and Arnold v. Samuel, 4 Litt. Rep. 187. The position of the two bonds executed by Gore to Hancock, ought to be thus ascertained, and that would give the land included in the bond of James Hancock to the complainant, and would also, discover whether the deed of Gore's heirs to James Hancock, embraces the ground included in Gore's bond to him. (2) Where the complainant shows himself entitled to the conveyance of land from one defendant, but to what land and how much, is uncertain, and on the position of the land depends the relief sought against another defendant, the chancellor ought not to dismiss the bill as to either, but order a survey or appoint a commissioner. (3.) There, is also, another objection to the decree. There was a balance due from the complainant to James Hancock, which depends in amount upon the quantity of land, and the court below having fixed the quantity, without a survey and without proof, directed the money to be tendered and the conveyance made in pais, when these maters ought to be settled on record, under the eye of the court, as was held in the case before cited, and other cases. *3 (3) Where land is to be conveyed upon the payment of money, the chancellor can not direct the transaction to be closed in pais, but it must be settled under the eye of the court. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs and the cause be remanded with directions there to entertain such proceedings, and render such decree as may not be inconsistent with this opinion. Monroe, for plaintiffs; Sharp, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Hancock v. Hancock 1 T.B.Mon. 121, 17 Ky. 121, 1824 WL 1506 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 92 END OF DOCUMENT
