(Cite as: 3 A.K.Marsh. 365,  10 Ky. 365 (Ky.),  1821 WL 1098 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. James Trotter v. Michael Cassady et al. Apr. 21, 1820. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE FLEMING CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 100(1) 20 Adverse Possession 20II Operation and Effect 20II(A) Extent of Possession 20k99 Possession Under Color of Title 20k100 Constructive Possession in  General 20k100(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a junior patentee entered upon a part of the land in dispute more than 20 years before the suit, and afterwards sold such part by metes and bounds, and did not enter on the other part, it was held that his possession was restricted to those metes and bounds. JUDGE MILLS DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This is an ejectment for land, in favor of an elder patent against a younger one. The boundaries of both were clearly established, and that the former included the latter, and that the tenants resided on the junior patent at the commencement of the suit. The tenants relied on an adverse possession for twenty years. It appeared that the owner of the junior grant sold one corner of his patent to another individual, who settled thereon and made an improvement;--that the contract for sale was then rescinded, and the junior patentee then took back the land and settled a tenant thereon, and while the tenant remained there, the owner again sold a portion of the same tract to a Mr. Howe, including the improvement of the tenant, and that Howe settled thereon upwards of twenty years before the commencement of this suit; and shortly after his settlement, but within the twenty years, the owner of the junior patent demarked to Howe his quantity in the corner of the survey, which demarkation defined Howe's possession, which he yet holds according to the boundary. It further appeared, that after the demarkation to Howe, no person, for some years, lived on or held an actual enclosure on the remaining part of the junior patent, for which alone this action is brought, and that it remained in this situation till about fifteen years previous to the commencement of this action, when the junior grantee parcelled it out by sales to the present tenants, who reside thereon. The junior patentee himself resided on another larger patent adjoining his patent now in contest at one corner, more than twenty years before the commencement of this suit, and until this time; but it does not appear that he had any actual close within the bounds of the elder patent, and the contrary is to be inferred from the record. The counsel for the defendants below, moved the court to instruct the jury, that under the aforesaid circumstances, the right of entry of the lessor of the plaintiff in the lands in controversy, (being the residue of the junior grant, exclusive of Howe's possession), was tolled and his right of recovery barred by the adverse possession of the defendants and the act of limitations. The counsel for plaintiff opposed this instruction, and prayed counter instructions, insisting that at the period of time which elapsed between the demarkation to Howe and the entry of the present tenants the statute could not run. The court below gave the instruction as prayed for by the defendants, and the jury found a verdict for them accordingly, and from this decision the plaintiff has appealed. *2 To make the bar of twenty years' possession operative and effectual, to destroy a right of entry, it is necessary that the possession, claimed as adverse, should be shewn to be continued and uninterrupted. Or, in other words, if there is any period, during the twenty years, in which the person having the right of entry could not find an occupant on the land on whom he could bring and sustain his ejectment, that period can not be counted against him as part of the twenty years. For it would be absurd to suppose that a bar was progressing against him, at a moment when the law afforded him no action. After the demarkation to Howe, and until the entry of the present tenants, we can not conceive that the lessor of the plaintiff could have sustained his action against any person for the land in controversy. Had he sued Howe, he could only have recovered from him his possession, limited as it was. The junior patentee might have been admitted to defend Howe, but still the recovery would not thereby have been extended. Had he, during this period, brought his ejectment against the owner of the younger grant, he could not have proved the actual enclosure of that patentee within the bounds of his own patent, and of course could not have recovered, according to the decision of this court in the case of Kimble against  Smith, &c., 4 Bibb, 257. For twenty years' possession of a junior patentee to toll the right of entry of the elder, the possession must be uninterrupted. A junior patentee entering on a part of the disputed territory more than twenty years before suit brought, and selling the land entered on by metes and bounds, and not entering on any other part of the dispute till within twenty years, is such an interruption of possession as will prevent the bar, the ancient entry by the sale with limits, is confined to those limits. At the same moment there was no other tenant occupying the land in controversy, against whom an action could have been sustained. As this interruption of possession, then, succeeded during the aforesaid period over the whole land now in suit, that period ought not to be counted, as part of the twenty years, and it conclusively follows, that the court below erred in giving the instruction required by the defendant, and in refusing those demanded by the plaintiff. The decision of the court below must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings accordant with this opinion. Bibb, for plaintiff; Wickliffe, for defendant in error. Ky.App. 1820. Trotter v. Cassady 3 A.K.Marsh. 365, 10 Ky. 365, 1821 WL 1098 (Ky.), 13 Am.Dec. 183 END OF DOCUMENT
