(Cite as: 2 Bibb 262,  5 Ky. 262 (Ky.),  1810 WL 726 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Crews v. Williams, etc. Fall Term, 1810. *1 A debt due from testator, cannot be set off against a demand accruing to executor after the death of the testator. Where the executor has disbursed the whole of the assets, equity will not make the executor answerable upon a verbal agreement to set off the demand accruing to him as executor against a debt due from the testator. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 96 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k95 Contracts 162k96 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 11 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185II Promises by Executors or Administrators 185k11 k. Answering Out of Promisor's Own Estate. Most Cited Cases Where the executor has disbursed the whole of the assets, equity will not make him answerable upon a verbal agreement to set off the demand accruing to him as executor against a debt due from the testator. Executors and Administrators 162 k 434(2) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k434 Set-Off and Counterclaim 162k434(1) In Actions by Executors and Administrators 162k434(2) k. As Between Debts Arising Before, and  Those Accruing After Death of Decedent. Most Cited Cases A judgment obtained against executors upon a convenant executed by the testator in his lifetime cannot be set off against a judgment obtained by the executors upon a bond executed to them as executors since the death of the testator. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THE plaintiff in error brought his bill to compel the defendants to set off a judgment obtained by him against them as executors of William Todd, deceased, upon a covenant executed by Todd in his lifetime, against a judgment obtained by them, against him upon a bond executed to them as executors, since the death of said Todd; in which he alleges that the bond on which they had obtained a judgment was given by him for property purchased of the executors of the estate of Todd; that at the time he made the purchase he held Todd's deed of covenant, upon which he afterward prosecuted suit and obtained a judgment; that it was agreed between him and the executors that he should be allowed the amount due from Todd to him, as a setoff to the bond he had given them, when a final settlement should be made; that they had refused either to pay the amount of his judgment or allow it by way of setoff against theirs. The answer denies the agreement that one demand should be set off against the other, and states that they had fully administered the estate of their testator at the time the plaintiff instituted his suit at law. *2 On a final hearing the inferior Court dismissed the bill with costs, to which the plaintiff prosecutes this writ of error. Considering this case abstracted from the agreement set forth in the bill, that one debt should be set off against the other, the decree of the Circuit Court is evidently correct: for it is a well settled principle, that where an executor sues for a cause of action arising after the death of the testator, the defendant cannot set off a debt due to him from the deceased in his lifetime--Willis 103, Burton v. Chinn, administrator. Hard. 252. For if setsoff of that nature were permitted, it would frequently alter the course of distribution, and subject the executors to a devastavit, as by that means debts of an inferior dignity would be frequently discharged before debts of a superior degree. Considering this cause with reference to the agreement, the case will not be altered. The agreement was by parol, and cannot bind the executors to pay the debt out of their own estate; it could only bind the estate of their testator, and not then, unless there was sufficient to pay all the debts of a superior or equal dignity. When this promise should have been made, the estate was insufficient for the payment of the debts; the promise then was without consideration, and such as a Court of Chancery will not enforce. The defendants, as appears from the proof in this cause, have paid debts of their testator to a much larger amount than the assets which have come to their hands, and had at the time the plaintiff commenced his action at law actually disbursed the whole amount of assets, except L1 11s, 6d., as appears by the verdict of the jury. There is no principle of morality upon which the Circuit Court could have decreed one judgment to have been set off against the other; for the defendants having advanced more than they had assets in their hands, became creditors to that amount: as the law had given them the advantage, their equity being equal, a Court of Chancery could not interfere.-- Decree affirmed. Ky.App. 1810. Crews v. Williams 2 Bibb 262, 5 Ky. 262, 1810 WL 726 (Ky.), 4 Am.Dec. 701 END OF DOCUMENT
