(Cite as: 4 Bibb 526,  7 Ky. 526 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1085 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Garrant v. Woods, etc. Apr. 24, 1817. *1 A power of attorney acknowledged and recorded in a County Court in Virginia, and admitted to record in this State. upon the certificate of the clerk. without the seal of the State or county being affixed thereto, is not a sufficient authentication, and a copy of such record is not good evidence. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 373(1) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k373 Form and Sufficiency in  General 157k373(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A power of attorney acknowledged and recorded in a county court in Virginia, and admitted to record in Kentucky, upon the certificate of the clerk, without the seal of the state or county being affixed thereto, was held not to be sufficiently authenticated. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of ejectment, on the trial of which the defendant, for the purpose of showing that the lessor of the plaintiff had parted with his title, offered in evidence a copy of a power of attorney purporting to have been executed by the lessor of the plaintiff, a resident of Buckingham county, and State of Virginia, to Thomas Mosby, and also a copy of a deed from Mosby to Green Clay, purporting to have been executed in virtue of the power of attorney. To the reading of the copy of the power of attorney, the counsel for the plaintiff objected, because it was but a copy, and because the original did not appear to have been admitted to record upon the requisite evidence of its execution. But the Court below overruled the objection, and permitted the copy to be used in evidence; to which the plaintiff excepted. If it had appeared that the original had been admitted to record upon the evidence which the law requires in such a case, we should have no doubt that the copy might with propriety have been read in evidence; but this does not appear to be the case in this instance. Upon the copy admitted in evidence by the Court below, the clerk of the County Court of Madison certified that the original was admitted to record in his office, upon the certificate of the clerk of the County Court of Buckingham county, and State of Virginia, that the lessor of the plaintiff had acknowledged the same in that Court. But in order to have justified its admission to record in a Court of this country, there should have been affixed thereto the seal of the State or county where the acknowledgment was made.--1 Litt. 570. The Court below, therefore, erred in admitting the copy so certified to be used as evidence. Judgment reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings, etc. Ky.App. 1817. Garrant v. Woods 4 Bibb 526, 7 Ky. 526, 1817 WL 1085 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
