(Cite as: 4 Bibb 554,  7 Ky. 554 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1754 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Chiles v. Calk. Jun. 2, 1817. *1 The defendant in ejectment cannot avail himself of his possession anterior to the date of the plaintiff's patent. The right of entry on land accrues only with the emanation of the grant. The Commonwealth cannot be disseised; neither does the statute of limitations run against the Commonwealth. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 7(2) 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(A) Acquisition of Rights by Prescription in General 20k5 Property Subject to Prescription 20k7 Public Property in  General 20k7(2) k. Public Lands in General. Most Cited  Cases The defendant in ejectment cannot avail himself of his possession anterior to the date of the plaintiff's patent, for the commonwealth cannot be disseised. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an ejectment, on the trial of which it appeared that the plaintiff derived title to the land in controversy under a patent bearing date less than twenty years before the commencement of the action; and that the defendant claimed under a patent younger than that of the plaintiff, but which issued upon a survey of a settlement and pre-emption made and registered more than twenty years prior to bringing the action; and the defendant proved that he, or some one claiming under him, had been in possession of the land in contest upward of twenty years. On this evidence, the plaintiff moved the Court to instruct the jury, that the possession of the defendant, or his tenants, for twenty years previous to the commencement of the suit, could not bar his right of recovery; but the Court refused to give the instruction, to which the plaintiff excepted: and a verdict and judgment having been given for the defendant, the plaintiff has appealed to this Court. There is no doubt that an adverse possession for 20 years will toll a right of entry, and consequently bar a recovery in an action of ejectment. But the question in this case is, whether the defendant can avail himself of his possession anterior to the date of the plaintiff's patent, as an adverse possession? For if he cannot, as the patent issued within less than twenty years before the commencement of the action, it is obvious that the Court below ought to have given the instruction required by the plaintiff. That the right of entry accrued to the plaintiff only with the emanation of his patent, or in other words that the patent conferred the right of entry, is a proposition which cannot at this day admit of controversy in this country; and it would certainly be most preposterous to suppose that the defendant's possession could be adverse to the right of the plaintiff before his right had accrued. It is clear, therefore, that the defendant can avail himself of his possession anterior to the date of the plaintiff's patent only upon the hypothesis that his possession was adverse to the Commonwealth, and would operate to toll or take away her right. But this hypothesis is, we apprehend, without any foundation in principle. The Commonwealth may with propriety be said to possess the faculty of ubiquity or omnipresence, inasmuch as she has an existence equally in every part of the State; she must therefore be seised of all the lands in the State which she has not granted, and cannot be disseised; and consequently no one can acquire a seisin in possession adverse to the Commonwealth. This is more especially true in a case like the present where the tenant in possession holds professedly under the Commonwealth, still looking to her for a grant to secure him in his possession. Even in a case where land is held by one individual of another, under such circumstances the possession of the tenant cannot be deemed adverse to him under whom it is held, as was decided in the case of  Gay v. Moffit, 2 Bibb 506. *2 Besides, were the possession of the defendant adverse to the Commonwealth, it is perfectly clear that it could not toll or take away her right; for it is a settled doctrine of the common law, that no laches can be imputed to the king, insomuch that it has become a maxim, quod nullum tempus occurit regi; and the same privilege has been held by the adjudications of this Court, as well as of the Court of Appeals of Virginia, to belong to the Commonwealth. It results, therefore, that as the defendant's possession anterior to the date of the plaintiff's patent cannot operate to toll either the right of the Commonwealth or of the plaintiff, he cannot avail himself of such possession to bar a recovery in this case, and that the Court below erred in not so instructing the jury. Judgment reversed with costs, etc. Ky.App. 1817. Chiles v. Calk 4 Bibb 554, 7 Ky. 554, 1817 WL 1754 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
