(Cite as: 1 Bibb 354,  4 Ky. 354 (Ky.),  1809 WL 735 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Roots v. Brown. May 20, 1809. *1 Applications to a Court of Chancery for new trials at law, are sanctioned by principle and precedent. A new trial ought not to be awarded, in T A B where complainant's defense at law could only go in mitigation, and moreover the want of defense there was owing to his negligence. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 76(1) 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(F) Verdict or Findings Contrary to Law or Evidence 275k76 Excessive Damages 275k76(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A new trial will not be decreed where the defense could only go in mitigation of damages. If negligence on the part of the applicant is shown, the court will not go into the inquiry as to whether the damages were excessive or not. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. A JUDGMENT at law having been obtained by the appellant against the appellee, in an action of trespass, assault and battery, the appellee filed his bill enjoining proceeding upon the judgment, and praying for a new trial. On the hearing of the cause, the injunction was by the decree of the Court, made perpetual, and a new trial awarded; from this decree an appeal has been taken to this Court. Applications to Courts of Chancery for the purpose of granting new trials at law are not unusual, and the interposition of the chancellor, whenever a proper case is made out, may be warranted, as well upon the score of principle as of precedent. But the case before the Court, does not appear to be such as to justify this exercise of the chancellor's authority; the appellee has shown by his own statement, that he was guilty of the trespass, assault and battery, and that his defense only goes to a mitigation of damages. It is not necessary for the Court to determine whether the damages are so outrageously excessive, that notwithstanding the confession of guilt, a new trial ought to have been granted if no negligence had taken place on the part of the appellee. Since, if the testimony in the cause is true, (and there is no reason to question its verity) the appellee had voluntarily abandoned his cause to the mercy of a jury; his statement that he had employed an attorney to defend the suit, who at the time of trial was necessarily absent is not supported by a particle of proof. Decree reversed. Ky.App. 1809. Roots v. Brown 1 Bibb 354, 4 Ky. 354, 1809 WL 735 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
