(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 398,  8 Ky. 398 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1435 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Young et al., Ad'mrs v. Whitaker & Wilson Dec. 2, 1818. *1 ON A WRIT OF ERROR TO REVERSE A JUDGMENT OF THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 451(4) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k451 Trial 162k451(4) k. Verdict and findings. Most Cited  Cases The plea of no assets is substantially the same as the plea of plene administravit;  and, if the issue on either is found for the plaintiff, the amount of assets should also be found. Infants 211 k 1314 211 Infants 211VII Actions 211VII(B) Course of Proceedings 211k1314 k. Reservation to child of day in court. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 211k109) A guardian, to defend for infants, being appointed, no judgment should be entered against them until he appears. CHIEF JUSTICE BOYLE DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of covenant, brought by the defendants in error in the court below, upon a covenant of warranty, contained in a deed of bargain and sale, executed by the decedent, Young, in his lifetime. The breach of covenant is alleged in the declaration, to be an eviction, under a paramount title, effected through the judgment of the circuit court of the United States for the Kentucky district. A guardian having been appointed ad litem, to defend for the infant heirs, and he failing to appear and plead to the action, judgment was taken against them by default, and a writ of inquiry awarded for the purpose of assessing the damages. The other defendants appeared and pleaded that, the decedent did, in his lifetime, keep and perform his covenant. And the administrator, moreover, plead, that he had no assets in his hands to administer, whereby the demand, or any part thereof, could be satisfied. These pleas were traversed by the plaintiffs in that court, and issues being taken to the country, a jury was called, as well to try the issues as to inquire of damages; and a general verdict having been returned against all of the defendants for $1,406.42, in damages, judgment was therefore entered in favor of the plaintiffs. To reverse this judgment, the heirs and administrator have prosecuted this writ of error. As we suppose the issue, taken to the plea of covenants performed, to be immaterial, we have not thought it material to notice the objections, taken by the assignment of errors, to the decision of the court below, in relation to the trial of that issue. The plea of covenants performed, although proper wherever the covenantor stipulates for the doing or performing any particular act, yet a case like the present, where the breach of covenant is not made to depend upon the happening of the extraneous collateral fact of an eviction under a paramount title, such a plea would, most clearly, upon a demurrer, be held invalid. "Covenants performed," is an issuable plea, when the covenantor undertakes to do a given act, but it is immaterial when the breach arises from a collateral extraneous matter, not depending on the covenanter, yet the error of such plea may be cured by a verdict. *2 In a covenant of warranty and eviction after the death of the the covenantor, the plea of covenants performed by the decedent is clearly immaterial, for as the heirs, &c. are bound by the covenant, it can not be material whether the eviction took place before or since the death of the vendor. If the error alleged grows out of the trial of a bad plea, and is objected to by the party offering such bad plea, the court will not reverse on his application, for he committed the first fault. But if, after verdict, such a plea be good, (and the parties in the court below seem so to have considered it), and an issue taken thereto, can involve an inquiry into the question, whether or not the covenant had been broken; still, as the plea barely alleges the covenant to have been kept by the decedent in his lifetime, we should be of opinion, that it furnishes no sufficient answer to the breach alleged in the declaration, and, consequently, the issue taken must be considered immaterial. For as the heirs are named in the covenant of warranty, upon common law principles, as well as under the statute of this country, they are bound by the covenant, and hence, if there has been an eviction under a paramount title, it can not be material whether it happened either before or after the decease of their ancestor. Assuming the issue, therefore, to be immaterial, as the judgment is against those committing the first fault in pleading, for any irregularity growing out of the trial of that issue, we should not feel ourselves authorized to reverse the judgment. But we are of opinion, that the verdict of the jury ought, specially, to have found the amount of assets in the hands of the administrator to be administered. In the case of an issue on a plea of plene administravit, it is settled, that the amount of assets should be specially found by the jury, (3 Bibb, 86;) and no substantial difference is perceived between such an issue and that found to the plea of the administrator in the present case. In the two cases, the defence, it is true, is somewhat differently expressed, but in each case, as is said by the court, in speaking of an issue to the plea of plene administravit, (5 Cranch, 19,) "the issue really is, whether the defendant has any, and what amount, of assets in his hands." Because, therefore, the verdict of the jury has not found the amount of the assets, the judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings. But as the issue to the plea of covenants performed, is supposed to be immaterial, a trial of that issue should not be again had, but as that plea appears to have been considered by the parties in the court, as presenting an inquiry into the plaintiff's right to recover, the defendants there should, upon their applying for leave to do so, be allowed, by an appropriate plea, to bring in question the plaintiff's right of action. It may, moreover, be proper to remark, that, as respects the infant defendants, the proceedings are not strictly correct. *3 The plea of "plene administravit," and of "no assets," are substantially the same, and if the issue on either is found for the plaintiff, the amount of assets should also be found. A guardian to defend for infants, ought regularly to be appointed, and no judgment should be entered against them until the guardian appears. If, after appearance, the guardian neglects to make a proper defense, the judgment is valid against the infants, but they have their redress against the guardian. As, from the imbecility of infants, they are not supposed competent to select proper counsel to manage their concerns, the court before whom the cause may be depending against them, the more effectually to guard their interest, should appoint a fit and responsible person, guardian, to defend for them. A guardian appears, however, to have been appointed in the present case; but as his willingness to manage the cause could not regularly be known before appearance, the court should have caused him to appear before any judgment was taken against the infants. 3 Bacon's Abr. 613. But as by appearing, the guardian would engage for a faithful management of the cause, and as the court can not be presumed to know whether any, and if any, what defence ought to be made, and as the action against the infants should not be delayed on account of their infancy, judgment might, after appearance by the guardian, be taken against the infants for a default in failing to plead:--Cro. James, 464; 3 Bacon, 613. After having appeared, the guardian would, no doubt, be liable for any injury resulting to the infants from his improperly managing their cause, (see a note to 3 Bac. 419 and the authorities there cited;) and in consequence of that liability, it is said that a recovery suffered by a guardian after appearance, will bind the infants:--3 Bacon, 419; Cro. Cha. 307; 2 Saund. 96, note 2. The judgment must be reversed with cost, the cause remanded to the court below for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Hardin and Hughes, for appellants. Ky.App. 1818. Young v. Whitaker 1 A.K.Marsh. 398, 8 Ky. 398, 1818 WL 1435 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
