(Cite as: 3 Bibb 57,  6 Ky. 57 (Ky.),  1813 WL 601 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Speed v. Buford. May 26, 1813. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(6) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(6) k. Patents. Most Cited Cases A grant from the commonwealth gives a right of entry, but not actual seisin before entry. Real Actions 322 k 2 322 Real Actions 322k1 Writ of Right 322k2 k. Right of Action and Defenses. Most Cited Cases The demandant in a writ of right, to maintain it, must prove an actual seisin. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge OWSLEY did not sit in this cause. *1 THIS was a writ of right, in which the appellant was the demandant and the appellee the tenant in possession. The precipe, the count, the plea and the replication are in the forms prescribed by the "act for reforming the mode of proceeding in writs of right." The jury found a special verdict, from which it appears that each party claimed title to the land in controversy under a patent issued to him from the Commonwealth, and that the patent of the demandant was of an elder date than that of the tenant, but "that the demandant never had the actual occupancy of the land, nor had he seisin or possession thereof, otherwise than what was vested in him by the survey and patent." The demandant in a writ of right, to maintain it, must prove an actual seisin. The grant of the Commonwealth gives a right of entry but not actual seisin. The Court below gave judgment for the tenant, and the demandant has appealed to this Court. Two questions arise on the verdict of the jury in this case. 1. Whether it was necessary for the demandant to prove that he had been actually seised? 2. Whether the patent from the Commonwealth, without an actual entry upon the land invested him with an actual seisin? The first question divides itself into two inquiries--1. Whether by the rules of the common law it was incumbent upon the demandant to show an actual seisin? and, 2. How far the rules of the common law have in this respect been changed by the act for "reforming the mode of proceeding in writs of right?" That at common law it was necessary for the demandant to allege a seisin in himself or his ancestor, is too clear to admit of a doubt--F. N. B. 5, 10--1 Reeves' Hist. Eng. Law 428-9--Litt. sec. 514--Co. Litt. 293 a--Booth 93-4--3 Black. Com. 194-5. And it is no less incontrovertible, that the seisin must be an actual one, and not merely a seisin in law. This point is abundantly established by the form in which the demandant was required to allege a seisin; that is, by taking the profits, which in technical language were called the explees. The precedents, from the most ancient to the most modern, show that this was the invariable mode in which seisin was alleged--See the forms given in Booth from 93 to 110--3 Wilson 419--3 Black. Com. appendix No. 1. As the explees or profits can be taken only by one having the actual seisin or possession, this form of alleging seisin proves that actual seisin was necessary. But this point is one the correctness of which does not depend merely upon the inference deducible from the forms of pleading; it is explicitly asserted by every book of authority in which the subject is mentioned--Booth 111, 112--1 Reeves' Hist. Eng. Law 397, 426, 427--4 Co. Rep. 9--6 Com. Dig. 271--2 Saund. Rep. 45 b. That which is thus necessary to be alleged by the demandant, must consequently be equally necessary to be proven by him. The modes in which the tenant might put the demandant upon the proof of seisin, are various. *2 Anciently no seisin could be alleged, but from the time of Henry I, that being the time limited for bringing a writ of right the limitation was afterward changed to the time of Henry II, and again to that of Richard I. When this mode of limitation prevailed, it was necessary for the demandant to count upon a seisin in himself or his ancestor, in the reign of some particular king, that it might appear to be within the time limited for suing out such writ. But as the seisin in the reign of any particular king could be no otherwise material than as it would show that the writ was brought within the time of limitation, proof of a seisin within that time, although it might be in a reign different from that alleged in the count, would seem to be sufficient to establish the demandant's right. The seisin, therefore, in the king's reign mentioned in the count, was not traversable; and for the same reason it did not come properly within the consideration of the grand assize who were to try the mise joined between the parties. But the tenant might, as a matter of favor, when the mise was joined, put the demandant to proof of the seisin in the time of the king mentioned in the count, by praying any inquiry into that fact and tendering a demi mark; and if it happened that the demandant or his ancestor was not seised in that reign, he would fail through this error the same as if he had never been seised--See Littleton, sec. 514--Booth 97-8--1 Reeves' Hist. Eng. Law 492. Since the statute of 32 Henry VIII limiting the time of bringing a writ of right to sixty years, it is held to be sufficient to allege a seisin within that time, without mentioning the reign of any particular king but if there be mention made of the king's reign, the tenant can take no advantage of it, but as formerly by the tender of the demi mark. But although the seisin in the reign mentioned in the count was not traversable nor properly involved in the mise joined upon the mere right, and could only be inquired into as a matter of favor in the anomalous and extraordinary mode we have mentioned, yet the tenant might plead that the demandant or his ancestor was never seised, and after the statute of the 32 Henry VIII he might traverse the seisin within sixty years--Booth 98-9 and 113. It is pretty evident too, that where there had been no seisin by the demandant or his ancestor, or where there had been no seisin within the time limited for bringing a writ of right, that the tenant might take advantage of it upon the mise joined upon the mere right. For every matter, except a collateral warranty, which might be pleaded in bar might also be given in evidence on the mise joined upon the right--3 Wilson 420--Booth 112. The rule requiring an actual seisin, is obviously founded upon the principle that such a seisin is a necessary requisite to the consummation of the demandant's right. In the title to lands there are several gradations or steps, as the possession, the right of possession, and the right of property; and it is in the union of these, that a complete and perfect title consists. If the right of possession be joined to the right of property, it is then denominated a double right, jus duplicatum, or droit droit; "and when (as Blackstone observes) to this double right is also united the actual possession; when there is, according to the expression of Fleta, juris et seisinae conjunctio, then, and then only is the title completely legal"--2 Black. Com. 202. *3 This principle did not, we apprehend, grow out of the ceremony of livery of seisin, as was contended by the counsel for the demandant. In leases for years that ceremony was unnecessary, yet it is held that an actual entry is requisite to vest the estate in the lessee; for the bare lease gives him only the right to enter, which is called his interest in the term, or interesse termini; and when he enters in pursuance of that right, he is then, and not before in possession of his term and complete tenant for years--Co. Lit. 46 b-- 2 Black. Com. 318. So in the case of a devise, where livery of seisin is impossible, the devisee is held not to have such a complete title, before an actual entry upon the estate devised, as to enable him to maintain a writ of right. These examples, to which others might be added, were others necessary, are sufficient to show that the doctrine of livery of seisin did not give birth to the principle which makes an actual seisin or possession an essential ingredient in the constitution of a complete and perfect title to land. This idea is further fortified by the consideration that the principle in question is not found to be peculiar to the common law. In the Roman law, a perfect title, or plenum dominium, as it was called, was not said to subsist, unless where a man had both the right and the corporeal possession, which possession could not be acquired without an actual seisin or entry into the premises, or a part of them, in the name of the whole. The words of the civil law, as cited by Blackstone from the code, are "traditionibus dominia rerum, non nudis, pactis, transferuntur"--2 Black. Com. 316, note 2. In fact this principle has its foundation in nature, and is, therefore, prior in the order of time to any positive institution. For all the writers upon natural law agree that occupancy, which is but another name for seisin or possession, not only gave the right to the temporary use, but was the origin of the right to the permanent property in land. To ascribe this principle then to the ceremony of livery of seisin, would be reversing the order of nature. It may have been, and probably was the cause of introducing livery of seisin, but it cannot be the effect of that ceremony. Properly speaking, it is possession that perfects the right, and livery of seisin is but one of the means which the law has appointed for attaining possession. The principle, therefore, upon which the rule requiring an actual seisin in writs of right is founded, not having grown, as was supposed in the argument, out of the ceremony of livery of seisin, the inference attempted to be deduced from that supposition, in favor of the right of the demandant to recover without showing an actual seisin, in cases where livery of seisin is unnecessary, cannot be admitted: for as the premises are fallacious, the conclusion must inevitably fail. It results, therefore, clearly, that upon the principles of the common law, it was incumbent upon the demandant in a writ of right to allege and prove an actual seisin. *4 How far the "act for reforming the mode of proceeding in writs of right," has in this respect changed the principles of the common law, is the next subject of inquiry. It seems to admit of no doubt, that the act has dispensed with the necessity of alleging seisin; the form of the count given by the act containing no such allegation. It is from this circumstance also inferred that proof of seisin cannot be required; but this inference will not appear to be warranted, if the whole context of the act be taken into consideration. It was manifestly not the intention of the legislature to affect the right of the parties, but to facilitate and expedite the mode of proceeding. To dispense, however, with the proof of seisin, would not be a mere change of the mode of proceeding, but would in effect be dispensing with proof of that which theretofore had been deemed an essential requisite in the right of the demandant. This is abundantly apparent from what has already been observed. But what is altogether conclusive upon this subject, is the provision of the act which declares "that at the trial every matter may be given as evidence which might have been specially pleaded." Now as we have before seen that the tenant might plead specially that there was either no seisin, or no seisin within the time allowed for bringing a writ of right, it necessarily follows that the want of seisin may be taken advantage of on the trial under this act. This construction is strengthened and confirmed by the provisions of the statute of limitations. By that statute no person can maintain a writ of right, upon the seisin of his ancestor or predecessor, but within fifty years; and upon his own seisin, but within thirty years next before the test of the writ. That the seisin required by the statute is an actual seisin, is clearly established by the authorities before cited, and especially by the case in 4 Co. Rep. f. 9. To dispense with proof of seisin, would be incompatible with its provisions. It would reduce the statute to a dead letter and render it wholly inoperative: for if the demandant be not bound to prove a seisin at any time, he cannot be bound to prove a seisin within the time prescribed by the statute. A construction attended with such consequences, is evidently inadmissible: for these statutes being made in pari materia, ought to be construed together, and such an exposition ought to be given to them as to render both operative and efficient. But it was contended that the Commonwealth was seized within the time allowed by the statute, and that the patentee might avail herself of her seisin as his predecessor. Although this argument was urged with apparent gravity, we can scarcely bring ourselves to believe it was seriously expected to have any influence upon the minds of the Court. The Commonwealth is certainly seised and cannot be disseised of the unappropriated lands within the bounds of the State; but it is impossible that she can be the predecessor of the patentee, according to the legal acceptation of the term. Predecessor and successor, like ancestor and heir, are correlative terms. The former are exclusively applicable to the relation between artificial or political persons, as the latter are to the relation between natural persons; and the relation in either case cannot exist unless the ancestor or predecessor be dead or extinct. The Commonwealth, therefore, cannot, while she exists, be the predecessor of any one, no more than a natural person can, while still living, be the ancestor of another. *5 The relation of seller and purchaser may, and indeed does exist between the Commonwealth and the patentee. But it is a settled principle, that the purchaser cannot maintain a writ of right upon the seisin of the seller--Co. Litt. 293 a--2 Saund. 45, note 4. It is clear, therefore, that the "act for reforming the mode of proceeding in writs of right," though it has dispensed with the necessity of alleging seisin, has not dispensed with the necessity of proving it. The remaining question to be investigated, is, whether the patent from the Commonwealth invested the demandant with the actual seisin? This question occurred in the case of Steward's devisees v.  Crawford, (2 Bibb 412) and was then decided in the negative. In that case it was contended, as it has been in this, that the act concerning conveyances having made livery of seisin unnecessary, and transferred the possession to the use, a patentee had thereby a seisin or possession in fact. But whether we regard the reason which produced the enactment of that provision, or its literal import, the conclusion will be equally clear, that the patentee is not embraced by it. That provision is in substance the same as the statute of Henry VIII, usually called the statute of uses. Prior to that statute, lands or other corporeal hereditaments could be passed from one individual to another by feoffment and livery of seisin only. The manifest object of that statute, as well as of the provision in our act, was to dispense with the necessity of livery of seisin, in cases where that ceremony was previously necessary; and by the plain and literal import of our statute, its operation is confined to such cases only. But the ceremony of livery of seisin was not necessary in a grant or conveyance by letters patent, and it therefore follows that the patentee cannot claim a possession under the provision of that act. But were the patentee within the provision of the statute, it would not result that he was invested with an actual possession. The statute of uses in England has never been construed to transfer an actual seisin; for it is physically impossible that a statute should give any more than a legal seisin, or seisin in law. It is, therefore, laid down that the bargainee, or cestui que use, under the statute, cannot maintain trespass before an actual entry upon the land--6 Com. Dig. 390--Carth. 66--Gilb. Uses 230--2 Fonb. 12. It cannot admit of a doubt, that at common law the patentee was not actually seised before he made an entry upon the land: for a seisin in fact can only be attained by an actual entry upon the land, or a part of it in the name of the whole--6 Com. Dig. 271. The patent gives a right of entry, which, until tolled by time or other circumstance, will authorize the patentee to acquire an actual seisin by an entry upon the land; but until he makes such an entry, it is a contradiction in terms to say that he has an actual seisin or possession. The author of "The Grounds and Rudiments of Law and Equity," speaking of descents which will or will not toll an entry, says that "a difference is to be taken between a right for which the law giveth remedy by action, and a title for which the law giveth no remedy but by entry only." In the former case, a descent will toll an entry; but where there is no remedy by action, the title of an entry will not be taken away. Among other examples of the latter description, he gives the case of a devisee and of the king's patentee before entry; "and the reason," he observes, "of this difference, is because there is but a title, and no remedy by action in these cases"--Grounds and Rudiments 50, 51. The same doctrine is laid down by Co. Lit. 240 b. These authorities not only prove that the patentee before entry is not actually seised, but they likewise demonstratively evince that he cannot maintain a writ of right without such a seisin. *6 Upon the whole, therefore, we feel ourselves bound to conclude from the view which we have been at present able to take of the subject, that it was incumbent upon the demandant to prove an actual seisin, and that the patent is not of itself, without an actual entry upon the land, sufficient evidence of such a seisin. It may not, however, be improper to remark, that as the subject is a novel one, and of immense importance to the country, we shall attend with more than ordinary satisfaction to any argument or authorities which may tend to lead to a different conclusion, if presented while the case is still within the power of the Court. But from the length of time the question has been depending before the Court, as well as from other circumstances, it seems proper that we should no longer delay giving that judgment which the present convictions of our understandings induce us to believe correct. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed, with costs.FNa1 FNa1. This question, with others, was adjourned from the seventh Circuit and Kentucky District to the Supreme Court of the United States. The decision of that Court upon this question, as well as upon the others, bears upon the interests of such a large portion of the citizens of this State, that I have thought proper to publish that opinion at large. SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES--FEBR'Y TERM, 1814. John Green v. John Liter, etc. THIS is a writ of right brought by the demandant against the tenant, to recover seisin of a large tract of land set forth in the count. At a trial in the Circuit Court for Kentucky district, several questions arose upon which the Court were divided, and the questions are now certified for the opinion of this Court. I. Have the Circuit Courts of the United States jurisdiction in a writ of right, where the land claimed by the demandant is above the value of five hundred dollars, but the tenement held by the tenant is of less value than five hundred dollars? As to the first question, we are satisfied that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the cause. Taking the 11th and 20th sections of the judicial act of 1789 in connection, it is clear that the jurisdiction attaches, where the property demanded exceeds five hundred dollars in value; and if upon the trial the demandant recover less, he is not allowed his costs, but at the discretion of the Court may be adjudged to pay costs. II. Can the demandant join in the writ and count several tenants claiming under several distinct, separate and independent original titles all of which interfere with the land of the demandant? If he can, must he demand of them the tenements they severally hold, or may he demand a tenement to the extent of his own title? If it comprises a part not claimed or held by any of the said tenants, may he demand in his count against the said several tenants, his own tenement; or must he demand of each tenant the tenement he severally holds? As to the second question, we are of opinion that at common law a writ of right will not lie, except against the tenant of the freehold demanded; (a) if there are several tenants claiming several parcels of land by distinct titles, they cannot lawfully be joined in one writ, and if they are they may plead in abatement of the writ. If the demandant demands against any tenant more land than he holds, he may plead non-tenure as to the parcel not holden; and this plea by the ancient common law would have abated the whole writ. FN(a). Booth on Real Act. 28, 29, 31 -- Fitz. N. B. vol. 1, fol. 1, E. But the statute 25 Edward 3d, 16, which may be considered as a part of our common law, having been in force at the emigration of our ancestors, cured the defect, and declared that the writ should abate only as to the parcel whereof non-tenure was pleaded and admitted or proved. In fact the act of Virginia of 1792, (b) ch. 125, which is in force in Kentucky, enacts substantially the same provision as the statute of Edward. FN(b). Acts of Kentucky 1798, Litt. E. L. K. 2 vol. ch. 50, p. 87?? But it is supposed in argument, that the act of Kentucky to amend proceedings in chancery and common law, which provides that if the plaintiff at law shall prove part of his demand or claim set up in his declaration he shall not be nonsuited, but shall have judgment for what he proves, entitles the demandant in this case to join parties who hold in severalty by distinct titles. To this doctrine the Court cannot accede. At common law, in many instances, if the party demand in his writ more than he proved was his right, he lost his action by the falsity of his writ. It was to cure this ancient evil, that the act of Kentucky was made; it enables the party to recover, although he should prove only part of the claim in his declaration; but it does not intend to enable him to join parties in an action who could not be joined at the common law. It could no more entitle a demandant in a real action to recover against several tenants, claiming by distinct and separate titles, than it could entitle a plaintiff to maintain a joint action of assumpsit, where the contracts were several and independent. Infinite inconvenience and mischief would result from such a construction, and we should not incline to adopt it, unless it were unavoidable. III. Can the tenant under the said act plead in abatement, either in the pleas of, non-tenure joint tenancy, sole tenancy, several tenancy, or never tenant of the freehold, or any of them, or other pleas in abatement, necessary to his case; or is he compellable to join the mise in the form prescribed by the said act: if he can, when, or at what stage of the proceedings? If he cannot, may he give it in evidence on the mise joined, under the said act? As to the third question, it is clear at the common law, that non-tenure, joint tenure, sole tenure, and several tenure, were good pleas in abatement to a writ of right, but they could only be pleaded in abatement; for the tenant, by joining the mise, or pleading in bar, admitted himself tenant of the freehold. Such a pleading in bar was an admission that he had a capacity to defend the suit, and he was stopped by his own act from denying it. The act of Virginia of 1786, (c) ch. 59, reforming the proceedings on writs of right, was not intended to vary the rights of legal predicaments of the parties: it did not intend therefore to change the nature and effect of the pleadings; and notwithstanding that act, the tenant shall still have the full benefit of the ordinary pleas in abatement. FN(c). Acts of Kentucky 1798, 2 Littell, ch. 1. p. 3. It is true that the act provides that the tenant at the trial, may, on the general issue, give in evidence any matter which might have been specially pleaded; but this provision is manifestly confined to matters in bar. It would be absurd to suppose that the legislature meant to give a mere exception in abatement, the full effect of a perfect bar on the merits; which would be the case, if such an exception would authorize a verdict for the tenant, on issue joined on the mere right. The time and manner of filing the pleadings must of course be left to the established practice and rules in the Circuit Court. IV. May the tenant under the said act plead specially any matter of bar, or must he join in the mise without other plea in the form prescribed by the said act? As to the fourth point, we are of opinion that under the act of Virginia of 1786, the tenant may at his election plead any special matter in bar in a writ of right, or give it in evidence on the mise joined. The act is not deemed compulsive but cumulative. V. Can a demandant who has regularly obtained a patent from the land office of the State of Virginia, for the land in contest, under the act of the Virginia Legislature passed in the year 1779, commonly styled the land law, maintain a writ of right under such patent against a person claiming and holding possession under a younger patent from the said State, without first having taken actual possession of the land, under his patent, and held by the tenant? If he can maintain a writ of right without such proof in the general, can he do it where his right of entry is barred by an actual adverse possession of twenty years?? The fifth question is that which has been deemed most important, and to that the counsel on each side have directed their efforts with great ability. It is clear by the whole current of authority, that actual seisin or seisin indeed, is at the common law necessary to maintain a writ of right; nor is this peculiar to actions on the mere right; it equally applies to writs of entry, and the language of the counsel in both cases is, that the demandant or his ancestors was within the time of limitation seised in his demense as of fee, etc., taking the esplees, etc. It is highly probable that the foundation of this rule was laid in the earliest rudiments of titles at the common law It is well known that in ancient times no deed or charter was necessary to convey a fee simple: the title, the full and perfect dominion was conveyed by a mere livery of seisin in the presence of the vicinage. It was the notoriety of this ceremony, performed in the presence of his peers, that gave the tenant his feodal investiture of the inheritance. Deeds and charters of feoffment were of a later age, and were held not to convey the estate itself, but only to evidence the nature of the conveyance. The solemn act of livery and seisin was absolutely necessary to produce a perfect title, or as Fleta calls it, juris et seisinoe conjunctio. But whatever may have been its origin, the rule as to actual seisin has long since become an inflexible doctrine of the common law. It has been argued that the act of Virginia of 1786, ch. 59, meant in this respect to change the doctrine of the common law, because that act has given the form of the count in a writ of right, and omits any allegation of seisin and taking esplees. There is certainly some countenance in the act for the argument, but on mature consideration we are of opinion that it cannot prevail. The form of joining the mise in a writ of right is also given in the same act, and that form includes the same inquiry, viz: 'which hath the greater right?' as in the forms at common law. It would seem to follow that the legislature did not mean to change the nature of the facts which were to be inquired into; but only to provide a more summary mode of proceeding. The clause in the same act, allowing any special matter to be given in evidence on the mise joined, may also be called in aid of this construction: that clause certainly shows that it was not intended to relieve the demandant from the effect of any existing bar; and want of seisin was at the common law a fatal bar. The statute of limitations of Virginia of December 19th 1792, ch. 76 (d), which as to this point is a revisal of the old statute, limits a writ of right upon ancestoral seisin to fifty years, and upon the demandant's own seisin to thirty years next before the teste of the writ. It is therefore incumbent upon the demandant to prove a seisin within the time of limitation, otherwise he is without remedy; and if so it must be involved in the issue joined on the mere right. We are therefore of opinion that the act of 1786 did not mean to change the nature of the inquiry as to the titles of the parties, but merely to remedy some of the inconveniences in the mode of proceeding. FN(d). Acts of Kentucky 1796, 1 Litt. ch. 208, p. 381. If then an actual seisin, or seisin in deed, be necessary to be proved, it becomes material to inquire what constitutes such a seisin. It has been supposed in argument that an actual entry under title and perception of esplees were necessary to be proved in order to show an actual seisin; but this is far from being true even at the common law. There are cases in which there is a constructive seisin in deed, which is sufficient for all the purposes of action in legal intendment. In Hargrave's note (3) Co. Litt. 29 a (e), it is said that any entry is not always necessary to give a seisin in deed; for if the land be in lease for years, curtesy may be without entry, or even receipt of rent. The same is the doctrine as to seisin in a case of possessio fratis. So if a grantee or heir of several parcels of land in the same county, enter into one parcel in the name of the whole, where there is no conflicting possession, the law adjudges him in the actual seisin of the whole--Litt. sec. 417, 418. In like manner if a man have a title of entry into lands, but dares not enter for fear of bodily harm, and he approach as near the land as he dare, and claim the land as his own, he hath presently by such claim a possession and seisin in the lands, as well as if he had entered in deed--Litt. sec. 419(f). And livery within the view of the land, will under circumstances give the feoffee a seisin in deed as effectually as an actual entry. There are therefore cases in which the law gives the party a constructive seisin in deed; they are founded upon this plain reason, that either the claim is made sufficiently notorious by an actual entry into part, of which the vicinage can take notice, or the party has done all that under the circumstances of the case he was bound to do--Lex non co??it sese ad vana aut impossibilia. The same is the result of conveyances deriving their effect under the statute of uses; for there, without actual entry or livery of seisin, the bargainee has a complete seisin in deed--Com Dig. Uses (B. 1, 1). Cro. Eliz. 46--1, Irwin Dig. 12--Shep. Tou. 223, etc.--Har. Co. Litt 271. And the Kentucky act (g) respecting conveyances, which is in substance like the statute of uses, gives to private deeds the same legal effect. It has however been supposed in argument, that not only an actual seisin or complete investiture of the land, but also a perception of the profits, or as it is technically called, a taking of the esplees, is absolutely necessary to support a writ of right. It cannot, however, be admitted that the taking of the esplees is a traversable averment in the count; it is but evidence of the seisin; and the seisin in deed once established, either by a pedis possessio or by construction of law, the taking of the esplees is a necessary inference of law. If, therefore, a seisin be established, although the land be leased for a term of years and thereby the profit belong to the tenant, still the legal intendment is that the esplees follow the seisin; and so it would be although a mere trespasser, without claiming title, should actually take the profits during the time of the seisin alleged and proved, and in deed of certain real property, as a barren rock, a complete seisin may exist without the existence of esplees. FN(e). 3 Atkins 469, De Grey, etc. v. Richardson--7 Viner, Descent (K) pla. 34, p. 585--Co. Litt. 15--3 Wilson 516, Newman v. Newman. FN(f). Vide also sect. 429, 430. FN(g). 1 Litt. E. L. K. ch. 278, sec. 13, p. 572. The result of this reasoning is, that whenever there exist the union of title and seisin in deed, either by actual entry and livery of seisin or by intendment of law, as by conveyance under the statute of uses, or in the other instances which have been before stated, there the esplees are knit to the title, so as to enable the party to maintain a writ of right; and it will be found extremely difficult to maintain that a deed which by the lex loci conveys a perfect title to waste and vacant lands without further ceremony, will not yet enable the grantee to support that title by giving him the highest remedy applicable to it, without an actual entry. Let us now consider how far a perfect title to waste and vacant lands can be considered as having passed by a patent under the land law of Virginia of 1779 (b). It is argued that such a patent conveys only a right or title of entry, until consummated by actual possession. gives the patentee no actual investiture or seisin of the land, and it is likened to the case of a patent from the crown. Some countenance is lent by authority to this position, so far as respects patents from the crown; but a careful examination will be found by no means to establish its correctness. No livery of seisin is necessary to perfect a title by letters patent; the grantee in such case takes by matter of record, and the law deems the grant of record of equal notoriety with an actual tradition of the land in the view of the vicinage. The contrary is the fact as to feoffments; the deed is inoperative without livery of seisin. This difference alone would seem to carry a pretty strong implication that actual seisin passed by operation of law on a patent from the crown; for it is the union of right and seisin that constitutes a perfect title; and when once the law has declared a title perfect, it must include every thing necessary to produce that effect. FN(b). Chan. Rev. ch. 13, p. 94--1 Lit. ch. 261, p. 415. Accordingly we find it expressly held in Barwick's case,  5 Co. 94 that letters patent under the great seal do amount to a livery in law. What is a livery in law, but such an act as in legal contemplation amounts to a delivery of seisin? If, for instance, a feoffment include divers parcels of land in the same county, livery of seisin of one parcel in the name of the whole, is livery of all not in an adverse possession. This, therefore, as to all the parcels except that whereof livery is actually made, is but a livery in law, and yet to all intents and purposes it is as effectual as livery in deed. And it was upon the footing of this doctrine, that in Barwick's case the Court held that the conveyance of a freehold by letters patent to commence in future, was void, as much as if the conveyance had been by feoffment; because in neither case could there be a present delivery of a future freehold estate; the livery must operate at the time when it is made, or not at all. It is not therefore admitted by this Court that letters patent of the crown do not convey a perfect title where there is no interfering possession. But even admitting it were otherwise, still we think a patent under the land law of Virginia must be considered as a statute grant, which is to have all the legal effects attached to it which the legislature intended. It cannot be doubted that the legislature were competent to give their patentees a perfect title and possession, without actual entry. Have they done so? We think that it is impossible, looking at the language of their acts, or the state of the country, to doubt that the whole legal estate and seisin of the Commonwealth in the lands, passed to the patentee upon the issuing of his patent, in as full and ample extent and beneficial a manner, and (subject only to the rights of the Commonwealth) as the Commonwealth itself held them. At the time of the passing of the act of 1779. Kentucky was a wilderness: it was the haunt of savages and beasts of prey. Actual entry and possession was impracticable; and if practicable it could answer no beneficial purpose; it could create no notoriety; it could evidence to no vicinage a change of the property. An entry would, therefore, have been a vain, useless and perilous act, and if there ever was a case in which the maxim would apply, that the law does not oblige to vain or impossible things, we think it such a one as the present. There is no pretense that the legislature have expressly made an entry a prerequisite to the completion of the title. Such a prerequisite, if it exist at all, must arise from mere implication only, and under circumstances which would render it nugatory or absurd. We do not therefore feel at liberty to insert in the operation of the grant a limitation which the law has not itself interposed. And this leads us to say, that even if at common law an actual pedis possessio?? followed up by an actual perception of the profits, were necessary to maintain a writ of right, which we do not admit, the doctrine would be inapplicable to the waste and vacant lands of our country. The common law itself in many cases dispenses with such a rule, and the reason of the rule itself ceases when applied to a mere wilderness. The object of the law in requiring actual seisin, was to evince notoriety of title to the neighborhood, and the consequent burdens of feodal duties. In the simplicity of ancient times, there were no means of ascertaining titles but by the visible seisin, and indeed there was no other mode between subjects, of passing title, but livery of the land itself, by the symbolical delivery of turf and twig. The moment that a tenant was thus seised he had a perfect investiture, and if ousted, could maintain his action in the realty, although he had not been long enough in the possession even to touch the esplees. The very object of the rule therefore, was notoriety, to prevent fraud upon the lord and upon the other tenants?? But in a mere uncultivated country, in wild and impenetrable woods, in the sullen and solitary haunts of beasts of prey, what notoriety could an entry, a gathering of a twig or an acorn, convey to civilized man at the distance of hundreds of miles? The reason of the rule could not apply to such a state of things, and cessante ratione cessat et lex. We are entirely satisfied, that a conveyance of wild and vacant lands gives a constructive seisin thereof in deed to the grantee, and attaches to him all the legal remedies incident to the estate. (i) A fortiori this principle applies to a patent, since at the common law it imports a livery in law: upon any other construction, infinite mischiefs would result. Titles by descent, and devise, and purchase, where the party from whom the title was derived was never in actual seisin, would, upon principles of the common law, be utterly lost. FN(i). Accord.  Clay v. White, 1 Munf. 162. VI. Is the eldest patent obtained as aforesaid for the land in controversy, sufficient proof of the best mere right; or can the demandant be put on the proof, that in the incipiency, and in the different steps necessary to complete his title, he has complied with the requisites prescribed by the acts, the one entitled "an act for adjusting and settling the titles of claimants to unpatented lands, under the present and former government, previous to the establishment of the Commonwealth's land office," and the other entitled "an act for establishing a land office and ascertaining the terms and manner of granting waste and unappropriate lands," (k) and the subsequent laws of Virginia on the same subject in force at the time of the erection of the district of Kentucky into a separate State? FN(k). Chan. Rev. ch. 12, 13, p. 90-4--1 Litt. E. L. K. ch. 261, p. 385. VII. If the demandant is not compellable to show anything beyond his patent, can the tenant holding the younger patent be permitted to impeach the demandant's patent, to show the incipiency and completion of his own title, and the relative merit of his own and the demandant's title? As to the sixth question, we are of opinion that in Kentucky a patent is the completion of the legal title of the parties; and it is the legal title only that can come in controversy in a writ of right. The previous stages of title are merely equitable, which a Court of Chancery may enforce, but a Court of Common Law will not entertain. In this opinion we adopt the principles which the Courts of Kentucky have been understood uniformly to sanction. And this opinion is also an answer to the seventh question. VIII. Can the tenant defend himself by showing an older and better existing title than the demandant's in a third person? As to the eighth question, we are of opinion that a better substituting adverse title in a third person, is no defense in a writ of right; that writ brings into controversy only the mere rights of the parties to the suit. IX. Where several tenants, claiming in severalty, are joined in a writ of right, should the finding of the jury be several, of the mere right between the demandant and each tenant, or may it be a general finding that the demandant has the best mere right? As to the ninth question, we have already expressed an opinion that tenants claiming different parcels of land by distinct titles, cannot be joined in a writ of right. If, however, they omit to plead in abatement, but join in the mise, it is an inadmission that they are joint tenants of the whole, and the verdict, if for the demandant, for any parcel of the land, may be general, that he hath more mere right to hold the same than the tenants. and if of any parcel for the tenants that they have more mere right to hold the same than the demandant. X. The Commonwealth having first made and granted a patent to the demandant, and afterward by her patent granted a part of the same land to the defendants, who entered and obtained the first possession; the demandant afterward entered and took possession, under his own grant, of that part of his land not within the patent of the last grantee: who has the better mere right to the lands where the patents conflict outside of the actual close of the last grantee? As to the tenth question, the general rule is, that if a man enter into lands having title, his seisin is not bounded by his actual occupancy, but is held to be coextensive with his title. But if a man enter without title, his seisin is confined to his possession by metes and bounds. In the case put by the Court below, the first patentee had the better legal title, and his seisin, presently, by virtue of his patent, gave him the best mere right to the whole land, upon the principles which we have already stated: a fortiori he must have the best mere right to the land not included in the actual close of the second patentee; for by construction of law, he has the eldest seisin as well as the elder patent. XI. Will an entry upon part, and taking the esplees under the eldest grant from the Commonwealth, and making claim to the whole land included within the bounds of the eldest grant, authorize the demandant to maintain his writ of right against the tenants holding a previous possession under a younger patent interfering with the elder grant? As to the eleventh point, we are of opinion that if a man having title to land enter into a part in the name of the whole, he is, upon common law principles?? adjudged in seisin of the whole, notwithstanding an adverse seisin thereof; but if the land be in the seisin of the several tenants claiming different parcels thereof in severalty, an entry into the parcel held by one tenant will not give seisin of the parcels held by the other tenants, but there must be an entry into each--Co. Litt. 252, b. By a parity of reason, an entry into a parcel which is vacant, will not give seisin of a parcel which is in an adverse seisin; but an entry into the last parcel, in the name of the whole, will inure as an entry into the vacant parcel. It does not appear in the question put by the Court below, into which parcel the entry is supposed to be made. Such are the unanimous opinions of this Court, which are to be certified to the Circuit Court of Kentucky. A petition for a re-hearing was presented, and afterward, on the 23d day of December, 1814, the following opinion was delivered by Chief Justice BOYLE. *7 THE main positions attempted to be maintained in the petition for a re-hearing, as well as on the re-argument of this case, are substantially the same as those relied on in the original argument, and are--1. That it is not necessary for a demandant in a writ of right to show an actual seisin; and 2. If it be necessary, that the patentee of the Commonwealth is, without entry upon the land so seized. It is no longer a question, whether, upon the principles of the common law, it was necessary for the demandant in a writ of right to show an actual seisin in himself or his ancestor, to enable him to recover. Such is now admitted on all hands to be the inflexible doctrine of the common law. As the common law has been adopted as a part of the code of this State, it must necessarily follow that this doctrine is in force and constitutes the rule of decision here, unless it has been either expressly or virtually repealed by some statutory provision. That it has been expressly repealed, is not pretended; but its virtual abolition has been attempted to be inferred from the act of 1786, reforming the method of proceeding in writs of right, because the form of the count given in that act has omitted the allegation of seisin. In the opinion formerly delivered in this case, this argument was repelled by remarking that it was the intention of the legislature to regulate the mode of proceeding, and not to change the nature of the facts necessary to be proven. That intention was then, and still is supposed to be sufficiently manifested, not only from the general context of the act, but more especially from the clause allowing any special matter which might have been pleaded to be given in evidence. But it is contended that such a construction would render the act useless and nugatory; and we are told of the exalted characters of its authors, and reminded of the gross absurdity of charging upon them such an unmeaning and inoperative law. Though it is not our business to eulogize the authors of this act, we must be permitted to disclaim the intention to derogate from their wisdom either as lawyers or statesmen; nor do we admit that we have done so in the construction we have given to the act. Without ascribing to them an intention to abolish the rule requiring seisin, or supposing that they acted upon the idea that it was abolished, we can see sufficient reason for the passage of such a law, to do justice to the motives and intelligence of its authors. In framing a count at common law, the difficulty of deducing the descent from the ancestor who was alleged to be sized, was in many instances very great; more especially when the descent was in the traverse or collateral line. And if in the count any one was omitted in the descent, if it commenced with one who never was in seisin, or if there was any error in the person or the name of any one mentioned in the descent, the demandant necessarily failed--1 Reeves' Eng. Law 431. To avoid difficulties of this sort, and the failures that necessarily grew out of them, was, no doubt, the object of omitting the allegation of seisin in the form of the count given in the act of 1786. For the other changes introduced by that act, the delay and expense necessarily incident to the common law mode of proceeding, would be sufficient rationally to account. But an indispensable reason for reforming the mode of proceeding, is to be found in the nature of the qualifications of those who composed the grand assize, and who alone could try the mise joined upon the mere right. Regularly they were required to be knights gladiis cinctis, and in their absence esquires only could be substituted in their place. But as all ranks were by the abolition of the regal government reduced to the level of plain citizens, it is evident when the mise was joined upon the mere right that a trial could not be had. It cannot then be believed that the construction given to the act by the former opinion of this Court, can imply the slightest imputation of the want of wisdom in those who passed it. *8 But it is contended that the rule requiring seisin is founded upon feudal principles, and that it is inapplicable to land titles in this country, which are in their nature allodial. Were it admitted that the rule was founded upon feudal principles, the inference attempted to be deduced from thence could not be justified. There are no rules of the common law which can be more clearly traced to their feudal origin, than those which regulate the course of descents; yet we are still daily in the habit of applying those rules to titles in this country, in cases where the ancestor died before the passage of the act altering the course of descents; and had that act not been passed, there can be no doubt that those rules would have been universally regarded as the criteria of right in every case of descent. So the necessity of livery of seisin to convey a freehold estate, is admitted to be founded upon feudal reasons, but it cannot be pretended that such an estate could have been otherwise conveyed at this day, if there were no statutory provision to authorize it. These examples, to which many others might be added, are sufficient to show that the mere circumstance of a rule being founded upon the principles of the feudal law, is no evidence of its not being in force in this country. But the position that the rule in question was founded upon feudal policy cannot be conceded. It was gratuitously assumed in the argument, without the citation of any authority in support of it, and it is confidently believed that there exists no such authority. But against the doctrine that seisin is not necessary to be shown in a writ of right, an argument which has not been answered, and which it is still thought is unanswerable, is afforded by the statute of limitations. That statute requires a seisin within a limited time before the test of the writ. To dispense with the necessity of seisin, is therefore utterly irreconcilable with this provision: for, as was remarked in the former opinion, if seisin be not necessary to be shown, it cannot be necessary to be shown within the time limited by the statute. And if this doctrine be correct as to the patentee, because his title is allodial, it is equally so as to his heir, his devisee or his alienee: for the nature of the title cannot be changed by passing to them. It is in their hands as much allodial as it was in the hands of the patentee. As, therefore, the whole lands of the State must be claimed by one or other of these descriptions of persons, there is no case, if this doctrine be true, in which the statute can operate. It will thus become a lifeless letter, a mere incumbrance in the statute book, and possession for no length of time can give any repose or security to titles. It cannot be pretended that the seisin required by the statute, is not an actual seisin. The cases cited in the former opinion completely negative such an idea, and the whole current of authorities, from the first enactment of the statute till the present time, runs in the same way. *9 If then actual seisin be necessary to maintain a writ of right, it remains to inquire whether the patentee is so seised before he has entered upon the land? There are but two kinds of seisin or possession known to the law--a seisin or possession in fact, and a seisin or possession in law. The former is gained by an actual entry upon the land; the latter is where there is no such actual entry made, but the law, for certain purposes, supposes a fictitious possession. The one is therefore founded upon fact, and the other upon fiction. The one is real, and is cognizable by the senses; the other is ideal, and exists only in contemplation, or construction of law. Besides these, the law not only recognizes no other, but it is impossible that any other should exist. The mind cannot conceive the idea of a third species of possession, nor can any combination of words express such an idea. To say that a person may be seised in deed, or in fact, by construction of law, is an assertion which conveys no distinct meaning, it is in truth inconsistent with itself. For if a person be seised in deed, or in fact, then he is not seised by construction; and if he be seised by construction only, he is not seised in deed. Where the fact exists, the fiction must be at an end; and if the fact do not exist, the possession can be nothing but a fiction. It is plain then that the patentee can only be seised either in fact or in law. When he has by himself or another entered upon the land, he has thereby become seised in fact; but before he has made such an entry, he can only be seised in law. The position, therefore, that he is seised in fact, without an actual entry upon the land, is utterly inadmissible. It not only annihilates all distinction between fiction and fact, but while it assumes that the party is in actual possession, it in terms admits that he is not so; thus involving the greatest of all possible absurdities, that the same thing may be, and not be, at the same time. According to this doctrine, a man may be in the actual possession of a tract of land in this country, not only where he has not in fact entered upon the land, nor any one for him, but when he has never been within the limits of the Commonwealth. He may be in the remotest region of the earth, among the antipodes if you please, and still at the same time in the actual possession of land here. Before we can admit such a doctrine, we must be prepared to abandon the evidence of our senses, and to deny the first principles upon which all science is founded. The cases referred to in the argument, in support of this doctrine seem clearly to be misunderstood, or to be misapplied. It cannot be admitted, as was contended, that the bargainee, under the statute of uses, was in actual possession before entry. If he were so, he certainly could maintain trespass; but it is settled that he cannot have trespass before entry--Cart. 66--6 Com. Dig. title trespass, B 3. And the author of the "Treaties upon Equity," observes, emphatically, that actual possession is not in cestui que use under the statute, neither can he maintain an action of trespass; for it is impossible an act of parliament should give anything more than a civil seisin-- 2 Fonb. 12, for which is cited Gilb. Uses, 230. *10 The case referred to in the argument in which it is held that where lands are in lease for years, and the reversioner dies, his heir will be actually seised without entry, is admitted to be law. But in that case there is an actual possession of the tenant, and his possession is the possession of the heir, under whom he holds; and it never was denied that a man might acquire or hold the actual possession by another, as well as by himself: for that which a man does by another, he does by himself, according to the maxim qui facit per alium facit per se. The application of the case of the possessio fratris, which was mentioned is not perceived; but if it applied, it would not prove what was intended by it: for, to constitute a possessio fratris there must be an actual seisin; a pedis possessio, and a mere seisin in law is not sufficient. The case cited to prove that in England a patent from the crown amounts to a livery in law, is also admitted to be sound law: but every one who has any pretensions to legal information, must know that a livery in law does not give an actual possession until entry is made upon the premises. That case, so far from justifying an inference that a patentee is, without entry upon the land, actually seised, demonstratively evinces that he is not seised, and is in perfect consonance with the doctrine quoted in the former opinion from Coke upon Littleton, and the Grounds and Rudiments of Law. The position then that a patentee is actually seised before he has entered upon the land, is not only preposterous in principle, but unsupported by precedent. If, indeed, the legislature had, in the law authorizing grants of land to be made, expressly declared that the patentee, without entry, should be actually seised, absurd as anything would have been, the Court would have been bound so to have pronounced the law. But the legislature have made no such declaration, nor have they nsed any expression which is susceptible of such an exposition. But to learn what the law is, our attention is directed, not to the law itself, but to the state of the country. That, we are told, was an uninhabitable wilderness, a gloomy forest, the haunt of wild beasts, and environed with savages. This certainly affords no argument to show what the law is, nor does it even prove that the law ought to be such as is contended for. Laying aside all consideration of the absolute incongruity and absurdity of such a law, there can be no reason for it or utility in it. While the country continued to be an uninhabitable wilderness, it could be of no advantage to the claimant that he should be declared by law to be in the actual possession; and when the country became inhabitable he might acquire the possession without the aid of such a provision, by an actual entry upon the land, the only way in which nature has ordained that possession can be acquired. This he might do, not only when the country became inhabitable, but for twenty years after the tract claimed by him shall have been occupied by another adverse claimant. Whether, therefore, the country was inhabitable or not, when the grant was made, must be a matter of perfect indifference. *11 From the foregoing opinion Judge LOGAN dissents; but the Court being equally divided, the judgment of the Court below must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1813. Speed v. Buford 3 Bibb 57, 6 Ky. 57, 1813 WL 601 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
