(Cite as: 4 Bibb 307,  7 Ky. 307 (Ky.),  1816 WL 735 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jameson, etc. v. Smith's executors. Apr. 8, 1816. *1 A suit for land cannot be revived in the name of executors. A will authorizing executors to sell and convey land, confers only a naked authority and gives neither a right of property nor a right of action. West Headnotes Powers 307 k 25 307 Powers 307II Construction and Execution 307k24 Interest of Donee or Grantee 307k25 k. In General. Most Cited Cases A will which merely directs the executors to sell real estate of the testator, but does not devise it to them, gives them no estate therein, but a naked power, and the land vests in the devisees, or, if the will makes no other disposition thereof, it descends to the heirs, subject to the execution of the power. Abatement and Revival 2 k 72(3) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k72 Persons Required or Entitled to Continue or Revive  Action 2k72(3) k. Ejectment or Trespass to Try Title. Most  Cited Cases A suit for land cannot be revived in the name of executors, although the will gives them a right to sell and convey land. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge LOGAN absent. THE original bill in this case was filed by George S. Smith, claiming title under an entry in the name of John Mosby, against George Jameson and James Martin, holding the elder legal title, derived under an entry in the name of John Jameson. Smith having died during the progress of the cause, an order was made reviving the suit in the names of his executors, who filed a bill of revivor, which they afterward, on a motion for that purpose had leave to amend, and in their amended bill they prayed that the heirs of Smith might be made parties, and that a subpena should issue against them. A subpena issued accordingly, but no return was made on it. In this situation the cause was heard, and a decree pronounced by the Court below against the defendants, who have appealed to this Court. Before we examine the merits of the adverse claims, it is necessary to decide whether the executors had a right to revive and maintain the suit in their names: for if they had not, as it is apparent from the record that the heirs of Smith were not before the Court, and could not consequently be bound by any decree pronounced in the case, it would be obviously not only useless, but improper that the Court should express any opinion in relation to the merits of the adverse titles. It cannot be pretended that the executors could revive and maintain the suit in their names, independent of any right derived to them from the will of their testator; and we apprehend that there can be no doubt that the will in this case does not vest in them such a right. They are authorized by the will to sell and convey the land which is the subject of controversy, for certain purposes therein mentioned; but this is evidently but a naked authority, uncoupled with any right or interest in the land; and according to the settled principles, both of Courts of Law and of Equity, the right of property and the right of suit are inseparable concomitants. *2 The decree of the Court below must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that the order reviving the suit in the names of the executors may be set aside and their bill of revivor dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Jameson v. Smith's Ex'rs 4 Bibb 307, 7 Ky. 307, 1816 WL 735 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
