(Cite as: 4 Bibb 341,  7 Ky. 341 (Ky.),  1816 WL 758 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Milner v. Miller. May 23, 1816. *1 In debt on bond defendant pleads an affirmative plea and then makes default, a writ of inquiry will be awarded, and not a jury to try the issue. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 103 228 Judgment 228IV By Default 228IV(A) Requisites and Validity 228k103 k. Default of Appearance. Most Cited  Cases Where defendant in an action of debt pleads an affirmative plea, and then fails to appear at the term to which the case is continued, it is proper to render judgment against him by default. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of debt upon an obligation for the payment of money. The defendant appeared and pleaded, 1st, payment; 2dly, a setoff. And issues being thereupon joined, the cause was continued until the next term of the Court; when the defendant failing to appear, judgment was taken against him by default, and a writ of inquiry awarded, which being executed a final judgment was entered for the plaintiff. To reverse which, the defendant prosecutes this writ of error with supersedeas. The errors assigned question the correctness of taking judgment by default, and awarding a writ of inquiry, when issues were joined in the cause. Where the defendant pleads a negative plea upon which issue is joined, it is no doubt erroneous to take judgment by default, or to swear the jury to inquire of damages. It was accordingly so ruled by this Court in the case of Williams v. Cheek (Pr. Dec. 76). But the law appears to be well settled, if the defendant pleads an affirmative plea, and afterward makes default, that judgment may be given against him for the default. As in an action of debt, if the defendant pleads an acquittance or release, and after makes default, judgment shall be entered upon the default, because the duty is acknowledged--(7 Ven. Abr. 475). So in replevin, if the defendant avows, and afterward makes default, judgment shall be thereupon given for damages; because the taking and detention are acknowledged--(Ib.) In this case both the pleas of the defendant in the Court below are in the affirmative. They admit the obligation on which the action is founded, but contain matter in discharge of it. It was incumbent, therefore, on the defendant to have sustained his pleas by proof, and not having appeared for the purpose on the day given him by the Court, it was strictly correct to enter judgment against him for his default.-- Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. Milner v. Miller 4 Bibb 341, 7 Ky. 341, 1816 WL 758 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
