(Cite as: 4 Litt. 25,  14 Ky. 25 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1226 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jones and Gully v. Tevis. October 8, 1823. *1 FROM THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JAMES CLARKE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Action on the Case 14 k 1 14 Action on the Case 14k1 k. Nature and grounds of action. Most Cited Cases Parent and Child 285 k 7(1) 285 Parent and Child 285k7 Actions for Injuries To, Loss of Services, Control, or Society of Child 285k7(1) k. Right of action in general. Most Cited Cases An action on the case will lie in behalf of a mother, whose infant daughter has been enticed into a marriage without her consent, for the loss of the latter's services, but not for the procuring of the marriage. Action 13 k 30 13 Action 13II Nature and Form 13k29 Forms of Action at Common Law 13k30 k. Distinctions as to form. Most Cited  Cases Child Custody 76D k 965 76D Child Custody 76DXV Custodial Interference 76DXV(A) In General 76Dk965 k. In general. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 285k18) Trespass upon the case, not trespass vi et armis, is the proper action for loss of services of a daughter, enticed away. Child Custody 76D k 978 76D Child Custody 76DXV Custodial Interference 76DXV(A) In General 76Dk977 Persons Entitled to Sue 76Dk978 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 285k18) An action will lie in behalf of a father while living, and in behalf of the mother after his death, for enticing away an infant child, by which the parent lost her services. Witnesses 410 k 123 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k123 k. Evidence as to interest. Most Cited  Cases It is no objection to the admissibility of a witness that he has been heard to say, when not on oath, that he must pay the damages if any are recovered. Child Custody 76D k 967 76D Child Custody 76DXV Custodial Interference 76DXV(A) In General 76Dk966 Existence of Cause of Action 76Dk967 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 110k45.10, 3k19  Abduction) Parent and Child 285 k 7(1) 285 Parent and Child 285k7 Actions for Injuries To, Loss of Services, Control, or Society of Child 285k7(1) k. Right of action in general. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 110k45.10) No action will lie in behalf of a parent for procuring the marriage of an infant daughter without her parent's consent;  but an action will for enticing the daughter, by which plaintiff lost her services. BRECK and GENTRY for appellants; TURNER and CAPERTON for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action upon the case, brought by Nancy Tevis against John Jones and Elias Gully. Two counts are laid in the declaration. The first charges the defendants with having unlawfully enticed the plaintiff's infant daughter by her late husband, then deceased, from her, whereby she lost her service. The second charges them with having unlawfully enticed away from her, her infant daughter, and with having fraudulently procured license and induced her daughter, after her departure, to marry John Ford, against the will and consent of the plaintiff. The defendants pleaded the general issue, and on the trial, after the evidence on the part of the plaintiff had been closed, the defendants offered to introduce Ford and wife as witnesses; but the plaintiff objected, on the ground that Ford was interested, and to support the objection proved by a witness, the son and agent of the plaintiff in this case, that Ford had applied to the witness to get the suit compromised, and had stated to the witness that he had to pay the damages, or part of them, if any were recovered, and the court thereupon sustained the objection and rejected Ford and wife as witnesses to which the defendants excepted. A verdict and judgment were rendered for the plaintiff, to reverse which the defendants prosecute this writ of error. *2 No action will lie in behalf of a parent, for procuring the marriage of an infant child without the parent's consent. But an action will lie in behalf of the father while living, and in behalf of the mother after his death, for enticing away an infant, by which the parent lost her services. Such action must be trespass on the case; not trespass vi et armis. It is no objection to the admissibility of a witness, that he has been heard to say, when not on oath, that he must pay the damages, if any are recovered. It is a question of interest, for the determination of which an examination on voire dire is appropriate. The assignment of error involves several questions. The first we shall notice, is, whether the injury alleged in the declaration, is one for which an action will lie. Anciently, when military tenures existed in England, the father was entitled to what was called the value of the marriage of his son and heir, and the marrying of his son and heir without the father's consent, whereby during the continuance of those tenures, he lost the value of his marriage, was, therefore, a civil injury, for which an action would lie. But by the abolition of military tenures, this injury has ceased, together with the right upon which it was founded, and as this right never did exist as to his other children, it is clear that no action will now lie by the father for marrying any of his children without his consent. The declaration, however, in this case, charges the defendants not only with procuring the marriage of the plaintiff's daughter without her consent; but with enticing her daughter away from her, whereby she lost her service. Whether this last is a civil injury for which an action will lie, is more problematical. It is conceded on all hands, that prior to the abolition of military tenures, a father might maintain an action for the abduction of his son and heir at law; but there was a difference of opinion whether he could do so for the abduction of any other child besides the heir; some holding that he could not, upon the supposition, that the only ground or cause of action, was losing the value of the heir's marriage; and others holding that an action would lie for taking away any of the children, because the parent had an interest in them all. This difference of opinion amongst the jurists of England, was never settled by any direct adjudication of the courts of that country, even up to the time when Blackstone published his commentaries. He, however, thought that the action might be maintained for the abduction of any of the children and of the two this appears to be the better opinion, being more consistent with analogy and with the reason of the law. If, as was supposed by those who maintained the opinion that an action would not lie for the abduction of any child except the heir, the injury consisted in the loss of the value of the heir's marriage, the writ given in such case, would have mentioned the loss of the value of the marriage, or some fact from which the loss would have been necessarily implied; but in the form of the writ given in Fitzherbert's N. Brevium, page 90, which was allowed by law in such case, there is no mention of the loss of the value of the marriage, nor of any fact from which it could be necessarily implied. The writ goes for the abduction only, and there might be an abduction without a marriage, and of course, the loss of the value of the marriage, can not be implied. The writ must, therefore, have been allowed upon some other ground than that of the abduction injuring the parent by the loss of the value of the heir's marriage, and we can conceive of no other ground upon which the writ could have been allowed by law, but that of the injury done to the right of the parent to the service of his child. If he has such a right, it must be a right to the services of all the children equally, and that he has such right, there can be no doubt. It is a right which grows necessarily out of the reciprocal relation of parent and child. The parent is bound to maintain, to protect and to educate his children, and in return he is entitled to their obedience and service. It is upon this principle, he has been allowed to maintain an action for a loss of service, occasioned by beating or imprisoning his child, or by debauching and getting his daughter with child; and upon the same principle, he must have a right to recover for a loss of service occasioned by the abduction of his child. The right to maintain an action for injuries of this sort, no doubt belongs exclusively to the father during his life; but after his death, the mother being the only parent, is, in contemplation of law, guardian by nature to the children, in which relation she is bound to them by the same duties, and has in them the same rights, as the father during his life, unless there be some other guardian appointed--Hargrave, Note 66 to Co. Lit. 74. The plaintiff in this case, after the marriage of her daughter, could have no right to her services; for the marriage, though procured by unlawful means, was, nevertheless, valid, and unquestionably gave to the husband of the daughter, from the time it took place, a right to her company and services. But this is a matter which goes only in extenuation of the quantum of recovery and does not extinguish the right to recover for the loss of services which had previously happened. The injury, therefore, is one for which an action will lie. *3 Acc. Reeves on Dom. Rel. 293. The next question involved in the assignment of error which we shall notice, is, whether the action ought not to have been trespass vi et armis, instead of trespass on the case. There might have been some doubt if the loss of service had been occasioned by taking away the daughter of the plaintiff by force, whether the action should not have been trespass vi et armis. Even in that case, however, there are strong reasons in favor of bringing it upon the case--See Tidd's Practice 6. But as no forcible taking is alleged here, and the loss of service appears to have been occasioned by enticing her away, the action upon the case is clearly proper. The only other question presented by the assignment of error which we shall notice, grows out of the exception taken by the defendant, to the rejection by the circuit court of Ford and wife as witnesses. In this we think that court erred. The declaration of Ford out of court, and when not upon oath, that he had to pay the damages or part of them, was but mere hearsay, and evidently incompetent to prove his interest. Ford should have been sworn on his voire dire, or other competent evidence of his interest should have been introduced, before he could have been excluded. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for a new trial to be had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Jones v. Tevis 4 Litt. 25, 14 Ky. 25, 1823 WL 1226 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 98 END OF DOCUMENT
