(Cite as: 3 Bibb 467,  6 Ky. 467 (Ky.),  1814 WL 830 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jones and Lee v. Bullock, etc. Oct. 17, 1814. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 344 150 Equity 150V Evidence 150k338 Answer as Evidence 150k344 k. For or Against Codefendant. Most Cited  Cases Evidence 157 k 222(10) 157 Evidence 157VII Admissions 157VII(B) By Parties or Others Interested in Event 157k221 Parties of Record 157k222 In  General 157k222(10) k. Coparties. Most Cited  Cases An answer of one defendant is not evidence against his co-defendant. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 BULLOCK having obtained a judgment for 30l. in one action against Simpson, and having instituted another action against him, Hawkins and Gaunt, Simpson filed his bill with injunction to stay proceedings in those suits; and the plaintiffs in error, together with Lewis Jones, became his securities in the injunction bond. The injunction being afterward dissolved, Bullock proceeded in the suit pending at law and recovered a judgment for 60l. That judgment Bullock transferred to Moore, and Moore having died his administrator brought suit on the injunction bond and recovered a judgment for 128l. 11s. being the amount of the two first mentioned judgments, with interest and costs; but of this judgment there was a release entered for 41l. 8s. To stay proceedings upon the last judgment the plaintiffs in error filed their bill, in which they allege the payment for 30l. to Bullock, and that Gaunt had paid the judgment for 60l. to Moore in his lifetime, and that Moore had directed an execution which had been levied upon a lot to be stayed, and transferred the benefit thereof to Gaunt. The answer of one defendant cannot be admitted as evidence against another. Stay of execution by the creditor, when levied on the property of the principal, without the privity or consent of the securities, will operate a release to the securities. Simpson and Lewis Jones are not made parties, but they are alleged to have departed from the jurisdiction of this Commonwealth. Bullock admits in his answer the payment of the 30l. judgment to him. He also admits the transfer of the judgment for 60l. to Moore; and states that Moore in a conversation with him acknowledged that Gaunt had paid or satisfied him for his (Gaunt's) part of the judgment. Gaunt alleges in his answer that he had satisfied Moore, and Moore had transferred the judgment to him. Moore's administrator states that he knows nothing of the truth of the allegations of the bill, and requires full proof thereof. On a final hearing the Court below decreed the injunction to be dissolved with costs and damages; to which decree this writ of error is prosecuted. It is clear that the judgment for 30l. has been paid, but the credit or release entered upon the judgment obtained upon the injunction bond, is sufficient to cover the amount of that judgment, with interest and costs. The main question therefore is, whether the judgment for 60l. has been paid, or the plaintiffs in error otherwise discharged therefrom? That the evidence is not sufficient to prove a direct payment of the judgment, admits of but little doubt. Bullock's answer is certainly not legitimate evidence against Moore or his representatives; for it is an established rule that the answer of one defendant cannot be admitted as evidence against another. Gaunt's answer is inadmissible, not only upon the same principle, but because he was a party against whom the judgment was obtained; and to permit his answer to establish the fact of payment, would be allowing him to make evidence for himself. But a letter addressed by Moore to the clerk of the Court is principally relied on to prove the payment. In this letter Moore says, "Mr. Gaunt wishes to have the benefit of the execution--he has not paid me, but has acted honorably as to part;" and then directs the clerk to let him have an execution. This letter, though admissible evidence, so far from proving that the judgment was paid, is a direct negation of the fact. The expression that he (Gaunt) "had acted honorably as to part," strongly indeed implies that a part had been paid or secured; but what part, is left wholly indefinite and uncertain; and upon proof thus vague and uncertain the Court cannot act. *2 Another circumstance upon which some reliance was placed, as affording evidence that the judgment in question had been paid, is the direction of Moore to stay the execution after it had been levied upon a lot. But certainly no presumption of payment can be inferred from this circumstance. It rather implies that the execution was not satisfied; for if such had been the fact, it would have been a much more natural as well as a much more obvious means of attaining the object in view, to have directed the sheriff to have so returned it. This circumstance, however, notwithstanding we reject it as well as the other circumstances of the case, as being insufficient to establish the fact of a direct payment of the judgment, presents itself in another point of view, operating in our opinion more favorably to the pretensions of the complainants. They are but securities, and the execution which was levied upon the property of the principal debtors was postponed by the creditor without the privity or consent of the complainants. This course of proceeding evidently tends to their prejudice as securities; and it is a principle recognized by Courts of Chancery and perfectly consonant to the dictates of natural justice, that any arrangement between the creditor and principal debtor, for the easement of the latter and to the prejudice of the securities, will, if the securities be not privy to or approve of such arrangement, operate in equity to release them from their responsibility. On this principle the Court of Appeals of Virginia, in the case of  Bullitt's executor v. Winston, 1 Munf. 269, held that the creditor, where he had directed the sheriff to put off the sale of the property taken in execution and suffered it to remain in the hands of the principal, thereby released the security: and the case of  Bard v. Rice, 1 Call 18, was decided upon the same principle. The decree must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that a decree may be entered making the injunction perpetual. Ky.App. 1814. Jones v. Bullock 3 Bibb 467, 6 Ky. 467, 1814 WL 830 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
