(Cite as: 4 Litt. 272,  14 Ky. 272 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1277 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Winlock v. Hardy. Nov. 26, 1823. *1 FROM THE BARREN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. CHRISTOPHER TOMPKINS SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Trial 388 k 47(.5) 388 Trial 388IV Reception of Evidence 388IV(A) Introduction, Offer, and Admission of Evidence in General 388k44 Offer of Proof 388k47 Offer Following Objection and Ruling  Thereon 388k47(.5) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 388k47) If a deed offered in evidence does not appear to be relevant, and is objected to on that account, the party offering it must show its relevancy. Acknowledgment 12 k 19 12 Acknowledgment 12II Taking and Certificate 12k14 Authority to Take 12k19 k. Extraterritorial Authority. Most Cited Cases The certificate of the clerk of the county court of a county other than that in which the land is situated, of the acknowledgment of a deed before him, was not evidence of its execution. Acknowledgment 12 k 54 12 Acknowledgment 12III Operation and Effect 12k54 k. Admissibility of Instrument in Evidence. Most Cited Cases The certificate of the clerk of the county court of a county other than that in which the land is situated, of the acknowledgment of a deed before him, was not evidence of its execution so as to entitle it to be read in evidence without proof. Deeds 120 k 85 120 Deeds 120II Recording and Registration 120k85 k. Time. Most Cited Cases A deed not recorded within the time prescribed by law cannot be received in evidence as a recorded deed. Estoppel 156 k 29 156 Estoppel 156II By Deed 156II(A) Creation and Operation in General 156k29 k. Grantees. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 156k29(1)) A grantee is not estopped from denying his grantor's title. Evidence 157 k 99 157 Evidence 157IV Admissibility in General 157IV(A) Facts in Issue and Relevant to Issues 157k99 k. Relevancy in General. Most Cited  Cases The court should confine the evidence to relevant matters, and should not, as a rule, admit evidence of collateral matters. Evidence 157 k 370(4) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k370 Necessity in  General 157k370(4) k. Conveyances, Contracts, and Other  Writings in General. Most Cited Cases A deed certified by the clerk of the court of another county cannot be read in evidence without proof of its execution. CRITTENDEN for appellant; SHARP for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. *2 This was an ejectment for land lying in Barren county, where the suit was brought. On the trial, the lessor of the plaintiff produced in evidence a patent from the commonwealth to Thomas Marshall, for the land in controversy, and a deed of conveyance from Marshall to Susanna M'Clung, wife of William M'Clung, and offered to read in evidence an instrument purporting to be a deed of conveyance from M'Clung and wife, bearing date the 15th of December, 1807, to James Hughes, and certified by the clerk of Mason county court, to have been acknowledged by M'Clung and wife, before him, in his office, on the 26th day of December, 1807, and by the clerk of Barren county court, to have been recorded in his office on the 24th day of April, 1810. To the reading of this deed as evidence, the defendant objected, without further proof was given of its execution, and the court sustained the objection. A deed certified from one county to another, can not be read in evidence on the clerk's certificate, without proof. If such deed is not recorded within the time prescribed by law, it can not be treated as a recorded deed. Irrelevancy of evidence to the matter in issue, is sufficient cause for rejecting it. This decision, we have no doubt, was correct. The certificate of the clerk of Mason county, of the acknowledgment of the deed before him, most certainly could not be received as evidence of its execution, so as to entitle it to be read; for, as was decided in the case of Andres v.  Turner, (2 Litt. Rep. 237,) it is only for the special purpose of admitting a deed to record in the proper office of the county where the land lies, that the certificate of the clerk of any other county, of the acknowledgment of the grantor, is authorized by law. Nor was the deed entitled to be read in evidence as an enrolled deed; for the deed was not recorded in the county of Barren, where the land lies, for more than two years after it was certified by the clerk of Mason county court; whereas the law expressly requires it to be recorded within eight months thereafter; and it is settled by a current of decisions, that a deed not recorded in the time prescribed by law, cannot be read as an enrolled deed, and of course, to render it admissible, its execution must be proved, as well as that of any other unrecorded instrument. If a deed offered does not appear to be relevant, and is objected to on that account, the party offering it must show its relevancy. A deed held not to operate as an estoppel. After the deed from M'Clung and wife to Hughes was rejected, the lessor of the plaintiff offered in evidence a deed from Thomas Hardy to Isham Hardy, having previously produced in evidence a judgment and execution against Isham Hardy, and a deed from the sheriff of Barren county to the lessor of the plaintiff, as a purchaser undr the execution; but the defendant objected to the reading of the deed from Thomas Hardy to Isham Hardy, upon the ground that it was irrelevant, and the circuit court sustained the objection, and rejected the deed. *3 This decision, we are also of opinion, was correct. The irrelevancy of any matter to the point in issue, is clearly a good objection to its admissibility as evidence; for, from the nature of evidence, nothing can be so denominated, which does not demonstrate, make clear or ascertain the point in issue. Now, the point in issue in this case, was, whether the lessor of the plaintiff had title or not; and, most unquestionably, the deed from Thomas Hardy to Isham Hardy, without showing that the former had title, could not show that any title had passed from him, and of course could not show a title in the lessor of the plaintiff; for, certainly, the mere act of executing a deed of conveyance cannot create a presumption of title in the vender. But, were it even to be admitted that such a presumption would be thereby created, it is sufficiently repelled, in this case, by the evidence which had been produced by the lessor of the plaintiff, showing title in Mrs. M'Clung, without exhibiting any legitimate proof of her having parted with it. We areaware, that title to land is often derived through a long succession of conveyances; and, no doubt, a party, making out this title through such a succession of conveyances, may exhibit them in any order he chooses; but if he elects to produce any of them in an order in which its connection with the title does not appear, and it is objected to on the score of its irrelevancy, he must, to show its connection and obviate the objection, produce, or offer to produce, the residue of the series of conveyances, which constitute the evidence of his title; for otherwise, that which is objected to cannot appear to be relevant, and what does not appear, we cannot presume to exist. The lessor of the plaintiff lastly offered to read a deed for the land in controversy, from Isham Hardy to the defendant, his son, and proved that the defendant claimed to have purchased the land from his father, and promised to pay the debt due to the lessor of the plaintiff, if he would not sell the land under his execution; but the deed being objected to by the defendant, the circuit court sustained the objection and excluded the deed. It is impossible that this deed could be material, unless it would operate as an estoppel to the defendant, to deny that Isham Hardy had title; and in fact this appears to have been the only ground on which it was contended to be admissible. But we can perceive no principle upon which it could have that effect. It is not the deed of the defendant, but of Isham Hardy only, by whom alone it is executed; and not being the deed of the defendant, it cannot, as a deed, operate to estop him from denying that the grantor had title. Nor can the deed create any relation between the parties to it, whereby the defendant would be estopped. We know, that a tenant cannot deny the title of his landlord; nor can a person who enters upon land in virtue of an executory contract of purchase, deny the right of him under whom he enters, for he is, quasi, a tenant holding only in virtue of his vender's title and by his permission. But the deed in question is an executed grant to the defendant in fee simple, and he holds, not as tenant of the grantor, but in his own right and for his own benefit, and his possession is adverse to his grantor, as well as to the rest of the world. He cannot, therefore, be under any greater obligation not to dispute his grantor's title, than he is not to dispute the title of any other person.____Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Winlock v. Hardy 4 Litt. 272, 14 Ky. 272, 1823 WL 1277 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
