(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 1,  17 Ky. 1 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1458 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Commonwealth for the use of Kennet v. Fugate. Oct. 5, 1824. *1 Appeal, County Creditor, Sheriff. APPEAL FROM THE PENDLETON CIRCUIT COURT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Taxation 371 k 2830 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(K) Collection and Enforcement Against Persons or Personal Property 371III(K)1 In General 371k2830 k. Actions on Official Bonds. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 371k570(3)) An action will not lie in the name of the state, for the use of a county creditor, on the bond given for the collection of a county levy. Appeal and Error 30 k 119 30 Appeal and Error 30III Decisions Reviewable 30III(E) Nature, Scope, and Effect of Decision 30k119 k. Relating to Costs. Most Cited  Cases No appeal lies from a decree or judgment for costs and expenses. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Statement of the case. This was an action of debt, in the name of the commonwealth, for the use of Kennet, the relator, against Fugate, as surviving obligor, upon a bond given by the sheriff of Pendleton, with Fugate and others as his sureties, for the collection of the county levy for the year 1820. Breaches of the condition of the bond are assigned in the failure of the sheriff to collect and pay to Kennet, several sums of money allowed him by the county court, and directed to be paid out of the county levy to be collected in the year for which the bond was given. On several issues joined to the country, a verdict was found for the plaintiff, for $111 12 1-2; but the circuit court, on the motion of the defendant, arrested the judgment on the verdict, and gave judgment against Kennet, for costs, from which he has appealed to this court. The sole question presented by the record, worthy of any serious consideration, is, whether the action is maintainable. (1.) In deciding this question, we shall assume the fact to be, that the action, though in the name of the commonwealth, to whom the bond is given, is not brought at her instance, or for her benefit; but at the instance and for the benefit of Kennet, as relator. This is indeed apparent from the writ and declaration; and were it otherwise, the appeal would not lie; for the appeal is taken by Kennet, and not by the commonwealth; and upon the supposition that the suit was brought for the benefit of the commonwealth, there would be no judgment against Kennet, except for costs, from which an appeal to this court will not lie. (1) Appeal does not lie from a judgment for costs only. (2.) The right of Kennet to maintain the action as relator, must, if it exist, be founded either upon some statutory provision or upon the principles of the common law. Of the existence of any statutory provision giving such right, we are unapprised. (2) Action can not be maintained in the name of the Common-wealth, for the use of a county creditor, on the sheriff's bond for the collection of the county levy. Motion in the county court is the remedy. *2 The act of assembly concerning county levies, gives to a creditor of the county, for the recovery of what may be due to him, a remedy by motion in the county court, against the sheriff or collector, or his sureties; but it gives no right to a creditor or to maintain an action upon the bond for the collection of the county levy. 2 Dig. 853, &c. Nor are we aware of any other act of the legislature, which gives such right. On other bonds executed by the sheriff for the performance of his duties, the legislature has expressly provided that any individual may, at his instance and for his benefit, maintain an action for a breach of the condition, to his prejudice; but this certainly does not warrant the conclusion, that such an action can be maintained upon the bond for the collection of the county levy. On the contrary, as the legislature has made an express provision, giving the right, in the former case, to sue upon the bonds, and has made no such provision in the latter case, the natural and rational inference is, that the right to sue in the latter case was not intended to be given. Kennet's right to maintain the action, therefore, can not be founded upon any statutory provision; and we conceive his right to do so, has as little foundation upon the principles of the common law. (3.) It is perfectly clear, according to the principles of the common law, that none but parties or privies can maintain an action upon a contract in their own names; nor can any one use the names of parties or privies to a contract, but by their authority. Now, it can not be pretended that Kennet is a party or privy to the contract in this case, and an authority to use the name of the commonwealth, could only be given by some public functionary, having power to confer it, and we know of no public functionary having such power. (3) No public functionary has power to confer an authority to use the name of the Commonwealth in an action for the benefit of an individual. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs. Bibb, for appellant; Sharp, attorney-general, and Rout, for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Commonwealth v. Fugate 1 T.B.Mon. 1, 17 Ky. 1, 1824 WL 1458 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
