(Cite as: 3 Bibb 258,  6 Ky. 258 (Ky.),  1814 WL 746 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Terril v. Cockeril. Apr. 7, 1814. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 111 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k110 Wrongful Levy or Other Taking of Property 353k111 k. In General. Most Cited Cases Act Dec. 27, 1803, providing that where goods had been seized by virtue of an execution, and an inquest taken to ascertain the owner, the verdict of the jury protects "the sheriff or other officer" from all liability, includes constables. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 120 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k120 k. Irregular or Invalid Sale. Most Cited Cases Where an inquest taken by an officer finds the property to belong to the debtor, that inquest discharges the officer from all liability for selling the property, though it be the property of a stranger. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THE only question in this case is whether a constable, where he has, by virtue of an execution, seized and sold property claimed by a stranger, can protect himself from a recovery in an action brought by such stranger, by showing that previous to the sale he had summoned a jury to inquire of the right of property, and that by their verdict they had found the right to be in the defendant in the execution? If the inquest taken by an officer finds the property to belong to the debtor that inquest discharges the officer from all liability for selling the property although it be the property of a stranger. A constable is within the provisions of this statute. It is evident that he could not do so upon principles of the common law. Where an officer had taken property under an execution, and the property was claimed by a stranger, such officer might at common law summon a jury to inquire into the right; and their verdict, if against the claimant, though it should ultimately turn out to be erroneous, would shield the officer from the payment of vindictive damages; but he would nevertheless be bound to make compensation to the injured party, according to the actual loss sustained. But by the act of assembly passed 27th December, 1803, the verdict of a jury in such a case completely protects "the sheriff or other officer" from all liability. It is, however, contended that the expression "or other officer," as used in the act, is exclusively applicable to the coroner. But as the expression literally embraces the case of a constable, and as the reason of the law clearly applies as well to him as to the coroner, we can perceive no principle upon which the expression can with propriety be restrained to the latter in exclusion of the former. We are therefore of opinion that the Court below correctly decided that the law authorized the constable to summon a jury in such case. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Terril v. Cockeril 3 Bibb 258, 6 Ky. 258, 1814 WL 746 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
