(Cite as: 3 Bibb 304,  6 Ky. 304 (Ky.),  1814 WL 770 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ward's heirs v. Harrison, etc. Apr. 14, 1814. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 115 142 Ejectment 142IV Trial, Judgment, Enforcement of Judgment, and Review 142k113 Judgment 142k115 k. Partial Recovery. Most Cited Cases A plaintiff in ejectment, suing for an undivided interest in land, may recover an interest less than the one sued for. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS was an action of trespass and ejectment. The demise is laid in the declaration to be jointly made by the lessors of the plaintiff, as heirs of William Ward, dec'd. The appellees being admitted defendants upon entering into the common rule, pleaded not guilty, upon which issue was joined and a verdict was taken for the plaintiff, subject to the opinion of the Court upon an agreed case. In ejectment if plaintiff declares upon a demise for the whole tract in severalty, he may recover according to the interest of the lessor an undivided part. If the demise is laid from two heirs and it appears that there were three, yet the plaintiff shall recover an undivided interest of two thirds. It was admitted that a patent for the land in controversy issue to William Ward, who subsequently to the emanation died, leaving the lessors of the plaintiff and Jane Darland, late Jane Ward, his legitimate children and heirs at law, and that the said Jane is still living; and it was agreed if the said Jane should have been joined with the lessors of the plaintiff, and they could not maintain their action without her, or if the defendant could take advantage of said facts disclosed by the plaintiff's evidence on the trial by ??non-suit or otherwise, that judgment should be given for the defendants; but if the Court should be of a different opinion, that judgment should be entered for the plaintiff. The Court being of opinion that the law was for the defendants gave judgment as in case of a non-suit: from which this appeal is prosecuted. We can see no objection upon principle to the plaintiff maintaining the action upon the demise of the lessors, without the other coparcener having joined, nor are we aware of any precedent or authority opposed to the maintainance of the action. It is true that in real actions coparceners as well as joint tenants must join and be joined; but there is very little or no analogy in principle between an action of ejectment and a real action. Anciently an action of ejectment would only lie to recover the possession of a term for years, and the demise was laid in the declaration as it in fact existed; and although in modern times it has been applied to the recovery of the possession of freehold estate, by supposing a fictitious lease, entry and ouster, yet it will still lie for a term of years without the aid of such a fiction. In such a case, if there be a lease, an entry and ouster in fact, as laid in the declaration, it will only be necessary for the plaintiff, to entitle himself to a recovery, to show that his lessor had such an estate in the premises as would enable him to make the lease. So where the fiction is substituted in place of the fact, it would seem necessarily to follow that the same kind of proof as to the estate of the lessor would be sufficient. That the lessors of the plaintiff in this case might, without joining with the other coparcener, make a lease which would be good to the extent of their interest, we have no doubt: for it is expressly laid down that coparceners may lease either jointly or severally--4 Cruise's Digest, 118, and the authorities there cited. If a lease from them would be valid, it clearly results that their lessee, in case of eviction, might maintain an ejectment for his term. *2 That the declaration is for the whole in severalty, and the title shown is for an undivided part only, is no objection to a recovery according to the title. The rule in this respect is, that the plaintiff may recover less, though he cannot recover more than he claims by his declaration. Thus where the declaration was for a morety, and the verdict for a third part, the plaintiff had judgment according to the verdict--1 Burrow 330. So where the declaration was for the fourth part of a fifth part, and the title proven was only to a third part of a fourth part of a fifth part, which was only a third part of that which was demanded by the declaration, the Court determined that the verdict might be taken according to the title--1 Sid. 239, cited in Run. upon Ejectments, 245. So it was held by this Court in the case of Davis v. Whitesides (vol. 1, 510), that although the plaintiff declared for the whole in severalty, and proved himself entitled to an undivided moiety only, he might notwithstanding recover according to his title. Upon the general principles, therefore, which ought to govern the proceedings in an action of ejectment, there can be no solid objection to the plaintiff's recovery in this case. But if the proceedings were supposed to be analogous to the proceedings in real actions, still we would be of opinion that the plaintiff would be entitled to judgment upon the case agreed: for the failure in such case to join the other coparcener, would be only matter of abatement, and could not be taken advantage of upon the general issue. The judgment must be reversed with costs and the cause remanded that judgment may be entered upon the verdict for the plaintiff in that Court. Ky.App. 1814. Ward's Heirs v. Harrison 3 Bibb 304, 6 Ky. 304, 1814 WL 770 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
