(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 209,  17 Ky. 209 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1533 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gore v. Buck. Dec. 13, 1824. *1 ??terest, Demand, Verdict, Damages. ERROR TO THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 530 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k528 Amount of Recovery 56k530 k. Interest. Most Cited Cases Where a note is executed within the state, the debt, as a matter of law, bears interest from the day it falls due, and a jury is not necessary to determine this question. Interest 219 k 47(1) 219 Interest 219III Time and Computation 219k47 Commencement of Action 219k47(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where interest runs from the date of demand, and no demand has been made, interest will be allowed from the date of commencement of suit. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action by petition, on a note bearing ??te the 20th of May, 1820, for the payment of four hun??ed and sixty-four dollars on demand. Judgment was ??ken by default, and a writ of inquiry awarded. The ??ry found one cent in damages, and final judgment ??as thereupon entered for the debt, with interest from ??e date of the note until paid, together with the dam??es assessed by the jury, and costs. To that judgment ??e defendant in the circuit court prosecutes this writ ?? error. Interest does not commence running on a debt payable on demand, until a demand is made. Institution of the suit is a demand. The judgment is clearly erroneous, in being entered ?? interest from the date of the note. The debt being ??yable on demand, interest could not commence run??g, until a demand was made. This has been, for ??any years the established rule of decision in this ??urt, from which we do not conceive ourselves now at ??erty to depart. Interest on a debt contracted out of the state, is matter of fact, which must be ascertained by a jury.--Arg. The commencement of the suit is, however, a demand, ??d from that date the debt ought to bear interest; and ??e court might, without the intervention of a jury, ??ve directed the judgment to be entered for interest, ??cordingly. Where the note is executed within the state, the debt, as matter of law, bears interest from the day it falls due. But it is contended, that as a jury was sworn to en??ire of damages, and have found one cent, the judg??nt could only be entered for the damages so found ?? the jury, without interest. Such, no doubt, would be the correct doctrine, where the action is found?? upon a note given in a sister state or a foreign count?? for in that case, it is matter of fact, and not of la?? what interest the debt should bear, and of course ?? intervention of a jury is necessary to ascertain the fa?? But on a note given, as in the present case, in t?? state, the debt, as matter of law, bears interest fr?? the time the principal is payable, and the intervent?? of a jury is unneccessary and superfluous. *2 Where the debt bears interest as matter of law, and the jury sworn to enquire of damages, assess less than the sum allowed by law, the court ought to disregard the verdict and give judgment for interest according to the law of the case. In such case, therefore, where the damages fou?? by the jury are less than the interest allowed by la?? the court ought to disregard the finding of the ju?? and direct judgment to be entered for interest acco??ing to the law in the case. The judgment reversed with costs, and the cause?? manded, for judgment to be entered for interest fr?? the commencement of the suit, instead of from the d?? of the note. Monroe, for plaintiff; Swigert, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Gore v. Buck 1 T.B.Mon. 209, 17 Ky. 209, 1824 WL 1533 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
