(Cite as: 3 Bibb 85,  6 Ky. 85 (Ky.),  1813 WL 608 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jackson v. Berry. Jun. 3, 1813. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 339 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k339 k. Denials and Admissions. Most Cited  Cases In a suit on a note payable in goods on request, and a special request is averred, a special plea denying the request is allowable. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS was an action of assumpsit upon a note without seal for the payment of property. The declaration alleges the note to have been made upon a valuable consideration, without setting forth what the consideration was. It also alleges that the property was payable on request, and states a special request and refusal to pay. The defendant appeared and offered a plea denying the special request laid in the declaration; but the plaintiff objected to filing it, and the Court sustained the objection, to which the defendant excepted. An interlocutory judgment by nil dicit was then taken, and a writ of inquiry being executed a final judgment was given against the defendant, to which he prosecutes this writ of error. Action will not lie upon a note for the payment of property, without averring a consideration--which must be set forth. On a note for the payment of property on request, and a special request laid, a special plea denying the request admissible. Two questions arise in this case--1. Whether the consideration of the promise laid in the declaration is sufficiently alleged? 2. Whether the plea offered by the defendant in the action was substantially a good one? Upon neither of these questions do we entertain any doubt. That an action will not lie upon a note for the payment of property, without averring a consideration, is too well settled to admit of controversy; and it is evident wherever it is necessary to aver a consideration, that it must be set forth as well that the Court may judge of the sufficiency of the consideration, as that the defendant may be apprised of the nature and foundation of the plaintiff's demand, and be thereby enabled to meet it. The plea, we think, is substantially good. A special request was in this case necessary to give to the plaintiff a right of action, and was consequently traversable. It is true that according to the modern practice the defendant might, under the general issue, put the plaintiff to the proof of such a request; but it does not follow that it might not be traversed by a general plea; for many things which may be given in evidence under the general issue, may also be specially pleaded; and this, we apprehend, is of that description. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that new proceedings may be had not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1813. Jackson v. Berry 3 Bibb 85, 6 Ky. 85, 1813 WL 608 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
