(Cite as: 2 Bibb 17,  5 Ky. 17 (Ky.),  1810 WL 626 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ditto v. Commonwealth. Spring Term, 1810. *1 New trial not to be granted on the ground of surprise, to let in testimony which the party surprised had in his power before the trial, but neglected to produce. Where a road has been opened under an order of Court, upon indictment for resisting the overseer in repairing and widening the road, the defendant cannot go into the inquiry whether the road was opened in a right line between two objects as the order directed. West Headnotes Criminal Law 110 k 939(1) 110 Criminal Law 110XXI Motions for New Trial 110k937 Newly Discovered Evidence 110k939 Diligence 110k939(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Newly discovered evidence is not ground for new trial, in the absence of a showing that such evidence could not, by reasonable diligence, have been had on the trial. Highways 200 k 53(1) 200 Highways 200I Establishment 200I(B) Establishment by Statute or Statutory Proceedings 200k53 Judgment or Order Establishing Road 200k53(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Upon an indictment for resisting an overseer in repairing and widening a road, which has been opened under an order of court, the defendant cannot go into the inquiry whether the road was opened in a right line between two objects, as the order directed. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an indictment for obstructing the surveyor of a public road in the execution of his duty. On the trial it appeared that the County Court had established a road, which in part was directed to pass "from the mouth of Allison's lane to the mouth of Carr's lane, and to intersect the Frankfort road near the mouth of Carr's lane;" that a road about wide enough for a wagon to pass had been cleared and kept in repair purporting to be by virtue of the said establishment, and that when the surveyor was about to open that narrow way to the breadth of thirty feet, Ditto would not permit him to work upon that part of it which passed through his land. The witnesses proved that, in their opinion, the road was nearly direct, but if any difference, that a direct way from the mouth of Allison's lane to the mouth of Carr's lane would pass further into Ditto's land. A verdict was found against Ditto, who then procured an actual survey and plat to be made, exhibiting the objects mentioned in the order establishing the road, and the place where the resistance was made to the surveyor in opening it. From this plat, which was admitted to be correct, it appears that the witnesses were mistaken as to the course of the road, as well as in their apprehensions that a direct line would pass further into Ditto's land. Upon producing this additional evidence, Ditto moved for a new trial, but his motion was overruled, and judgment rendered against him for the fine assessed by the jury. A writ of error prosecuted by Ditto having come on to be heard at last term, and a decision given in his favor, on the motion of the attorney-general in behalf of the Commonwealth, a rehearing was granted. *2 Upon the most careful examination of the subject, we are convinced that the former opinion of this Court is incorrect. It is predicated upon the idea, that the course of the road was material, and that the mistake of the witness as to its direction could not have been reasonably anticipated by Ditto, and must have operated as a surprise. The fact of the resistance to the surveyor, does not appear to have been controverted; and if to show the illegality of the resistance, it were necessary, on the part of the Commonwealth, to have proved that the road attempted to be opened passed in a direct line from one object to the other, mentioned in the order of establishment, the production of such proof ought to have been expected by Ditto, and could not have surprised him. If relying upon the inability of the Commonwealth to produce evidence of this kind, Ditto failed to procure testimony which he had in his power, of the departure of the road from a direct line, on which he relied for his justification or excuse, it cannot furnish a ground for a new trial. The case of Cook v. Berry, 1 Wils. Rep. 98, strongly proves this position. That was assumpsit upon a promissory note; the defendant pleaded accord and satisfaction and had a verdict; the plaintiff moved for a new trial, upon an affidavit that he took the plea to be a sham one, and that he had a letter of the defendant, acknowledging the money to be due on the note, and that he would pay it, but which letter the plaintiff did not produce on the trial, thinking the plea was a sham, and that the defendant could not possibly prove it. But the Court overruled the motion for a new trial and declared that new trials are never granted upon the motion of a party, where it appears he might have produced material evidence at the trial if it had not been his own fault; because it would tend to introduce perjury, and there would never be an end to causes if once a door was opened to such a practice--See also to this purpose 2 Salk. 647, 653, 1 Blac. Rep. 298; 1 Stra. 691. In the present case it is not pretended that Ditto could not have produced on the trial evidence of the fact upon which he relied on the motion; in the nature of things it was practicable to have done so. The map could have been procured with as much facility before as after the trial, and its non production can be ascribed only to his negligence or inattention. But an unanswerable objection to granting a new trial, is to be found in the immateriality of the fact on which the motion was founded. That the place where Ditto resisted the surveyor, was out of a direct course from one object to the other, mentioned in the order establishing the road, though true in fact, would not legalize the resistance. The road had been cleared and kept in repair under the order establishing it, and the surveyor when obstructed, was only opening it to the breadth that the law required. To indulge a presumption that every departure of a public road from a right line, was a departure from the ground on which it was located by its establishment, would be as contrary to law, as to sound policy; such a doctrine, if established, would be utterly subversive of the whole police of the country, with respect to public roads. But absurd and impolitic as this doctrine is, without its admission, the justification set up by Ditto, can receive no countenance.--Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1810. Ditto v. Commonwealth 2 Bibb 17, 5 Ky. 17, 1810 WL 626 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
