(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 188,  17 Ky. 188 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1524 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Marshall v. Pendleton. Dec. 15, 1824. *1 Entries, Parties, Specific Execution, Practice. APPEAL FROM THE CLARK CIRCUIT; JAMES CLARK, JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 209 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(A) As to Each Other 400k209 k. Reconveyance by Purchaser to Vendor. Most Cited  Cases A., holding a conveyance, without warranty, from the junior patentee, conveyed to B. with warranty.  B. was ejected by C., the senior patentee, and A. repaid him his purchase money, with interest. The junior patent being afterwards established, it was held that A. had a right to a reconveyance from B. and to be relieved against the elder patent. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. The entry under which the appellee, who was complainant in the circuit court, derives title in this case, is amply supported by the evidence, according to the principles of the cases of Estill v. Hart's heirs, Hard, 576,  Kennedy v. Bruce, 2 Bibb 373,  Carson v. Hanway, 3 Bibb 161, Fishback v. Major. 1 Marsh. 147. And if the entry be valid, then there can be no difficulty in the complainant's right to relief against the elder patent under which the defendant, Marshall, derives ti??le, and on which he solely relies. The complainant having obtained a conveyance without warranty, from the patentee of the claim he sets up, sold and conveyed to others with warranty, and the land having passed, by several intermediate conveyances, to Allen, the defendant, Marshall, recovered judgment in ejectment against him, and the complainant thereupon satisfied Allen for a breach of his warranty, by paying the purchase money with interest, and Allen agreed to re-convey to him. Under these circumstances, the complainant's equity is indisputable, to be relieved against the elder patent, as well as to have a re-conveyance from Allen; and the bill filed for both these objects, was correctly sustained by the circuit court. P, alienee of the junior patentee without warranty, aliens with warranty, and his remote alienee, A, is evicted by M, the elder patentee. P satisfies A for the breach of his covenant, and takes his agreement to reconvey; P. may maintain his bill against M, on his superior entry, and against A on his agreement to reconvey, uniting them in one suit. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Taul and Haggin, for appellant; Bibb and Hanson, for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Marshall v. Pendleton 1 T.B.Mon. 188, 17 Ky. 188, 1824 WL 1524 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
