(Cite as: 5 Litt. 301,  15 Ky. 301 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1435 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Anderson v. Phillips. Jun. 5, 1824. *1 FROM THE HARDIN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. PAUL I. BOOKER SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 25 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(A) Nature, Grounds, Subjects, and Extent of Jurisdiction in General 150k25 k. Illegal Contracts, Combinations, and Transactions.  Most Cited Cases Where a survey, under a claim for 50 acres, would include within its bounds 150 acres, the survey will be presumed to have been made in fraud of law, and equity will not aid the claimant. CHAPEZE for appellant; CRITTENDEN for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was a bill filed by Anderson, alleging that he was in possession under the elder grant of a tract of land to which Phillips sets up claim under a junior grant, and praying that Phillips may be compelled to release his claim. A bill will lie in favor of an elder patentee, to compel a release of a claim under a junior patent. Phillips admits that his patent is younger than that of Anderson, but denies that there is any interference. The bill was dismissed by the circuit court, and Anderson has appealed to this court. The evidence in the cause, does not, we think, satisfactorily establish the interference between the patents under which the parties respectively claim. In a claim of only 50 acres, a surplus of 100 or 150 acres appearing, it is too great to be the effect of innocent mistake, and the survey presumed to be made in fraud of the law, and a court of equity will not aid such a claim. The plat made out in the cause, shews that the survey of the complainant does not extend to that of the defendant, by some poles. The testimony of some of the witnesses, tends indeed to shew that the plat is incorrect, and that the survey of the complainant as it was actually made, would include the defendant's tract; but their testimony does not fix the boundaries of the complainant with any definitude and certainty, and is too vague to be satisfactory, especially as the complainant's survey, if it were to be extended as he claims it, would include 150 or 200 acres, instead of only 50 acres for which the patent was granted. But conceding the fact to be, that the complainant's survey was made as he contends, the extraordinary surplus it would contain in so small a tract, could not be supposed to be the effect of an innocent mistake. The presumption must, we apprehend, be that the survey was made in fraud of the law, and a court of equity can not lend its aid to a party whose claim is founded in fraud. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1824. Anderson v. Phillips 5 Litt. 301, 15 Ky. 301, 1824 WL 1435 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
