(Cite as: 5 Litt. 336,  15 Ky. 336 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1448 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hardin v. The Governor, for the Use of Handley's Executors. Jun. 14, 1824. *1 FROM THE FRANKLIN CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 168(1) 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k160 Actions 353k168 Pleading 353k168(1) k. Declaration, Complaint, or Petition. Most  Cited Cases In an action on the official bond of the sergeant of the court of appeals to recover money collected by a deputy on an execution, an averment that it was collected by a deputy of the defendant is not good, as it should also have alleged that the principal had failed to pay over the money collected, as well as the deputy. Courts 106 k 55 106 Courts 106II Establishment, Organization, and Procedure 106II(B) Court Officers 106k55 k. Ministerial Officers in General. Most Cited  Cases In an action against a surety on the bond of a sergeant of the court of appeals, allegation that an execution was delivered to and collected by the deputies of the sergeant, and that they failed to pay the money collected on the execution, without alleging any failure to do so by the principal sergeant, did not show a breach of the bond. MONROE for plaintiff; SWIGERT for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action brought by Handley's executors, in the name of the Governor, against Mark Hardin, as one of the securities of the sergeant of the court of appeals, upon his official bond. In a suit on the bond of the sergeant of the court of appeals, against one of the securities, to recover money collected by one of the deputies on an execution, an averment that it was collected by a deputy of the defendant, is not good; it should also be averred that the principal had failed to pay over the money collected, as well as the deputy. The breach alleged in the condition of the bond, is, that Handley, in his lifetime, on the 4th of March, 1816, in virtue of a replevin bond, sued out of the office of the clerk of the court of appeals, a writ of fieri facias against the estate of William Chambers and John Young, for the sum of $89.32 debt, with interest thereon from the 30th of August, 1815, until paid, and $1.22 costs, returnable to the first Monday in May thereafter, and directed to the sergeant of the court of appeals, which writ of execution was delivered to Nimrod Long, a deputy of the defendant, and was delivered to and collected by Thomas Bryan, another deputy of the defendant, and they have both failed and refused to pay the proceeds to the testator, Handley, in his lifetime, or to his executors since his death, although often requested by both, whereby an action hath accrued, &c. Judgment was taken against Hardin by default, to which he prosecutes this writ of error. The breach alleged in the condition of the bond, is clearly insufficient to maintain the action. The execution is alleged to have been directed to the sergeant of the court of appeals; but it is not alleged to have been delivered to him or his deputies. The allegation is, that it was delivered to the deputy of the defendant, and Hardin was the only defendant, and though he might be accountable for his deputy's conduct, he could not be so in an action against him as surety of the sergeant of the court of appeals, upon the official bond of the latter. This allegation was, no doubt, made by mistake; but it is difficult to perceive any principle which would justify the court in sustaining the action, because the plaintiff had, by mistake made an averment of one thing, which is insufficient to show a cause of action, instead of an averment of something else, which would have shown a cause of action. *2 But waiving this objection, and supposing the allegation to be, that the execution was delivered to and collected by the deputies of the sergeant of the court of appeals; still, the breach assigned in the condition of the bond, would not, we apprehend, be sufficient to maintain the action; for the breach is only alleged in the failure of the deputies to pay the money collected on the execution, without alleging any failure to do so by the principal sergeant, and unless the failure of the principal as well as his deputies, had been alleged, no cause of action could be shown to have accrued, for although the deputies of the sergeant had not paid over the money, yet if he himself had done so, as it was his duty to do, on the failure of his deputies, there would have been no breach of the condition of the bond, and of course, no cause of action. There is error, therefore, in the judgment, inasmuch as the declaration is insufficient, and the judgment must, consequently, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that new proceedings may be had, commencing at the declaration. Ky.App. 1824. Hardin v. Governor 5 Litt. 336, 15 Ky. 336, 1824 WL 1448 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
