(Cite as: 2 Bibb 234,  5 Ky. 234 (Ky.),  1810 WL 712 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Pollard v. Taylor. Fall Term, 1810. *1 The declaration avers a delivery, etc., plea that the plaintiff did not deliver, etc., replication that the plaintiff tendered and the defendant refused, the replication is a departure from the declaration. A departure in pleading may be taken advantage of on general demurrer. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 180(2) 302 Pleading 302IV Replication or Reply and Subsequent Pleadings 302k180 Departure from Declaration or Complaint 302k180(2) k. Actions Ex Contractu. Most Cited  Cases Where the declaration in an action for breach of covenant to pay money on delivery of an order therefor avers a delivery, and defendant pleads "covenants performed," a replication stating that plaintiff tendered such order, but plaintiff refused to perform, is a departure. Pleading 302 k 205(2) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k205 General Demurrer 302k205(2) k. Objections Reached in General. Most Cited  Cases Where the declaration avers a delivery which is traversed by the plea, and the replication avers that the plaintiff tendered, and the defendant refused, this is a departure of which advantage may be taken on general demurrer. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge LOGAN absent. THIS was an action of covenant, upon an agreement to pay 151 2/3 dollars to the plaintiff, upon his delivery to the defendant an order for that sum, which the defendant had drawn in favor of the plaintiff, upon John Mason. The plaintiff avers in his declaration, that he did, on the _____ day of _____, in the year 1809, deliver to the defendant the order, and assigns the breach of the covenant in the non-payment of the money. The defendant pleaded covenants performed, upon which issue was joined, and also that the plaintiff did not before the suing out the original writ in the case, deliver to the defendant the order drawn upon John Mason, as in the declaration is set forth. To this plea the plaintiff replied, that he did, before the institution of this suit, cause to be tendered by the hands of John Newland, the order aforesaid to the defendant, who then and there refused to receive the same. To this replication the defendant demurred generally. The demurrer was overruled, and the jury having found the issue upon the plea of covenants performed for the plaintiff, judgment was given for the damages assessed by the jury: from which judgment the defendant has appealed to this Court. It is assigned for error, that the replication of the plaintiff to the defendant's second plea was a departure from his declaration, and that the Court erred in over ruling the demurrer thereto. A departure in pleading is said to be, when a man quits or departs from one case or defense he has made and has recourse to another, or when his second does not contain matter pursuant to his first and support and fortify it--Co. Lit. 304. One reason why a departure is never allowed is, because it tends to produce an endless prolixity in pleading; for if a man might relinquish the first ground he had taken, and have recourse to a second, he might abandon his second and resort to a third, and so on in a continual progression as long as his imagination would supply him with new matter to which he could resort. Thus the pleadings would become infinite, and he who had a bad cause would never be brought to issue, while he who had a good one would never attain the end of his suit. *2 That the plaintiff's replication in this case is a departure from his declaration cannot be doubted. In his declaration he insists on a delivery of the order to the defendant, and when the defendant tenders an issue upon that point he shifts his ground and replies that he had offered to deliver the order, but the defendant refused to accept it. If a party pleads performance, he cannot be allowed afterward in his subsequent pleadings to allege matter in excuse of performance--See 1 Tidd's Practice 638, and the cases there cited.  "So if a man plead performance of covenants, and the plaintiff reply that he did not such an act, according to his covenant, the defendant saith that he offered to do it and the plaintiff refused it; this is a departure, because the matter is not presumed; for it is one thing to do a thing, and another to offer to do it, and the other refused to do it; therefore that should have been pleaded in the former pleas"--Co. Lit. 304, a. But it is contended that a departure cannot be taken advantage of on a general demurrer. With every disposition to discover that this position was correct, we have not been able in our researches upon this point to find any one case in support of it; on the contrary it is expressly laid down in some of the authorities, and evidently deducible from others, that a departure in pleading is matter of substance, and bad upon a general demurrer--See Cassens v. Cassens, Wille's Rep. 25-- Hickman v. Walker, ibid 27--Ellis v. Rowles, ibid 638--Palmer v. Stoner, 2 Wils. Rep. 96--Harding v. Holmes, 1 Wils. 122, and 2 Saund. 84 (d) note 1. These cases are all subsequent to the statute of Elizabeth, which provides that when a demurrer shall be joined in any action, the Court shall give judgment according to the right of the cause, without regarding any defect or imperfection in form, except such as the party demurring should especially show. This statute was in force in Virginia, prior to the enactment of the same provision which was relied upon in this case, to show that on a general demurrer a departure in pleading could not be taken advantage of. We cannot therefore consider the provision in our statute book as a new law, but the continuation of an old one by re-enactment; consequently the cases from the books just referred to, must be regarded as authoritative evidences of the true construction of the law upon this point, and if so, they are clearly decisive of the question under consideration. In support of these cases it may also be observed, that they seem consonant to the general rule with respect to what may or may not be taken advantage of on a general demurrer. According to that rule a party cannot avail himself of any defect of form in his adversary's plea upon a general demurrer, but he may do so in any defect in substance. As a departure in pleading depends not upon the form of the plea but upon its substance, it would seem to follow that it furnishes an objection which may be availing upon a general demurrer. *3 It is therefore considered by the Court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court be reversed, that the cause be remanded to said Court, and that the plaintiff have leave upon the usual terms to amend his declaration, and that new proceedings be had therein not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1810. Pollard v. Taylor 2 Bibb 234, 5 Ky. 234, 1810 WL 712 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
