(Cite as: 2 Bibb 223,  5 Ky. 223 (Ky.),  1810 WL 707 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gray v. Prather. Fall Term, 1810. *1 P having execution on replevin in bond against G, it is agreed that G shall have credit on the execution for L80 for a negro boy, but if G should pay up the amount of execution and costs in 3 months, P to return the boy, unless he dies in the meantime, the boy during the 3 months to be at the risk of G. This is a sale defeasible only by a punctual performance of the condition and not a mere security for money. West Headnotes Chattel Mortgages 76 k 293 76 Chattel Mortgages 76X Redemption 76k293 k. Right to Redeem in General. Most Cited Cases A. and B., having an execution against C., C. gave a bill of sale of a negro boy to them, it being agreed that if C. should pay the execution within three months from the date the boy should be returned, and that if the boy should die within the three months the loss should be C.'s. Held, that C., not having paid within the time, should not be permitted to redeem the boy. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge CLARKE absent. PRATHER and Smiley having obtained a judgment and execution, for the sum of L139 19 3, with interest and costs of suit against Gray, purchased of him a negro boy, for which he executed to them a bill of sale, and they executed to him an instrument in the following terms: "Whereas we have this day purchased from Captain George Gray, a negro boy named Reuben, for the sum of eighty pounds, which sum we will give him a credit for on our execution against him, it is however understood and agreed to by the parties, that if Captain Gray should pay us within three months from this date, the amount of an execution issued from the Jefferson Circuit Court in our name against him with interest and costs, that we will return him his boy, if we should not in the course of that time lose him by death or otherwise; and it is understood and agreed on, that if the boy should die in the course of the three months, that he is Captain Gray's loss." Gray failed to pay the amount of the execution within the three months, but about the expiration of that time tendered the sum of L85 10, which was refused by Prather and Smiley, who after indorsing the credit of L>>>>>80 for the boy, caused the residue of the execution to be levied of Gray. In this situation of things, Gray exhibited his bill to redeem the boy; and the decree being against him in the Court below he has appealed to this Court. The only question which the case presents, is, whether the agreement respecting the boy is to be construed a mortgage, or to be considered a defeasible purchase, which became absolute by the failure of Gray to pay the amount of the execution in the time limited by the agreement? Whether a transaction ought to be construed to be a mortgage or not, is often a nice and difficult question, and its determination must always depend much upon the particular circumstances of each case. It is of the essence of a mortgage to be a security for the payment of money, and wherever a conveyance of property is not intended as a pledge or security, it will operate as a sale, not as a mortgage. It appears pretty evident, from the circumstances of this case, that the boy in question was not intended as a security for the money-- *2 1. Because the price is agreed on between the parties, as is done in all sales, but which is rarely the case in mortgages or pledges. 2. Because the money which was due, and upon the payment of which the boy was to be returned, was greatly above his value; whereas in mortgages or pledges, the value of the property conveyed is generally, if not always, greatly above the sum that is intended to be secured; and in the very nature of things it is impossible that property can operate as a security for the payment of money beyond its value. 3. Because the debt had been replevied, and there is no suggestion that either Gray or his security was in doubtful circumstances, or that any suspicion of their insolvency was entertained by Prather and Smiley. When the money was thus effectually secured, it is difficult to imagine a possible motive which could have induced Prather and Smiley to take, as a pledge, the boy in question, the value of which was so inadequate to the money due. 4. Because the parties, by their agreement, have expressly provided, that in case the boy should die within the three months limited for the payment of the money, the loss should be sustained by Gray; whereas if they had intended the boy to operate as a pledge or security, such a provision would have been unnecessary, since property which is pledged is always at the risk of the debtor, and not of the creditor, without any agreement to that effect. These circumstances combined, we think, warrant the conclusion that the transaction with respect to the negro boy could not have been intended as a security for the payment of the money due from Gray to Prather and Smiley, and consequently cannot be construed to be a mortgage.--Decree affirmed, etc. Ky.App. 1810. Gray v. Prather 2 Bibb 223, 5 Ky. 223, 1810 WL 707 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
