(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 150,  17 Ky. 150 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1515 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Millen v. Scott. Oct. 19, 1824. *1 Interest, Judgment, Trustees. ERROR TO THE HARRISON CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Trusts 390 k 315(1) 390 Trusts 390VI Accounting and Compensation of Trustee 390k314 Compensation 390k315 In General 390k315(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Under an agreement that a trustee's expenses should be paid, he cannot claim compensation for his personal services. Interest 219 k 22(1) 219 Interest 219I Rights and Liabilities in General 219k22 Judgments 219k22(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where a judgment does not at law bear interest, equity, following the law, will not give interest. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Statement of the case. This case was formerly before this court, on an appeal taken by Scott, from a decree pronounced by the circuit court, and that decree was reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to the circuit court, after causing an account to be taken, to enter a decree not inconsistent with the opinion then delivered, a?? will be seen in the report of the case,  1 Litt. Rep., 302. When the cause went back, the circuit court, in pursuance of the directions of this court, appointed commissioners to take and report an account of the debits and credits between the parties. The commissioners having made their report, exceptions were taken to it by M'Millen, 1st, because the commissioners had allowed interest on a judgment for $10,504 25, recovered at law by Scott against M'Millen; and 2d, because the commissioners had allowed to Scott $964 75, for expences, &c., incurred, and services rendered by him, while acting in the capacity of trustee for M'Millen. Commissioners' report. The circuit court overruled the first of these exceptions, but sustained the second as to $580, being the amount allowed by the commissioners to Scott, for his personal services and contingent expences; and after deducting that sum, entered a final decree for the amount reported by the commissioners in favor of Scott, from which M'Millen has appealed to this court, and by his assignment of errors, questions the correctness of the decision of the circuit court, in not sustaining his exceptions to the commissioners' report. (1) We have no doubt that the circuit court erred in not sustaining the exception taken to the allowance of interest on the judgment. The judgment was for damages rendered in an action of covenant, upon an agreement for the delivery of produce, the performance of which was not secured by a penalty. Such a judgment does not, at law, bear interest, and equity, which follows the law, will not give interest, where the law does not allow it. It is, accordingly, a general rule in equity, not to give interest upon judgments, unless they be founded upon a debt with a penalty, or be such as by operation of law, bear interest. 2 Fonb. Equity 424, note d. This rule was recognized in the case of Cobb v. Thompson, 1 Marsh. 507, and in that case, interest was denied upon a judgment precisely analogous to the one in the present case. *2 (1) Interest can not be allowed by the chancellor on a judgment for damages not secured by a penalty. (2.) With respect to the second exception taken by M'Millen, we apprehend the circuit court was correct in sustaining it as to $500, the sum allowed by the commissioners for the personal services rendered by Scott, in the capacity of trustee for M'Millen; but that it was erroneous to sustain the exception as to the additional $80, the sum allowed by the commissioners to Scott for contingent expenses incurred by him in the service of M'Millen. We need not in this case enquire, whether or not, in the general, a trustee would be entitled to a compensation for his personal services; for, in this instance, Scott undertook the management of the business for M'Millen, under an agreement in which it was stipulated that his expences should be paid, but in which there was no stipulation that he should receive any compensation for his services; and according to the rule, that the expression of one thing is the exclusion of another, it is necessarily implied, from the express stipulation for the payment of Scott's expences, without any such stipulation for a compensation for his services, that no compensation was intended to be given for those services. Besides, the trust was undertaken by Scott on his solicitation, and more with a view of serving himself, by securing a debt which he considered in great peril, than of serving M'Millen, and it was obviously in this way that he expected to be indemnified for his personal services, and, therefore, required no stipulation for that purpose. The circuit court was, therefore, correct in sustaining the exception to the commissioners' report, so far as it made an allowance to Scott for his personal services; but it is clear that the court erred in sustaining the exception to the allowance made by the commissioners to him, for his contingent expenses. The stipulation that Scott's expenses should be paid, evidently embraced all his expenses, whether certain or contingent, and to the one sort as well as the other, he was equally entitled. (2) Stipulation by a trustee, for compens??tion for his servic??, includes all his expenses, whether certain or contingent; but?? excludes a compensation for personal expenses. (3.) A trustee is, indeed, always entitled to the expences occurred by him in the management of the business of the cestui que trust, even without any stipulation to that effect, and such more ought he to be entitled, where there is, as in this case, an express stipulation for the purpose. (3) A trustee is always entitled to compensation for his expenses, incurred in the management of the business of his cestui ??ue trust, whether stipulated for or not. The circuit court ought, therefore, to have deducted the interest allowed by the commissioners upon the judgment for $10,504.25, in damages, and the $500 allowed by them for the personal services of Scott, as trustee for M'Millen, and entered a decree for the balance only of the amount reported by the commissioners in favor of Scott. *3 The decre must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, that a final decree may be entered in conformity to this opinion. Bibb, for plaintiff; Haggin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. McMillen v. Scott 1 T.B.Mon. 150, 17 Ky. 150, 1824 WL 1515 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
