(Cite as: 3 Bibb 487,  6 Ky. 487 (Ky.),  1814 WL 840 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Nesmieth v. Bowler. Oct. 24, 1814. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 171(2) 161 Execution 161IX Relief Against Execution 161k169 Injunction 161k171 Grounds 161k171(2) k. Existence and Adequacy of Other Remedy  and Irreparable Injury. Most Cited Cases Where a slave is levied on as the property of the defendant in execution, a claimant is not entitled to relief in equity by injunction, his remedy at law being adequate. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS was a bill in chancery with injunction to restrain the sheriff from selling a slave taken under a fieri facias, the property of which slave the complainant alleges he had acquired by purchase from the defendant in the execution previous to its emanation. A bill in equity to restrain a sheriff from selling a slave taken in execution will not lie. On a demurrer the Court below dismissed the bill, and the complainant has brought the cause to this Court by writ of error. We can perceive no reason for the interposition of a Court of Equity in this case, as the law affords to the complainant a complete and adequate remedy. He may have the right of property tried before the sale by a jury summoned for that purpose. If he does so, and the verdict be in his favor, the sheriff will be responsible if he proceeds to sell notwithstanding the verdict, or the complainant may recover the value of the slave in an action of trover, or the slave himself in an action of detinue, from the purchaser, or any other in whosesoever hands he may be found. Or if there be no jury, or the jury summoned should find against the complainant, although in the latter case the sheriff would be excused, still the complainant would have the same remedy for the value of the slave or the slave himself, against any one who should become the purchaser. So that in any event he would have an adequate remedy at law. We will not undertake to say that circumstances might not exist,FN(a) nor what those circumstances are which would entitle a party to the aid of a Court of Equity: for this is a naked case, divested of all circumstances upon which any peculiar claim to the favor of a Court of Equity can be founded.-- Decree affirmed. FN(a). Vide M'Ginty v. Haggin, vol-2, 267. Ky.App. 1814. Nesmieth v. Bowler 3 Bibb 487, 6 Ky. 487, 1814 WL 840 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
