(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 54,  17 Ky. 54 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1481 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Kinley's Executor v. Call's Executor. Oct. 9, 1824. *1 Pleadings, Executors, &c., Judgment, Practice, Verdict. ERROR TO THE ESTILL CIRCUIT; JAMES CLARK, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 446 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k446 k. Plea of Plene Administravit. Most Cited  Cases A plea that the defendant had, before the commencement of the suit, fully administered all the goods and chattels which were of the deceased at the time of his death, is good. Executors and Administrators 162 k 451(4) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k451 Trial 162k451(4) k. Verdict and Findings. Most Cited  Cases Upon the issue of plene administravit, the jury must find specially, not only the amount of damages, but the amount of assets in the hands of the administrator or executor;  otherwise, the court cannot render judgment upon the verdict. Pleading 302 k 425 302 Pleading 302XVIII Waiver or Cure of Defects and Objections 302k425 k. Objections to Filing or Service. Most Cited Cases However irregularly the plea may have been placed on file, if, before trial, plaintiff replies to it, and defendant joins issue, both parties are bound, and the verdict must respond to the issue. Action 13 k 42 13 Action 13III Joinder, Splitting, Consolidation, and Severance 13k39 Joinder of Causes of Action at Common Law 13k42 k. Parties and Interests Involved. Most Cited  Cases Counts charging the defendants as executors upon the promise of their testator, and upon their own promise as executors, in consideration of assets, may be joined in the same declaration. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. The errors assigned in this case questions, first, the propriety of joining the counts in the declaration; and secondly, the sufficiency of the verdict. (1.) The action was assumpsit, and three counts were laid in the declaration. The first is upon the promise of the defendant's testator, for diet, lodging, & c. furnished him; the second, upon the promise of the defendant, as executor, for diet, &c. furnished the testator; and the third, on an account stated by the defendant as executor, for money in arrears and due from his testator. (1) Counts on the assumpsit of the testator, on that of the executor, as such, for a consideration to the testator, and on an account stated by the executor as such, for money due from the testator, may be joined. (2.) Of the propriety of the joinder of these counts in the same declaration, we have no doubt. The general rule upon this subject is, that whenever the same plea may be pleaded, and the same judgment given, in all the counts of the declaration, or whenever the counts are of the same nature, and the same judgment is given upon them all, though the pleas be different, they may well be joined. *2 (2) The rule is, that wherever the same plea may be pleaded, and the same judgment is rendered, or where the counts are of the same nature, and the same judgment is given, though the plea be different, the counts may be joined. (3.) Now, it is obvious that the courts in this case are all of the same nature, and require the same judgment; for they all charge the defendant as executor, and though two of them are founded upon his promises, these are alleged to be made by him as executor, and no new consideration is laid, which can bind him in his own right; and, consequently, the judgment in all of them must be rendered de bonis testatoris, and not de bonis propriis. (3) The judgment on the assumpsit of the executor, as such, for a consideration to the testator, is de bonis testatoris. The sufficiency of the verdict is objected to, on the ground that the jury did not find the amount of assets in the hands of the defendant to be administered. (4.) The validity of this objection turns mainly on the question, whether a plea of plene administravit, copied into the record, is to be deemed a regular plea in the cause. (4) The order book reads at one term "the defendant filed a plea herein, to which the plaintiff filed a joinder, and which plea is withdrawn;" at the next term, "plaintiff filed a replication to the plea filed at the last term, to which defendant filed a joinder;" all are found on file, except the first joinder; the parties have recognized the plea, and it belongs to the cause. However irregularly the plea may have been placed on file, if, before trial, the plaintiff replies to it, and the defendant joins issue, both parties are bound, and the verdict must respond to the issue. The record of the cause shows that issues had been made up on several other pleas, and the cause continued to the October term, 1822, when, as it states, "the defendant filed a plea herein, to which the plaintiff filed a joinder; which plea was withdrawn by the defendant, and which plea so withdrawn reads in the words and figures following;" and then follows a copy of the plea of plene administravit; but the clerk certifies that the joinder mentioned in the last order is not on file. The cause, in this situation, was continued to the May term following, when the record, after noticing the appearance of the parties, states, that "the defendant had leave to withdraw his plea of no executor, and the plaintiff filed a replication to the plea filed at the last term, to which the defendant filed a joinder; which replication and joinder read in the words and figures following, to-wit;" and then gives a copy of the replication, regularly traversing the plea of plene administravit, and tendering an issue to the country, signed by the counsel for the plaintiff, and a copy of the joinder signed by the counsel for the defendant; and the jury was immediately called and sworn to try the issue joined by the parties. *3 On this state of the record there is an apparent contradiction between the statement of the plea having been withdrawn, and the fact of the plea still existing on the file; for it is evident the plea is on the file; otherwise, as it was not required to be recorded, the clerk could not have given a copy of it. To reconcile this seeming contradiction, we ought perhaps to suppose that the plea, though withdrawn was afterwards again filed. But this supposition, though evidently as favorable to the plaintiff as any which can be made, can not aid his case; for the plea must be taken to be on file, and however irregularly it may have been placed there, as it was afterwards, before the trial of the cause, recognized by both parties, (by the plaintiff in replying to it and tendering an issue thereon to the country, and by the defendant in joining the issue), it is evident that both parties must be bound by it. When the parties have thus, by their own acts, treated the plea, we certainly would not be justified in considering it as not belonging properly to the cause. (5.) But it is objected, that the plea itself is insufficient, and consequently, that the issue joined upon it ought to be disregarded. The plea in substance alleges, "that the defendant had, before the commencement of the suit, fully administered all and singular the goods and chattels which were of the deceased at his death." (5) Plea that the defendant had, before the commencement of the suit, fully administered all the goods and chattels which were of the deceased at the time of his death, is good; for to sustain it the defendant would have to prove that he had administered all which were of the testator at his death, whether all had come to his hands or not. The objection taken to the plea is, that it only requires the defendant to show that he had administered the goods and chattels of the deceased which had come to his hands before the commencement of the suit, and not those which might thereafter have come to his hands, up to the time of filing his plea, as is demanded by the principles of law and the forms of pleas of this sort, given in the books of precedents. The objection, we apprehend, is founded upon a misconception of the import of the plea. It is not, indeed, in the usual language of a plea of plene administravit; but it is broader than is required by law, and not narrower, as the objection supposes it to be; for the plea avers, that the defendant had administered, not only all the goods and chattels of the deceased, which came to his hands, but all the goods and chattels, without limitation or exception; and the defendant would, therefore, be required to show, in order to sustain the plea, that all the goods and chattels which were of the deceased, had been fully administered, whensoever they might have come to his hands, and indeed, whether they had come to his hands or not. The objection to the plea can not, therefore, be sustained. *4 (6.) Assuming, then, the plea to belong properly to the cause, and to be in itself good, we can have no difficulty in saying, that the verdict is insufficient; for the law is well settled, that upon the issue of plene administravit, the jury must find the amount of assets in the hands of the executor; otherwise the court can not render judgment upon the verdict.  Booth's executor v. Armstrong, 2 Wash. 301;  Fairfax's executor v. Fairfax, 5 Cranch 19. (6) Issue of plene administravit, the verdict must find the assets in the hands of the executor, or judgment can not be rendered. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that the verdict may be set aside, and a new trial had, not inconsistent herewith. Turner, for plaintiff; Hanson, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. McKinley's Ex'rs v. Call's Ex'r 1 T.B.Mon. 54, 17 Ky. 54, 1824 WL 1481 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
