(Cite as: 4 Bibb 28,  7 Ky. 28 (Ky.),  1815 WL 641 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gregory v. Brown. Apr. 19, 1814. *1 No suit lies against a justice of the peace for an act done judicially and within the scope of his jurisdiction, unless he acts corruptly or from impure motives. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 24 231 Justices of the Peace 231II Rights, Duties, and Liabilities 231k23 Liabilities for Official Acts 231k24 k. In General. Most Cited Cases A justice of the peace, while acting within the limits of his jurisdiction, is not liable for a mere error of judgment, without any malicious or improper design. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THE defendant, in the capacity of a justice of the peace, gave judgment in favor of the plaintiff against one Thorp, for the costs of a suit by warrant; but having at a subsequent day so altered the judgment as to make each party pay his own cost, the plaintiff being previously summoned to show cause against such alteration; he refused, on the application of the plaintiff, to issue an execution upon the first judgment. For that refusal the plaintiff brought an action upon the case; and the question now to be decided is, whether the action is maintainable or not? Whether a magistrate, after he has once pronounced a judgment, can, at a subsequent day, grant a rehearing and suspend or alter such judgment, is a question about which we are aware there has been much difference of opinion in the country, among men of legal information, as well as among the magistrates themselves. This is a point, however, we do not in this case deem material to be decided: for be it as it may, we are of opinion the action cannot be maintained. There can be no question that the subject matter was within the jurisdiction of the magistrate; and where a magistrate acts judicially upon a subject within his jurisdiction, though he should act illegally or erroneously, he cannot be made liable for any damage sustained by his conduct, unless he has acted from impure or corrupt motives. And in this case the state of the pleadings repels any conclusion of that sort. The Court below, therefore, decided correctly for the defendant. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Gregory v. Brown 4 Bibb 28, 7 Ky. 28, 1815 WL 641 (Ky.), 7 Am.Dec. 731 END OF DOCUMENT
