(Cite as: 4 Bibb 466,  7 Ky. 466 (Ky.),  1816 WL 833 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ellis v. Deadman's heirs. Dec. 2, 1816. *1 A receipt for a sum of moneyexpressing that it was the cash part of the purchase of a lot, bought etc., without specifying the terms of the contract, is not such a memorandum as will take the case out of the statute against frauds and perjuries. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 113(3) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185VIII Requisites and Sufficiency of Writing 185k105 Contents of Memorandum 185k113 Statement of Terms and Conditions 185k113(3) k. Sufficiency. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 185k113(1)) The following writing, to wit:  "4th January, 1808. Received of J. E. $_____, in part of a lot he bought of me in the town of V., it being the cash part of the purchase of said lot. Nathan Deadman. Test:  Will, Atwood,"-was held not to be a sufficient memorandum to take the agreement out of the statute of frauds, there being no statement as to the terms of the purchase. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was a bill filed for the purpose of obtaining a conveyance of a lot in the town of Versailles, which the complainant alleges he had purchased of the ancestor of the defendants. The defendants pleaded and relied upon the statute against frauds and perjuries; and on the hearing of the cause the only written evidence of the contract produced by the complainant, was a receipt in the following words and figures, viz: "4th January, 1808--Received of Jesse Ellis $___, in part pay of a lot he bought of me in the town of Versailles; it being the cash part of the purchase of said lot. Nathan Deadman. Test, Will. Atwood, Jr." The Court below being of opinion that this was not such a memorandum in writing of the contract as was binding under the statute against frauds and perjuries, dismissed the bill, and the complainant has appealed to this Court. We have no hesitation in concurring in opinion with the Court below. If the receipt had specified the terms of the agreement, there would have been no doubt of the propriety of decreeing a special execution: for although the receipt was apparently intended only to be evidence of the payment which had been made, yet it would in that case have been in fact such a memorandum of the agreement as would have taken the case out of the provision of the statute. But as the receipt contains no evidence of the terms of the contract, it is obvious that what those terms were can only be ascertained by the introduction of parol testimony--the evils arising from which, in such cases, it was the great object of the statute to prevent. That a receipt, or other writing not specifying the terms of the agreement, will not take the case out of the statute against frauds and perjuries in England, is well settled by the adjudications of the Courts in that country.-- Sugden, 61-2, and the cases there cited. And as the language of our statute in relation to contracts for the sale of land, is in substance the same as that of the British statute, it is clearly not susceptible of a different construction. It was accordingly held by this Court in the case of  Parker's heirs v. Bodley, (7 Ky. 102) that a writing not specifying the terms of the agreement did not take the case out of the statute of this country. *2 Decree affirmed. Ky.App. 1816. Ellis v. Deadman's Heirs 4 Bibb 466, 7 Ky. 466, 1816 WL 833 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
