(Cite as: 3 Bibb 202,  6 Ky. 202 (Ky.),  1813 WL 649 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Steinman, etc. v. Tabb, etc. Oct. 20, 1813. West Headnotes Prisons 310 k 251 310 Prisons 310II Prisoners and Inmates 310II(F) Duration of Confinement 310k250 Escape 310k251 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 310k16) The jailer may suffer the debtor to have the liberty of the prison rules without taking a bond and security from the prisoner not to depart;  and, so long as the prisoner keeps within the rules, no action lies against the jailer as for an escape. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THE question in this case is, whether a jailer, who, having the custody of a prisoner taken in execution, permits such prisoner to have the liberty of the prison rules, without having first given bond and security not to depart therefrom is liable to an action upon his official bond for an escape? The prison rules are considered in law, as an extension of the bounds of the prison. The jailer may suffer the debtor to have the liberty of the prison rules, without taking bond and security from the prisoner not to depart; and so long as the prisoner keeps within the rules no action lies against the jailer as for an escape. The Court below being of opinion that he was liable, so instructed the jury, and a verdict and judgment were accordingly given in favor of the plaintiffs in that Court, and against the jailer and his securities; from which judgment the latter have appealed to this Court. Ever since the establishment of prison rules in England, they have been held by the Courts of that country as in effect an extension of the walls of the jail, and the same doctrine prevails in New York--See  6 John. Rep. 121 to 124. If this doctrine be correct, of which we have no doubt, it must be equally applicable to the prison rules established by the laws of this State. It consequently follows that a prisoner having the privilege of the prison bounds, and keeping himself therein, is in the estimation of law a true prisoner, as much so as if confined within the walls of the jail. It is true that the jailer is not bound to allow a prisoner the liberty of the prison rules, unless the prisoner shall give bond and security not to depart therefrom: for it is only upon that condition that the law entitles the prisoner to the privilege of the bounds; but as the bond is intended as a security to the jailer against the abuse of the privilege by the prisoner, for whose safe keeping he is responsible, he may waive such security, according to the general principle that "any one may renounce that which is intended for his own benefit." There could, therefore, have been no escape in this case for which the jailer is liable. Judgment reversed, etc. Ky.App. 1813. Steinman v. Tabb 3 Bibb 202, 6 Ky. 202, 1813 WL 649 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
