(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 223,  17 Ky. 223 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1539 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. May's Heirs v. Russell. Dec. 14, 1824. *1 Notices, Depositions. APPEAL FROM THE FAYETTE CIRCUIT; JESSE BLEDSOE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 68 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak68 k. Notice of taking. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k56(3)  Depositions) A notice to take depositions at a point 500 miles distant on any one of several days, extending over a period of two months, is unreasonable. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 68 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak68 k. Notice of taking. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k56(3)  Depositions) A notice to take depositions at "Powell & Tisdale's Tavern" is properly followed by taking them at "Powell's Tavern," it being shown that the same place bore both names. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 68 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak68 k. Notice of taking. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k56(4)  Depositions) Notice to take a deposition in 12 days at a place 500 miles distant was held unreasonable, and the deposition was excluded. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 68 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak68 k. Notice of taking. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k56(6)  Depositions) A notice to take depositions, executed by leaving a copy at the house of the party, is sufficiently served. Pretrial Procedure 307A k 69.1 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AII Depositions and Discovery 307AII(B) Perpetuation of Testimony 307Ak69 Taking Testimony 307Ak69.1 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 122k62  Depositions) Where the notice named several days, and provided that if anything prevented its being taken on the first it would be taken on the second, and so on, successively, and it was not taken on the first, it was held that the cause must be shown by the party on whose behalf it was taken. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Statement of the case. On the 25th of February, 1780, John Todd, as assignee of John May, obtained from the court of commissioners, a certificate for a settlement of 400 acres of land, and a pre-emption of 1,000 acres adjoining. He afterwards, in pursuance of law, entered the certificate for the settlement with the surveyor, in his own name, and having procured a warrant for the pre-emption of 1,000 acres, caused an entry to be made thereon with the surveyor, also in his own name. Having been shortly afterwards killed by the Indians, surveys were made upon these entries, and grants from the Commonwealth were, in virtue thereof, issued to his daughter and heiress at law. To obtain from her the legal title, this bill was filed by the heirs of John May, in which they allege that the assignment of the right of their ancestor to John Todd, was made by George May, without any authority to do so, and without consideration and in trust for their ancestor. Allegations of the bill. The defendant in her answer admits no allegation of?? the bill material to the right of the complainants, and insists upon various grounds of defense, not material now to be particularly stated. *2 Answer. In the progress of the suit, two depositions of George May were taken by the complainants, and on the hearing of the cause in the circuit court, were offered by them to be read; but the reading of them was objected to by the defendant, and that court sustained the objections and excluded the depositions, and the bill being thereupon dismissed, the complainants have brought the case to this court by an appeal. Stript of the support to be derived from the testimony of George May, there can be no pretence that the claim of the complainants ought to be sustained, and it is therefore, obviously necessary that we should examine the propriety of excluding his depositions, which were offered to be read by the complainants, before we inquire into the merits of their claim, and the various grounds of defense urged against it. Only one of these depositions had been filed in the cause before the hearing, the other only having been produced in consequence of exceptions being taken to the one which had been filed. To the objections taken to the one filed, we shall, therefore, first attend. Objections to the depositions. These objections are, 1st, that the service of the notice was insufficient; 2d, that the deposition was not taken in conformity to the notice; and 3d, that the notice itself is not reasonable. (1.) The deposition was taken on the 30th of December, 1815, at Powell's tavern, in Petersburg, Virginia. The notice in virtue of which it was taken, appointed Powell and Tesdale's tavern, in Petersburg, as the place, and named the 9th, the 16th, the 23d and the 30th of December, and the 6th, the 13th, the 20th and the 27th of January, when the deposition would be taken, and expressly provided that if anything prevented the?? taking of it on the first of these days, it would be taken on the second of them, and so on successively. The notice was served by the deputy sheriff of Fayette county, where the defendant lived, and was returned by him, "executed by leaving a true copy at the house of?? Mary O. Russell, 22d of November, 1815." (1) The return of a deputy sheriff, executed by leaving a copy at the house of the party, on a day stated, is a sufficient service of notice to take depositions. The objection to the sufficiency of the service of the notice, cannot, we apprehend, be sustained. The case of  Knox v. Dye, 1 Bibb 573, is decisive against this objection. That it is true, was a notice of a motion to be made in court; but the principles of the case are equally applicable to a notice to take depositions; and, indeed it is clear, if such a return of service of the notice by an officer, be sufficient in the former case, that it must much more unquestionaby be deemed to be so in the latter. (2.?? The objection that the deposition was not taken in conformity to the notice, is, we think, entitled to more weight. This objection was probably originally taken in the court below upon the ground of the apparent discrepancy between "Powell's tavern," where the?? deposition purports to have been taken, and "Powell and Tesdale's tavern," the place appointed in the notice for taking it; but this is shown to be only a difference in the name of the same place, and not a diversity of place, the name having been changed in consequence of a change in the ownership; and, consequently, this ground of objection must fail. *3 (2) If it appears that the deposition was taken at the same place named in the notice, it is sufficient, though it be called, in the caption of the deposition, by a different name; as at a tavern, the occupant of which had been changed. (3.) But there is another ground for the objection,?? which has not been obviated, and which we deem to be of a more fatal character, and that is with respect to ??the time the deposition was taken. The deposition was ??taken, not on the first day named in the notice, but on ??the fourth of those days, and it is not shown that there was anything which prevented the taking of the deposition on the first, or either of the intermediate days. But the notice, as we have already stated, was to take the deposition on the first day named, and only provided for taking it on the second, if anything happened to prevent its being taken on the first, and in that case it was to be taken on the second, unless something prevented it from being done, and so on successively through the whole of the eight days named in the notice. According, therefore, to the literal import of the notice, the deposition could not be taken in conformity to it upon any day named therein, subsequent to the first, unless there had been an honest effort to take it on each of the preceding days named, and something had prevented it from being done; and as the deposition is taken on the fourth day named in the notice, and nothing is shown to have prevented its being taken on either of the preceding days, it necessarily follows, that the deposition cannot in truth and propriety, be said to have been taken in conformity to the notice. It does not, indeed, appear that the complainants had not made an effort to take the deposition on each preceding day, and had not been prevented from doing so; but to require the defendant to show this, would be requiring what the law never does require, the proof of a negative. Besides to entitle a party to read a deposition, it must, in all cases, be shown to have been taken in pursuance of a notice; and, of course, where, by the terms?? of the notice, as in this case, the taking the deposition on a particular day, is made to depend upon a previous contingency, the contingency must be shown affirmatively to have happened before deposition can be read.?? To admit, therefore, the deposition in this case to have?? been taken in conformity to the notice, without requiring it to be shown that something had happened to prevent its being taken on each of the preceding days?? named in the notice, would be utterly to disregard the?? condition upon which alone, according to the terms of?? the notice, the deposition was to be taken on any of?? the days named, subsequent to the first. On this construction of the notice, the complainants might, at?? their will and pleasure, have taken the deposition with?? equal propriety, on any one of the days named, and?? such was assumed in the argument to be the legal effect?? of the notice; but the assumption was arbitrary and?? gratuitous, and being equally repugnant to the letter?? and obvious intent of the notice, is wholly unwarranted by any known rule of interpretation. *4 (3) Where a notice to take a deposition names several days, and provides that if anything prevents the taking it on the first day, it will be taken on the second, and so on successively, and it is not taken on the first, the cause must be shown by the party on whose behalf it was taken. (4.) Admitting, however, such to be the legal effect of the notice the third objection to reading the deposition, that is, that the notice itself was not reasonable, would occur. There is no doubt that a provisional notice to take a deposition on a day subsequent to that which is first named for that purpose, may, under particular circumstances, be reasonable; but we should have great hesitation in saying, that a notice like the present, provisionally to take the deposition on seven days subsequently to the first, spread over a period of near two months, and at a place proved to be upwards of five hundred miles from the residence of the party notified, was a reasonable notice. We should be inclined to think it was not. (4) A provisional notice to take depositions on a day subsequent to that first named in the notice, may, under particular circumstances, be reasonable; but to spread the subsequent days over a period of near two months, where the place mentioned is more than 500 miles from the party, is unreasonable. But as the deposition was not taken in conformity to the provisions of the notice, and cannot, on that ground, be read, unless those provisions should be treated as having no effect, we shall now consider the notice as if it were stript of those provisions, and equally justified the taking of the deposition on any one of the days named, regardless of the condition upon which the notice declared it should be done. Thus considered, we can hardly suppose that any arguments can be required to prove that the notice is not reasonable. Such a notice would either require the party notified to surrender the right of cross examination, the benefit of which is the only purpose to be attained by requiring notice, or it would impose upon him, at the will and caprice of the opposite party, the?? necessity of attending at the place appointed in the notice, on every day named throughout the whole period of near two months, over which they are spread. Such attendance, at the distance of upwards of five hundred miles from the residence of the party, would obviously be extremely inconvenient, vexatious and oppressive, and a notice which would require it, cannot be deemed reasonable. (5.) To obviate this objection, it was urged that the defendant might have appointed an agent, resident at the place of taking the deposition. But although the law allows to all the privilege of transacting their business by agent, it compels no man to do so, and a notice which requires a party who is capable and disposed to transact his own business, to do what is unreasonable for him to do in person, cannot be deemed a reasonable notice. (5) Though a party may appoint an agent, a notice to take depositions, which requires what is unreasonable for himself to do, is insufficient. *5 Upon the whole, therefore, we think this deposition was properly excluded by the circuit court. (6.) With respect to the other deposition, little need be said to show that it was properly excluded. The notice was served on the defendant at Lexington, on the 18th of April, 1815, that the deposition would be taken on the first of May therafter, at Petersburg, Virginia, leaving a period of only twelve days between the day on which the notice was served, and the day on which the deposition was taken, for preparing and performing a journey of upwards of five hundred miles. To require this to be done, would be requiring what, if not impracticable, would be at least, extremely unreasonable. (6) Notice to take the deposition in 12 days, at a place 500 miles distant, is unreasonable. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Wickliffe, and Crittenden, for appellants; Clay, for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. May's Heirs v. Russell 1 T.B.Mon. 223, 17 Ky. 223, 1824 WL 1539 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
