(Cite as: 4 Bibb 446,  7 Ky. 446 (Ky.),  1816 WL 817 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Pitt's trustees v. Viley. Nov. 21, 1816. *1 A deed conveying property to trustees to be sold for the payment of debts, held fraudulent because judgments were obtained against the debtor before the deed was executed--the creditors were not parties to the deed, nor consented to its execution--the deed contains no covenant by the trustees to sell and dispose of the estate for the benefit of his creditors and the property remained in the possession of the owner. West Headnotes Debtor and Creditor 117T k 2 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk1 Assignments for Benefit of Creditors 117Tk2 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 39k35  Assignments for Benefit of Creditors) A deed of trust for the benefit of creditors which contains no covenant on the part of the trustees that they will faithfully execute the trust, but stipulates that they shall not be accountable for any property not actually coming into their hands, is fraudulent and void. Debtor and Creditor 117T k 2 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk1 Assignments for Benefit of Creditors 117Tk2 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 39k44  Assignments for Benefit of Creditors) A trust deed conveying property to trustees for the payment of grantor's debts will be set aside as fraudulent where all the creditors were not parties to the deed, nor consented to its execution. Debtor and Creditor 117T k 2 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk1 Assignments for Benefit of Creditors 117Tk2 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 39k44  Assignments for Benefit of Creditors) A deed in trust of all the debtor's property for the payment of debts was declared fraudulent because the creditors were neither parties to the deed, nor assented thereto. Debtor and Creditor 117T k 2 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk1 Assignments for Benefit of Creditors 117Tk2 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 39k45  Assignments for Benefit of Creditors) The fact that, after a conveyance in trust for the benefit of creditors, the debtor retained possession of the property, exercising ownership and selling part thereof, is evidence of fraud. Debtor and Creditor 117T k 2 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk1 Assignments for Benefit of Creditors 117Tk2 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 39k54  Assignments for Benefit of Creditors) Where a trust deed contains no authority to the trustees to sell and dispose of the estate for the benefit of creditors, it will be set aside as fraudulent. Debtor and Creditor 117T k 2 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk1 Assignments for Benefit of Creditors 117Tk2 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 39k153  Assignments for Benefit of Creditors) A deed conveying property to trustees for the payment of debts, after judgment was obtained against the debtor, is fraudulent, as the inevitable tendency of the deed must have been to hinder and delay such judgment creditor. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *2 THIS was an action of detinue for sundry slaves taken and sold as the property of Josiah Pitts, in virtue of various executions issued against his estate at the suit of his creditors. The defendant holds the slaves as the purchaser at the sale made by the sheriff, and the plaintiffs claim them under a deed of conveyance made to them by Pitts of all his real and personal estate, in trust to be sold and applied by them to the payment of his debts. The only question presented by the record is, whether, under the circumstances of the case, the deed of trust is fraudulent and void as to creditors or not? That it is, we think evident--1. Because Pitts was deeply involved in debt, and many of his creditors had manifested a determination to coerce the collection of their debts, and had actually obtained judgments against him when the deed of trust was executed. The inevitable tendency, therefore, of the deed, must have been to hinder and delay those creditors of their just and lawful remedies for the collection of their debts. 2. Because the creditors of Pitts were neither parties to the deed, nor did they or any of them consent to its execution. 3. Because the deed contains no covenant on the part of the trustees that they would sell and dispose of the estate for the purposes therein mentioned. On the contrary, it contains a stipulation that they should not be accountable for any property which did not actually come to their possession. 4. Because the property remained in the possession of Pitts, continued to be used and enjoyed by him as his own, and a part thereof was thereafter sold by him, with a conveyance attested by one of the trustees as a witness. Without deciding what would be the effect of either of those circumstances, taken separately, we can have no doubt when united that they are sufficient to justify the conclusion that the deed is in law fraudulent, and therefore void. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Pitts' Trustees v. Viley 4 Bibb 446, 7 Ky. 446, 1816 WL 817 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
