(Cite as: 1 Bibb 115,  4 Ky. 115 (Ky.),  1809 WL 706 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Heffington v. White. Oct. 14, 1809. *1 Ejectment. Surveyor's report is evidence of the present existence of objects found upon the land. A coincidence between the objects mentioned in the grant or deed, and those reported by the surveyor, may be satisfactory evidence of the boundary of the land in dispute. Acc.  Bowling v. Helm, 4 Ky. 88. The report may be impeached or falsified by other evidence. West Headnotes Boundaries 59 k 36(5) 59 Boundaries 59II Evidence, Ascertainment, and Establishment 59k34 Admissibility of Evidence 59k36 Documentary Evidence 59k36(5) k. Records of Surveys and Maps. Most Cited  Cases A surveyor's report is evidence of the courses and distances and the present existence of the objects to and from which the lines are reported to run. Boundaries 59 k 54(4) 59 Boundaries 59II Evidence, Ascertainment, and Establishment 59k54 Official Surveys 59k54(4) k. Conclusiveness in General. Most Cited  Cases Though a surveyor's report is evidence to establish the boundary of lands, it is not conclusive, and may be impeached or falsified. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. THIS is an appeal from a judgment in ejectment. On the trial of the cause in the Circuit Court, a point was made on a case reserved, "whether other proof besides the report of the surveyor, is necessary to prove boundary, in an action of ejectment." The Court being of opinion, that other proof was not necessary, gave judgment for the plaintiff; the errors assigned, question the correctness of this opinion. No particular objections are made to the report of the surveyor in the cause, nor is it in fact, by the reserved case or in any other way made a part of the record. The point made seems to question the propriety of admitting as evidence in any case, the surveyor's report, only as auxiliary to other proof. Understanding this to be the question propounded by the reserved case to the Circuit Court, we can have no hesitation in assenting to the correctness of the opinion pronounced by that Court. The surveyor's report, by presenting as it were the land in dispute in miniature to the view of the Court, tends greatly to the elucidation of the points in controversy, by rendering more intelligible other testimony in the cause; for this purpose it is conceded by the appellant's counsel, it is competent evidence; but if competent at all, there can be little doubt that it may be received as substantive proof. In order to present a view of the disputed land to the Court, the surveyor's report must be taken as evidence of the courses and distances, and the present existence of the objects to and from which the lines are reported to run. A coincidence in these respects, with the description given by the deed or patent, especially if there be in the objects referred to, any peculiarity, and they are of an imperishable nature, may, to any rational mind, be very satisfactory evidence of the identity of the land granted or conveyed. *2 It will however be conclusive in no case, being subject to be impeached or falsified, by other proof; whether in any case it will be satisfactory evidence to establish the identity or boundary of the land in controversy, will depend upon the peculiar circumstance of the case, and is a point of fact for the jury, and not of law, for the Court to decide.--Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1809. Heffington v. White 1 Bibb 115, 4 Ky. 115, 1809 WL 706 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
