(Cite as: 2 Bibb 538,  5 Ky. 538 (Ky.),  1812 WL 611 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Ford's executors v. Wilson's administrators. Spring Term, 1812. *1 Where a defendant offered pleas which were objected to by plaintiff, on the ground that the defense was only cognizable in equity, and the Court so decided; upon bill filed, the plaintiff at law shall not be allowed to object that the matters in the bill might have been pleaded at law. When a property bond not then assignable was indorsed over, and the indorsee accepted money in lieu of the property, and afterward prosecuted a suit in the name of the indorser, the payment of the money is an equitable not a legal defense. Perpetual injunction against the judgment at law decreed with costs at law and in chancery. West Headnotes Costs 102 k 27 102 Costs 102I Nature, Grounds, and Extent of Right in General 102k26 Separate Actions 102k27 k. In General. Most Cited Cases Where complainant, after an attempted defense at law, obtains a perpetual injunction against the judgment at law, and it was doubtful whether the defense ought to have been made at law or in equity, costs will be allowed him both at law and in chancery. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases Where, in an action at law, the court ruled that the defense submitted could not be sustained there, but in a court of equity only, and a bill was filed, it was held that, even if the defense was good at law, a decree should be entered on the merits. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge OWSLEY absent. ON the 14th of May, 1795, James Wilson and William Warren executed their bond to John Crow, for two hundred and seventy pounds, conditioned to pay one hundred and thirty-five pounds in cattle, between the 10th and 20th of October, 1796; and on the 19th of May, 1795, Crow assigned the bond to William Ford. Some years afterward Ford's executor brought suit upon the bond, in the names of Crow's administrators, but for his benefit, and recovered judgment against Wilson's administratrix. To stay proceedings upon that judgment, she filed her bill, alleging that one moiety of the amount due by the bond was paid by Warren, as she had been informed, and that Peter Casey being indebted to her intestate in a large sum of money, paid the amount of the other moiety to Ford, who received it in discharge of the said bond. She also states that she expected to make her defense at law, and when the cause was called, her counsel offered to file several special pleas, but that the pleas were objected to by the counsel for Ford's executor, and the Court sustained the objection, giving it as their opinion that the matters contained in her pleas were only cognizable in a Court of Chancery. Ford's executor in his answer admits the payment of one moiety of the bond by Warren, but denies that any payment was made by Casey, or any one else, for Wilson, in discharge of the residue of the bond; and insists that the matters now urged in discharge of the bond might have been plead at law, where they are alone cognizable, and not having been taken advantage of on the trial at law, cannot be availing in a Court of Equity. One of Crow's administrators filed his answer, in which he admits in general the truth of the complainant's bill, and states his belief that Wilson had in some way discharged the bond. On a final hearing, the Circuit Court decreed that the judgment at law should be perpetually enjoined, and that the defendants should pay to the complainant her costs, as well in the suit at law, as in chancery; from that decree this appeal has been prosecuted. *2 The evidence very satisfactorily proves the payment of the money by Casey to Ford, on Wilson's account, and that Ford received it in discharge of the amount that was due on the bond. So that the only point which deserves particular consideration, respects the propriety of resorting to a Court of Equity for relief, under the circumstances of this case. If the defense set up by the complainant against the bond were purely a legal one, and no sufficient reason were shown for not having made it at law, it would be improper for a Court of Equity to interfere. But such does not appear to be the case here. The complainant could have availed herself at law, of the matter which she now urges in discharge of the bond, only as a performance of the condition, or by way of accord and satisfaction. But it is evident that a payment of money was not a performance of the condition of the bond, and that evidence of such payment would have been inadmissible, under the plea of covenants performed; it seems equally clear, that the payment made in this case would have been unavailing by way of accord and satisfaction. When the obligation in this case was assigned to Ford, bonds for property were not assignable by law, and the assignment could give Ford no right to an action for the breach of the condition. The legal right to the damages for the non-performance of the condition, was notwithstanding the assignment vested in the original obligee, or his representatives; an accord made with Ford could not therefore operate as a legal discharge of those damages. But were the matter which is set up in discharge of the bond, such as would have constituted a good defense at law, the reason shown by the complainant for not having availed herself of it in the action at law, we would think sufficient to entitle her to the aid of a Court of Equity. The bill alleges that the complainant by her counsel offered to plead to the action at law, but it was opposed by the counsel on the part of her adversary, and that the Court adjudged the pleas offered by her counsel to be insufficient, as the matter they contained was proper only to be inquired into in a Court of Equity. This statement is not denied by the answer, and is supported by one witness, who was one of the counsel in the cause. The point then having been decided between the parties ought to be conclusive; more especially ought Ford's executor to be bound by the judgment upon this question, since it was given at his instance. It would indeed be the most flagrant injustice, if the Court were now to sustain the objection, that the defense ought to have been made at law, when it is apparent that it was not made there, because it was opposed upon the ground that it was peculiarly cognizable in a Court of Equity. The decree for the costs at law, as well as for the costs in chancery, we think correct. In equity and good conscience, nothing was due upon the bond, and no suit ought to have been brought on it; and it being doubtful, (as it appears it was) in the opinion of the complainant's counsel, whether her defense ought to have been made at law or in equity, she ought not to be subject to the inconvenience of losing the costs incurred in attempting to make it in the suit at law, which was iniquitously brought against her. *3 The decree must be affirmed, with costs. Ky.App. 1812. Ford's Ex'rs v. Wilson's Adm'rs 2 Bibb 538, 5 Ky. 538, 1812 WL 611 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
