(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 406,  8 Ky. 406 (Ky.),  1818 WL 1440 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Coleman v. Morrison. Dec. 8, 1818. West Headnotes Estoppel 156 k 12 156 Estoppel 156II By Deed 156II(A) Creation and Operation in General 156k12 k. Nature and Elements in General. Most Cited  Cases The establishment of a town by the legislature, and an investiture of the land in trustees, having been procured by the owner of the land, operated as a conveyance from him, and he and those claiming under him are estopped to deny his title at the time, and the title passes thereby to the trustees. JUDGE OWSLEY DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT:FNa1 FNa1. Absent Chief Justice Boyle. *1 This is an appeal from a judgment rendered against Coleman in an action of ejectment, brought by him to recover the possession of the land whereon the town of Cynthiana, in Harrison county, is situated. The land appears to have been patented to John Milton, in 1786; and on the trial in the court below, Coleman attempted to deduce the title, 1st, through a deed executed by commissioners in pursuance of a decree in chancery, pronounced in a suit brought by him against Milton; and 2d, through a deed executed to him by Robert Harrison. But as the deed made by the commissioners, and the decree in virtue of which it was given, are both shewn to be junior in date to a conveyance made by Milton, for the same land, it is plain that the commissioners' deed can have passed no title to Coleman. The deed from Harrison, however, as it purports to have been made after he seems to have acquired, through a regular chain of conveyance, the title of Milton, it, prima facie, confers upon Coleman a right to the land in contest. But previous to Harrison's executing the deed to Coleman, the town of Cynthiana was, by an act of the legislature of this country, established; and as the property thereof was thereby vested in trustees of the town, it is plain, the act, as it is moreover proven to have been passed through Harrison's procurement, must operate as a conveyance from him. When the town was established, it is true, according to the general laws regulating conveyances, a deed was essential to the passing of an estate of inheritance, and hence it is inferred, that without such a deed or even any written evidence of his having given his assent to the establishment of the town, Harrison's interest in the land can not have been conveyed; but as it is competent for the legislature, at any time, to change or regulate the mode of conveying real estate, there is no doubt, but by the act establishing the town, the title passed to the trustees as efficiently as though a deed had been actually sealed and delivered by Harrison. The establishment of a town by the legislature, and an investiture of the lands in trustees is a statutory conveyance, and the establishment of the town having been procured by the claimant of the land, he and those claiming through him are estopped to allege a want of title when the law passed: Vide ante, Brown v. M'Millan, ac. Assuming the act, therefore, to be a statutory convey ance, operating through Harrison's assent in procuring its passage, it follows that he would forever thereafter be estopped to deny that he then had title. And as the appellees, who were defendants in the court below, claim under the establishment of the town, in a contest with them, it equally follows that Coleman claiming through Harrison must also be estopped. And if not permitted to dispute Harrison's title, as the judgment of the court was rendered against Coleman upon that supposition, it moreover results that the decision of that court is correct. *2 The judgment must, consequently, be affirmed with cost. Ky.App. 1818. Coleman v. Morrison 1 A.K.Marsh. 406, 8 Ky. 406, 1818 WL 1440 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
