(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 213,  17 Ky. 213 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1535 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Varnon v. Moore. Dec. 13, 1824. *1 ??rror, Amendments, Interest, Construction. ??RROR TO THE HARRISON CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 82(2) 30 Appeal and Error 30III Decisions Reviewable 30III(D) Finality of Determination 30k82 Orders After Judgment 30k82(2) k. Amendment of Judgment. Most Cited  Cases Error will lie to an order amending a judgment. Interest 219 k 65 219 Interest 219IV Recovery 219k64 Pleading 219k65 k. Allegations as to Interest. Most Cited  Cases Interest cannot be given in a judgment by default on an obligation prior to the day it falls due, containing a stipulation that on several conditions it shall bear interest from a previous day, unless the declaration shows that all the conditions were fulfilled. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action of debt, in the Harrison circuit ??urt on a note bearing date the 20th of March, 1816, ??r four hundred dollars in Kentucky currency, payable ?? the 25th of December, 1818, with a proviso that in??rest should be paid from the 25th of December, 1816, ?? possession should be given to the defendant, of the ??nd and improvements, and half the fruit of the farm, ??e then present year 1816. Error will lie to an order amending a judgment. At the March term 1819, judgment was entered by ??efault, for four hundred dollars, with interest from the ??5th of December, 1818, the time when the note was ??ayable, and after several intervening terms, on the ??otion of the plaintiff, an order was made, amending ??e judgment, so as to make it bear interest from the ??5th of December, 1816. Judgment may be amended at a subsequent term, so as to change the time of the commencement of interest, where there is anything to amend by--Arg. The defendant having taken an exception thereto?? has brought this writ of error to the order amending ?? the original judgment. Where a note contains a stipulation that it shall bear interest from a given day prior to its maturity, if possession should be given the drawee of the land and improvements, and half of the fruit of the farm, the then present year, to recover interest, it must appear the land and improvements, and half the fruit, were delivered to the drawee within that year. That the amendment was improper, we can have n?? doubt. The amendment might have been permissible?? if there had been in the record, anything by which t?? amend; but there is nothing in the record by which i?? could be done. To entitle the plaintiff to interest from the 25th o?? December, 1816, he should have shown that the possession of the farm and improvements, and half the frui?? of the farm had been delivered to the defendant i?? 1816; but this does not appear, from the record, to?? have been done. There is in the declaration, an averment that possession was given to him on the ____day of ______; an?? as the judgment was taken by default, we ought, perhaps, to infer that possession had been given some tim?? before the commencement of the suit; but we canno?? be justified in making an inference that it was given i?? the year 1816, according to the condition upon whic?? alone the interest was to commence from the 25th o?? December, 1816. *2 It is probable that the circuit court interpreted th?? proviso as not fixing any time for delivering the possession, and understood the expression, ""the present yea?? 1816," as descriptive of the year's fruit, half of whic?? the defendant was to have. But we cannot admit this to be the correct interpretation.?? It is highly probable that the money for whic?? the note was given, was in part at least, if not the entire consideration of the farm; and most certainly, th?? enjoyment of the farm was the consideration for th?? stipulation that the interest should commence earlie?? than the time the principal was payable; and the inference, therefore, is strong, that it was intended by?? the parties that the enjoyment of the farm and th?? commencement of the interest should be concurrent?? and this inference is, we think, in strict conformity t?? the literal import of the proviso. That, in the declaration, it is averred the land and improvements were delivered to the defendant on the -- day of ____, will not, where the judgment is by default, warwant interest further back than the maturity of the note. The order amending the original judgment must b?? reversed with costs. Haggin, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1824. Varnon v. Moore 1 T.B.Mon. 213, 17 Ky. 213, 1824 WL 1535 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
