(Cite as: 2 Bibb 8,  5 Ky. 8 (Ky.),  1810 WL 622 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Commonwealth v. Caldwell. Spring Term, 1810. *1 A fi. fa. upon a judgment of the general Court may be issued to any county in the State, and need not be sent in the first instance to the county in which defendant resides. The residence of the defendant in Franklin, without any averment that he had any estate there to satisfy the execution, did not justify the general Court in quashing an execution issued to Ohio county. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 65 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k64 Counties to Which Execution May Issue 161k65 k. In General. Most Cited Cases An execution upon a judgment of the general court may be issued to any county in the state, and need not be sent in the first instance to the county in which the defendant resides. The residence of the defendant in Franklin county, without any averment that he had any estate there to satisfy the execution is not a sufficient reason for quashing an execution issued on a judgment of the general court to Ohio county. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THE Commonwealth having obtained a judgment in the general Court, and issued an execution thereon against Caldwell, directed to the sheriff of Ohio county, Caldwell sued out a writ of error coram nobis, with supersedeas, and assigned for error, "that the execution in the first instance hath been issued on said judgment, and sent to the sheriff of Ohio county, to be levied upon his real estate, he being a resident of Franklin county, and not of Ohio; when, by law, the execution in the first instance ought to have been directed to the sheriff of Franklin county, where his personal property is presumed to be, which is only liable in the first instance." The general Court proceeded to hear and determine the cause without any issue having been made up, either of law or of fact, and awarded judgment that the execution be quashed; to which judgment the Commonwealth prosecutes this writ of error. Three propositions are contended for on the part of the Commonwealth: 1. That a writ of fieri facias, or other writ of execution, may in the first instance issue to any county in the State. 2. If not, that the fact alleged by the assignment of error in the Court below does not warrant the conclusion, that in this case the execution was not properly directed in the first instance to the sheriff of Ohio county. And 3. If such conclusion would follow from the fact, that the fact itself was not properly tried in the Court below. The first proposition involves a question never decided by this Court, and of great importance to the practice of the country. That the general Court has power to issue its process, as well judicial as original and mesne, to any county in the State, and enforce its execution, cannot be controverted. Such a power is necessarily incident to its jurisdiction, which is bounded only by the limits of the State. To enable the Circuit Courts to reach, by their process, persons or subjects beyond the territorial limits of their jurisdiction, an express statutory provision was requisite; but such a provision is no more necessary to authorize the general Court to direct its process to any part of the State than it is to enable the Circuit Courts to issue process to any part of their respective circuits. It is clear, therefore, that writs of fieri facias, or other writs of execution, may potentially issue from the general Court to any county in the State. *2 It still, however, remains to be inquired whether such writs may in the first instance be sued out by the plaintiff ad libitum to any county he may direct. In England, it is said the plaintiff cannot regularly sue out a fieri facias into a different county from that where the action is laid without a testatum, nor a testatum without an original fieri facias. But so much is this a mere matter of form in that country, that the fieri facias on which the testatum is founded is returned of course by the attorneys themselves as original writs are--2 Salk., 590. Nor need the testatum be issued, but the award of it on the roll will be sufficient to warrant a fieri facias to a different county. And the Court will not set aside a testatum sued out without an original fieri facias, if the plaintiff afterward sue out such original fieri facias, and get it returned, so as to be able to produce it on showing cause, though a writ of error has been previously brought--2 Tidd's Prac., 930-1. Hence it is clear that the English practice in this respect is reduced to a mere idle ceremony, calculated to enhance the expense of the parties, and embarrass the plaintiff without, in the slightest degree, tending to protect the rights of the defendant. It is confidently believed that the practice has been universal, since the first institution of Courts in this State, to issue a fi. fa., or other writ of execution, to any county, without regard to the English forms of proceeding. To revive those forms, grown obsolete by disuse for so many years, would be attended with mischievous consequences. It would unsettle the proceedings heretofore had upon executions, while it would conduce in future to the purposes of chicanery, delay and expense, rather than tend to promote the ends of substantial justice. It was suggested at the bar, that if the plaintiff be permitted to sue out execution in the first instance to any county in the State, the process of the Court may be abused by perverting it to vindictive or vexatious purposes. It has already been intimated, that to authorize the Circuit Courts, or other Courts whose jurisdiction is limited to a particular section of the country, to reach, by their process, persons or subjects beyond the territorial limits of their jurisdiction, an express statutory provision was necessary. It follows, therefore, that their process can be sued out into counties not within their respective jurisdiction only in those cases in which the law has expressly authorized it. The law seems to authorize such process to issue only where the party against whom the judgment is rendered shall remove himself or effects, or shall reside out of the limits of the jurisdiction of the Court--See 1 Litt. L. K., 208-9. The restrictions imposed by this law will be sufficient to prevent the abuse of process from those Courts. But as they are, from the terms of the law, confined to Courts whose jurisdiction is limited to a particular section of the country, they are inapplicable to the general Court, or other Courts having jurisdiction co-extensive with the State. *3 The English forms of proceeding being obsolete by long desuetude, and inefficient, if revived, to guard against the abuse of the process of execution, and there being no statutory provision applicable to Courts of general jurisdiction, to protect parties from being abused by their process, must depend upon a sound discretion in the exercise of the general powers they possess over such process. Whether this was a case proper for the exercise of such discretion in quashing the execution, leads to an investigation of the second proposition contended for on the part of the Commonwealth. Caldwell, in his assignment of error on the writ of error coram nobis, has not alleged that, at the time of commencing the suit, or of the rendition of the judgment against him, he was a resident of Franklin; and if he were not, it could not be an abuse of the process of the Court to send the execution to any other county where his estate could be found. But if he were a resident of Franklin, and possessed no estate there, it is difficult to imagine a reasonable objection to issuing the execution against his estate into the county where such estate was. He has not averred that he possessed either personal or real estate in the county of Franklin, and we cannot presume a fact of this sort for the purpose of vitiating an execution. The allegation in the assignment of error in the Court below was therefore insufficient to warrant the judgment of the Court in quashing the execution. It is unnecessary to decide upon the third point made on behalf of the Commonwealth. For, as the fact alleged by Caldwell, if true, would be insufficient to authorize a judgment in his favor, it would be useless to remand the cause for the purpose of having the truth of the fact more regularly tried. Judgment reversed. Ky.App. 1810. Com. v. Caldwell 2 Bibb 8, 5 Ky. 8, 1810 WL 622 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
