(Cite as: 2 Bibb 7,  5 Ky. 7 (Ky.),  1810 WL 621 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Boyle v. Connelly. Spring Term, 1810. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 440 30 Appeal and Error 30VIII Effect of Transfer of Cause or Proceedings Therefor 30VIII(A) Powers and Proceedings of Lower Court 30k440 k. Amendment of Proceedings. Most Cited  Cases If, on oyer prayed of a deed, the wrong deed is enrolled by the clerk by mistake, the trial court may, after error brought, authorize the amendment of the record by inserting in lieu thereof an enrollment of the proper deed. Appeal and Error 30 k 648 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(J) Defects, Objections, Amendments, and Corrections 30k647 Amendment or Correction in Lower Court 30k648 k. Authority. Most Cited  Cases The lower court can amend the record after it has been transmitted, and certiorari will issue to bring up the amendment. Appeal and Error 30 k 660(3) 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(J) Defects, Objections, Amendments, and Corrections 30k658 Certiorari or Other Proceedings to Bring Up  Record 30k660 Proceedings 30k660(3) k. Proceedings Sua Sponte. Most Cited  Cases Where a transcript filed presents the essential variance between the deed declared on and that which was enrolled, the court, without application of either party, will award a certiorari. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge CLARKE absent. *1 WHEN this cause came on for trial at the last term, the transcript of the record filed presented an essential variance between the deed declared on and that which was enrolled as having been recited upon oyer. Without deciding upon the effect of such a variance where, as in this case, the defendant had plead oyer to the declaration, the Court, as there appeared from the transcript sufficient to warrant the presumption that the clerk had made a mistake, either in transcribing the record, or in enrolling the deed recited upon oyer, thought it their duty to award, ex officio, a certiorari. The return to this process presents the record as amended in the mean time, on the motion of the plaintiff, in the Court below, with a deed enrolled, comporting in substance with that declared on. The question, therefore, turns wholly upon the propriety of making the amendment in the Court below. Certiorari awarded by the Court ex officio. At common law, no amendment could be made only while the proceedings were in paper: but by various statutes of England, still in force in this country, amendments are allowable after the proceedings are entered on record; and such things as are amendable before error brought, are amendable afterward, so long as diminution may be alleged and a certiorari awarded. Under these statutes, every misprison of the clerk in any part of the process, proceedings or record is amendable. But it is a general rule that no amendment can be made unless there be something to amend by. In the present case, the amendment seems to have been warranted under these statutes. In one place in the record the enrollment of the deed declared on is commenced, and a marginal note upon the record, that it ought to have been recorded instead of the deed, which, by mistake, was enrolled at large. The presumption is therefore strong that the deed declared on was correctly recited, and that the enrollment of another deed was a mere misprison of the clerk. And the record, while it thus furnishes the means of detecting the mistake of the clerk, affords also a legitimate ground upon which it may be corrected.--Judgment affirmed. No amendment of the record can be mad unless there something to amend by. The enrollment of one deed instead of another upon oyer prayed, corrected in Court below after error brought. Ky.App. 1810. Boyle v. Connelly 2 Bibb 7, 5 Ky. 7, 1810 WL 621 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
