(Cite as: 4 Bibb 520,  7 Ky. 520 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1080 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bowman v. Bartlett and others. Apr. 21, 1817. *1 An ejectment cannot be defeated by the tenant's shewing an adverse grant of the same date of the plaintiffs, when they show no title or connection between their possession and the adverse grant. An ejectment may be defeated by showing a paramount title in a stranger, but a grant of the same date is not paramount. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 25(1) 142 Ejectment 142I Right of Action and Defenses 142k22 Defenses 142k25 Title or Right of Possession of Third  Person 142k25(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Ejectment cannot be defeated by showing an adverse grant, in a stranger, of the same date of plaintiff's. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is a writ of error to a judgment obtained by the defendants in error, in an action of ejectment brought against them by the plaintiff in error. The first question presented by the record, is whether the Court below erred in awarding a new trial after a verdict for the plaintiff? It is evident from the bill of exception taken in this case to the decision of the Court in awarding a new trial, that there is a part of the evidence not spread upon the record; and what the evidence was which was omitted to be spread upon the record, does not appear. As we cannot in a case where the evidence is thus partially stated, have a view of the whole ground upon which the case might have turned, it is impossible for this Court with propriety to say that the Court below has erred. Another question which the record in this case presents, is whether the Court below erred in instructing the jury on the second trial, that the defendants having shown an adverse grant of the same date as that of the plaintiff, was sufficient to prevent the plaintiff from recovering against them the land common to both those grants, without showing on their part any title under the adverse grant, or any connection between their possession and such adverse grant? In the case of Talbot v. Calaway, (Hard. Rep. 36) it was held to be necessary in order to recover in ejectment, that the plaintiff's grant should be elder than that of the defendant; and in the case of Coleman and ux v. Talbott, (2 Bibb. 192) it was decided that the plaintiff in ejectment could not recover against a defendant who had entered into possession with the consent of the patentee, whose patent was of the same date as that of the plaintiff. But in neither of those cases was there any intimation given that a defendant might prevent a recovery against him by showing an adverse grant of the same date of that under which the plaintiff derived title, without also showing that his possession was acquired under such adverse grant. Indeed, the opinion delivered in the latter case is plainly predicated upon the idea that the tenant in possession could not, under such circumstances, avail himself of the adverse patent. If it were conceded that he might do so, the necessary consequence would be, that a mere intruder, without the pretense of title, could hold the possession against both grantees; for if when an ejectment was brought by one, he might prevent a recovery by showing the grant of the other, so when an ejectment was brought by the latter, he might with the same propriety prevent a recovery by showing the grant of the former. A doctrine fraught with such consequences certainly cannot be admitted to be correct. *2 The grant of the plaintiff in such a case is evidence of his right of entry; and to defeat it by showing a title in a stranger, such title should be paramount to that of the plaintiff. Judgment reversed with costs. Ky.App. 1817. Bowman v. Bartlett 4 Bibb 520, 7 Ky. 520, 1817 WL 1080 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
