(Cite as: 4 Litt. 309,  14 Ky. 309 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1291 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hoskins v. Helm. Dec. 2, 1823. *1 FROM THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON HENRY DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 75 161 Execution 161III Issuance, Form, and Requisites of Writ 161k75 k. Time for issuance. Most Cited Cases An execution issued after the lapse of a year is void as to plaintiff;  and possession delivered under such execution, by the attornment of the tenant of defendant, is of no avail. Landlord and Tenant 233 k 1801(4) 233 Landlord and Tenant 233VIII Reentry and Recovery of Possession by Landlord 233VIII(D) Actions for Unlawful Detainer 233k1790 Actions 233k1801 Evidence 233k1801(4) k. Weight and sufficiency. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k291(13)) Where a tenant claims to hold adversely to his landlord, it is evidence of refusal to give up the premises sufficient to support a warrant of unlawful detainer. Adverse Possession 20 k 74 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(F) Hostile Character of Possession 20k69 Validity and Sufficiency of Title or  Claim 20k74 k. Judgments and execution and judicial sales.  Most Cited Cases The possession of land delivered under an execution, which is void because issued after the lapse of a year, by the attornment of the tenant of defendant, is not sufficient on which to base an adverse claim. TALBOT & CRITTENDEN for appellant; HARDIN for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was a warrant sued out by Helm against Hoskins for a forcible entry and detainer of land, lying in Shelby county. The jury in the country found Hoskins guilty, who traversed the inquest and took the case to the circuit court, where an issue was joined upon the traverse. An execution issued after the lapse of a year, though only voidable as to the sheriff, is void as to the plaintiff himself. On the trial, Helm, who resides in Lincoln county, proved by his agent, that on the 5th of February, 1820, he had leased the land in dispute to a certain Alexander, for that year, who was then in possession of the land as tenant of Booker, who had sold to Helm; that some time after the expiration of the lease, the agent of Helm had gone to the land, and finding Alexander had left it, he entered the house, and after remaining there from a quarter to half an hour, went away, leaving no person or property in the house, but intended to retain the possession for Helm, and remained in the neigborhood three or four days, with a view of getting some person to occupy the premises, when he heard that Hoskins had taken possession. Possession delivered under such execution, by the attornment of the tenant of the defendant, is of no avail; such attornment is void. Where a tenant claims to hold adversely to his landlord, it is evidence of refusal to give up the premises, sufficient to justify an ejectment. *2 Hoskins, on his part, produced in evidence a copy of a judgment in ejectment, obtained on the demise of Boon against Booker, at the July term, 1816, of the Shelby circuit court, and a habere facias possessionem issued thereon the third day of February, 1820, with a return thereon by the sheriff, that on the third of March, 1820, he had turned Booker out of possession, and delivered the same to Isham Talbot in his own right, and as attorney for the lessor of the plaintiff; and Hoskins also proved, that Talbot, on the day the sheriff returned that he had delivered the possession to him, leased the premises in dispute to Alexander, for the term of one year; and that after the expiration of the lease to Alexander, Talbot, by his agent, had leased the premises to Hoskins and put him in possession. After the evidence was closed. Hoskins moved the circuit court to instruct the jury in substance, 1st, that Helm had not such a possession as to entitle him to maintain the action; and 2d, that if the jury were satisfied that there had been no force used by Hoskins in taking the possession, or in subsequently detaining it from Helm, nor any demand of the possession on the part of Helm, that he could not maintain this action; but the court refused to give these instructions, but afterwards, at the instance of Hoskins, instructed the jury upon the whole case, that Helm could not maintain the action. The jury, however, found a verdict for Helm, and Hoskins moved the court for a new trial; but the court overruled the motion, to which Hoskins excepted, and a judgment having been rendered against him, he has appealed to this court. The principal question, is, whether the evidence was sufficient to entitle Helm to recover in this mode of proceeding? And this question mainly turns upon another, namely, whether the judgment and execution in ejectment read in evidence by Hoskins, can have any effect in the case? For if they can have any effect, Talbot must be considered as having thereby lawfully gained a possession in his own right, or in the right of the lessor of the plaintiff; and it can not be admitted, that Talbot could have been disseized, or that Helm could have regained to himself a possession which would enable him to recover in this action by the transient entry of his agent into the house, and departure therefrom in the interval between the time when one tenant left and another took the possession. But, on the other hand, if the judgment and execution in ejectment are to be treated as having no effect in the case, they can not justify the entry of Talbot, and he must be considered as having gained the possession by the unlawful attornment of Alexander, the tenant of Helm; and in that case, he and those claiming under him, must hold the possession as Alexander held it, and be treated as the tenants of Helm. That the judgment and execution in ejectment can have no effect in the case, we apprehend, is clear. The judgment was rendered at the July term 1816, and the execution did not issue until the 3d of February, 1820, above three years after the judgment had been rendered, nor does it appear that any execution had previously issued; and it is well settled, that a judgment, after a year and a day without execution being issued thereon, becomes extinct, and that no execution can issue thereafter, until it is revived by scire facias. The execution was, therefore, irregularly issued; and this irregularity, though it does not avoid the execution as to the sheriff, who may, nevertheless, justify under it, renders it void as to the plaintiff or his attorney, who is privy to the irregularity. See Tidd's Practice 936. The judgment, then, having become extinct by the lapse of time, and the execution being void for irregularity, could not justify Talbot's entry, and he must be considered as acquiring and holding the possession by the attornment of Alexander, which not being made in pursuance of an efficient judgment, is void under the act of assembly, and, of course, Talbot and Hoskins, who came in under him, should be treated as the tenants of Helm. Against a tenant after the expiration of his lease, the landlord may unquestionably maintain this mode of proceeding. It is true, there must be a refusal on the part of the tenant to give up the possession; but where the tenant claims to hold the possession adversely, as was done in this case, it is sufficient evidence of a refusal. *3 The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Hoskins v. Helm 4 Litt. 309, 14 Ky. 309, 1823 WL 1291 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 133 END OF DOCUMENT
