(Cite as: 4 Bibb 255,  7 Ky. 255 (Ky.),  1815 WL 758 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Clay, who sues as well for the Commonwealth as himself, v. Swett. Dec. 5, 1815. *1 Bail not requirable in an action of debt for penalty imposed by statute for receiving on board of a boat for exportation tobacco which had not been inspected, nor is a judge authorized in such a case to order bail. The statute authorizes the Court to order bail in certain cases at their discretion, and their decision in suffering defendant to appear without bail, will not be corrected by this Court. Where the verdict and judgment is for defendant, the decision of the Court upon the question as to bail, cannot affect that judgment. Confessions of the manager of the boat, as to orders given by the defendant, who was the owner, is of the character of hearsay evidence, and not admissible. A new trial will not be granted in a penal action, where the verdict is for the defendant, except when the verdict has been procured by mistake of the judge. West Headnotes Penalties 295 k 37 295 Penalties 295II Actions and Other Proceedings 295k37 k. New Trial. Most Cited Cases A new trial will not be granted in a penal action, where the verdict is for defendant, except where the verdict has been procured by mistake of the judge. Arrest 35 k 4 35 Arrest 35I In Civil Actions 35k4 k. Actions in Which Arrest Is Authorized. Most Cited Cases Bail cannot be required in an action of debt for a penalty imposed by statute for receiving on board a boat, for exportation, tobacco that has not been inspected. Evidence 157 k 242(1) 157 Evidence 157VII Admissions 157VII(D) By Agents or Other Representatives 157k240 Agents or Employees 157k242 Scope and Extent of Agency or  Employment 157k242(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases In a penal action against the owner of a boat, the confessions of the manager of the boat as to the orders given by the defendant are not admissible. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of debt for the penalty imposed by law for receiving on board of a boat for exportation, tobacco which had not been inspected. Bail was required by order of a judge, but was afterward discharged in Court and the defendant permitted to appear and plead without bail, to which the plaintiff excepted. The cause was then tried on the plea of nil debet, and on the trial the plaintiff excepted to the decision of the Court excluding proof of the confessions of the manager of the boat, as evidence of the orders given by the defendant, who was the owner. A verdict being found for the defendant, the plaintiff moved the Court for a new trial, on the grounds that the verdict was contrary to law and evidence; but the Court overruled the motion and gave judgment for the defendant, from which the plaintiff has appealed to this Court. The first objection taken by the assignment of error is to the discharge of the bail. That this object is not an available one, there can be no doubt. In an action of debt for a penalty imposed by statute, bail is not regularly requirable; and although a judge may by his order direct bail in some case in which bail could not otherwise be required, yet the cases in which he may do so are particularly specified in the act of assembly by which this authority is conferred on him; and an action of debt for a penalty imposed by statute, is not embraced in the specification. It is true that the statute imposing the penalty sued for in this case, authorizes the Court, upon the motion of the plaintiff, to require the defendant to give bail before he shall be permitted to plead. if they shall see cause to do so; but in this case the bail which was discharged had been taken without the direction of the Court, and no case is stated in the bill of exception to have been shown in Court why bail should have been required; and indeed if there had been cause shown, as it is a matter left by the terms of the law in the unlimited discretion of the Court, their opinion would be not liable to be corrected by this Court. *2 But were the decision of the Court erroneous, it would not afford an available objection in this case; for the proceedings as to the bail are dependent upon the principal suit, but not vice versa; and consequently though an error in the principal suit may affect the proceedings as to the bail, yet an error in the latter cannot affect the correctness of the judgment in the former. If the plaintiff had obtained a judgment against the defendant, he might without doubt have maintained a writ of error to correct the decision of the Court below in discharging the bail, were such decision erroneous; but it would be preposterous in the extreme, to reverse a judgment for the defendant, which in other respects was correct, because the Court erred in discharging the bail. The second objection taken by the assignment of error questions the correctness of the decision of the inferior Court in excluding proof of the confessions of the manager of the boat, as evidence of the orders given by the defendant. This proof is plainly of the character denominated hearsay evidence. According to the general rule, therefore, it was inadmissible; and it is certainly not within any of the known exceptions to the general rule. It was therefore properly excluded by the decision of the inferior Court. The third and last objection taken by the assignment of error is to the refusal of the Court to grant a new trial. This objection is certainly not less untenable than either of the former: for it is well settled, that a new trial will not be granted in a penal action, where the verdict is for the defendant. The only exception to this doctrine, is where the verdict has been produced by the mistake of the judge before whom the cause was tried. But the new trial was not asked for in this case upon that ground, nor is there anything in the record to justify a presumption that the verdict was produced through the mistake of the judges before whom this case was tried. The judgment must therefore be affirmed with costs?? Ky.App. 1815. Clay v. Swett 4 Bibb 255, 7 Ky. 255, 1815 WL 758 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
