(Cite as: 4 Litt. 7,  14 Ky. 7 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1218 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Adams v. Brown. Oct. 7, 1823. *1 FROM THE GARRARD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 394 302 Pleading 302XVII Issues, Proof, and Variance 302k386 Variance Between Allegations and Proof 302k394 k. Written Instruments. Most Cited Cases A declaration set forth a condition to pay all damages which the plaintiff should "sustain."  The writing declared on set forth a condition to pay all damages that might "accrue."  Held a material variance. Pleading 302 k 394 302 Pleading 302XVII Issues, Proof, and Variance 302k386 Variance Between Allegations and Proof 302k394 k. Written Instruments. Most Cited Cases A declaration set forth an injunction for $100, and the writing declared on set forth an injunction restraining proceedings on a judgment, except $50, with interest and costs. It was held that this was a material variance;  there being no averment that these two amounts were the same. HARDIN for plaintiff; no counsel for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action of debt for $300, brought by Brown against Adams, in the Garrard circuit court. The declaration alleges, that "on the 15th of July, 1817, in the circuit aforesaid, the defendant, with William Heard and Joshua Jacobs, by his writing obligatory, to that date, acknowledged himself indebted, and promised to pay to the plaintiff the aforesaid sum of $300 jointly and severally. To which writing was attached the following condition: That if the said Heard should succeed in an injunction which he obtained against said plaintiff for $100, with interest, or, in case of failure, should pay to the plaintiff all costs and damages which he should sustain in consequence of said injunction, then the said obligation to be void; otherwise to remain in full force. Which writing, with the aforesaid condition, is here shown." Variances held material. The declaration recited, as in the condition of the bond, an injunction for $100, with interest, etc.; the condition as set out on oyer, recited an injunction against all of a particular judgment, stating it, except $50, with the interest and costs on the judgment: Variance held material. The declaration then proceeds to allege the breaches of the condition. The defendant having craved oyer of the bond and condition, and spread them upon the record, demurred to the declaration; and he also pleaded conditions performed. The circuit court overruled the demurrer, and upon the issue joined upon the plea, the plaintiff had a verdict and judgment, to which the defendant prosecutes this writ of error. The declaration recited as a condition of the condition of the bond, that the complainant should pay all costs and damages which the defendant should sustain; the condition as set out on oyer, was for the payment of all costs and damages which might accrue: Variance held material. *2 Several points were made, by exceptions taken to the opinion of the circuit court in the progress of the trial in that court; but we have not thought it necessary to give a detail of the record in relation to those points, inasmuch as we are of the opinion that the declaration is defective, on the ground of a material variance between the condition of the bond declared on as stated in the declaration, and as it is spread upon the record by oyer. The injunction is described in the condition of the bond, as stated in the declaration, as "an injunction which he (Heard) obtained against said plaintiff for $100, with interest," &c.; whereas the condition of the bond as spread upon the record, describes the injunction as restraining "all further proceedings upon a judgment obtained by the plaintiff against Heard, in the Garrard circuit court, at the March term thereof, 1817, except so much as $50, with interest and costs upon the judgment." These descriptions of the injunction are, in terms, manifestly different. The injunction for $100, and the injunction restraining proceedings upon a judgment, except $50, with interest and costs, may, indeed, be the same in effect; but there is no averment that they are so, and where the descriptions are so variant, without such an averment, they cannot judicially, appear to be the same, and de non apparentibus et non existentibus, eadem est ratio. But there is still a further variance between the condition of the bond as alleged in the declartion, and the condition as set forth upon oyer, in this, that the former is "to pay to the plaintiff all costs and damages which he should sustain in consequence of the injunction," and the latter is, "to pay all costs and damages that may accrue, in consequence of the injunction." Now, the word sustain, used in the former, and the word accrue, used in the latter, are not only different terms, but terms of different import, as they are here applied. The word sustain, implies a loss; but the word accrue, implies a gain or acquisition. The costs, for example, whether extra or legal, expended by the plaintiff in consequence of the injunction, might be said to be sustained by him; but it is only such as were decreed to him, that could, with propriety, be said to have accrued to him in consequence of the injunction. So, any damages occasioned by the delay produced by the injunction, may be said to be sustained by the plaintiff; but it is only those damages which were adjudged to him by the decree of the court, on a dissolution of the injunction, which can, with propriety, be said to have accrued to the plaintiff. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that the plaintiff may have leave to amend his declaration, if he shall apply for that purpose, and if not, then judgment may be entered upon the demurrer, for the defendant. Ky.App. 1823. Adams v. Brown 4 Litt. 7, 14 Ky. 7, 1823 WL 1218 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
