(Cite as: 4 Bibb 569,  7 Ky. 569 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1112 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hardwick v. Hardwick. Jun. 9, 1817. *1 To an action of covenant the defendant pleads that it was given for a slave that was unsound, which was known by the plaintiff but artfully concealed; which unsoundness rendered him of no value, of which he afterward died, and so there was a failure of consideration--is good without averring that he returned or offered to return the slave, it being stated that he died. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 354(5) 343 Sales 343VII Remedies of Seller 343VII(E) Actions for Price or Value 343k352 Pleading 343k354 Plea or Answer, and Subsequent  Pleadings 343k354(5) k. Want or Failure of Consideration.  Most Cited Cases In an action of covenant, a plea that it was given for a slave that was unsound, which was known by the plaintiff, but was actually concealed, and which unsoundness rendered him of no value of, which he afterwards died, so there was a failure of consideration, is good, without averring that he returned or offered to return the slave;  it being stated that it died. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action upon a covenant for the payment of $340 in pork, to which the defendant in substance pleaded, that the covenant was executed in part of the price of a slave sold by the plaintiff to him, which slave was at the time of the sale unsound and laboring under a grievous malady of the liver, of which the plaintiff had full knowledge, but artfully concealed the same from the defendant; and that the said unsoundness and disorder rendered the slave, at the time of the sale and forever thereafter, entirely useless and of no value, and of which he afterward died; and so the defendant avers that there is an entire failure of the consideration of the covenant on which the action is brought. On a demurrer to this plea, the Court below adjudged it insufficient, and gave judgment for the plaintiff. The only question to be decided by this Court is, whether the Court below erred in adjudging the plea insufficient? That the sale of the slave may be avoided on the ground of fraud, there can be no doubt; and that the averments contained in the plea, if true, are sufficient to show that the plaintiff had committed a fraud upon the defendant in the sale, is a point not controverted: but it is contended that the plea ought to have averred that the defendant had returned, or offered to return, the slave to the plaintiff. Such an averment might have been necessary if the plea had not contained an allegation that the disorder of the slave had rendered him entirely useless and of no value, and of which he afterward died; for otherwise there would not appear to have been a total failure of the consideration of the covenant upon which the action was founded: but as the slave is alleged to be of no value, and to have died of the disease under which he labored, an averment of the return of the slave to the plaintiff, was most assuredly unnecessary. In a suit in equity brought for the purpose of vacating the contract on the ground of fraud, it would not under such circumstances be necessary to show a return of the slave; and certainly a Court of Law ought not to require more to be done than would in like circumstances be required by a Court of Equity. *2 We are of opinion, therefore, that the plea is sufficient, and that the Court below erred in sustaining the demurrer thereto. Judgment reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, that the plaintiff may have leave to withdraw his demurrer and reply, etc. Ky.App. 1817. Hardwick v. Hardwick 4 Bibb 569, 7 Ky. 569, 1817 WL 1112 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
