(Cite as: 4 Bibb 409,  7 Ky. 409 (Ky.),  1816 WL 795 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Sampson v. Overton. Oct. 11, 1816. *1 A copy of a grant, the attestation of which is not in the handwriting of the register, but in that of a clerk of the office, is not admissible in evidence. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 342 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(B) Exemplifications, Transcripts, and Certified Copies 157k342 k. Records and Proceedings in Land Office. Most Cited  Cases A copy of a grant, the attestation of which is not in the handwriting of the register, but in that of a clerk of the office, is not admissible in evidence. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. SEVERAL of the points which occurred in the case of Hedden v. Overton are presented in this case, and need not, therefore, be again particularly noticed: but in addition to them a question was made in this case whether a copy of a grant, the attestation of which was not in the handwriting of the register, but in that of a clerk of the office, was admissible evidence? There can be no doubt that the register may act by deputy, and that an attestation of a copy by his deputy would be sufficient; but there is a wide difference between a deputy and a mere clerk. The former we apprehend, must, before he can act in that character, take an oath of office; whereas the latter is required to take no such oath before he can act. In legal estimation, therefore, the acts of the former are entitled to greater credence than those of the latter. We are of opinion, therefore, that the Court below erred in deciding that the copy attested in the handwriting of the clerk was admissible evidence. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings, to be had, not inconsistent with this opinion. A petition for a rehearing was presented, and the following opinion delivered: An application for a rehearing in this case has been made, upon the ground that by an act of 1805 (page 88 of the session acts), the clerks in the register's office are required to be sworn before they can act. It is true that this provision escaped the attention of the Court, or otherwise it would have been noticed in the former opinion. But on adverting to it, we do not perceive that it has made any change in the duties or capacities of a clerk in the office; and as a mere clerk could not prior to the passage of the act in question attest a copy of a record in the name of the register, it follows as a necessary consequence that he cannot do it since. The petition for a rehearing must, therefore, be overruled. Ky.App. 1816. Sampson v. Overton 4 Bibb 409, 7 Ky. 409, 1816 WL 795 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
