(Cite as: 4 Bibb 534,  7 Ky. 534 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1091 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Commonwealth, at the instance of Johnson, v. Jones. May 28, 1817. *1 A writ of error cannot be maintained in the name of the Commonwealth at the instance of an individual to reverse an order of a County Court establishing an inspection. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 148 30 Appeal and Error 30IV Right of Review 30IV(A) Persons Entitled 30k148 k. Persons Other Than Parties or Privies. Most Cited  Cases A writ of error cannot be maintained in the name of the commonwealth, at the instance of an individual, to reverse an order of the county court establishing an inspection on land. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is a writ of error to reverse an order of the Gallatin County Court establishing an inspection on the land of the defendant in error. The first inquiry presented in the case is, whether the writ of error is maintainable in the name of the Commonwealth or not? We have no hesitation in deciding that it is not. It is not pretended that there is any precedent or adjudication in analogous cases which can justify this mode of bringing the writ of error; and the novelty of the proceeding, though perhaps not a conclusive, is certainly a very strong argument against its propriety. But it may be affirmed with confidence, we apprehend, that the proceeding is wholly indefensible on principle. The Commonwealth is no party to the record, nor has she any right or property in that which is the subject of controversy. She has lost nothing, therefore, by the order establishing the inspection, nor would she gain anything by its reversal: and it is a general rule, that no one who is not prejudiced by the judgment, and would not be entitled to the thing were it reversed, can bring a writ of error. It is true the Commonwealth may be said to be interested in the due observance of the laws in relation to the establishment of inspections, as she may no doubt in the same sense be said to be interested in the correct administration of the laws of the government in general; but as this is an interest too remote and indirect to justify her bringing a writ of error in other cases for the reversal of an erroneous judgment to which she is not a party, it must be equally so in a case like the present. Beside, the Commonwealth must have at least as great an interest in affirming an order establishing an inspection, where it was permitted by law and required by the public convenience, as she can have in reversing an order establishing an inspection where it was forbidden by law and not demanded by public convenience: and if she might bring a writ of error in the latter case, it would be equally proper that she should be a defendant in the former. But she certainly cannot be both plaintiff and defendant; and it would be preposterous in the extreme, first to determine that the order ought to be reversed or affirmed, and then to decide, as the case might be, that she should be either plaintiff or defendant. *2 We infer, therefore, that she has not such an interest as to entitle her to be either plaintiff or defendant, and consequently the writ of error in this case is improperly brought in her name, and must be quashed. Ky.App. 1817. Commonwealth v. Jones 4 Bibb 534, 7 Ky. 534, 1817 WL 1091 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
