(Cite as: 4 Bibb 191,  7 Ky. 191 (Ky.),  1815 WL 717 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Vance v. Haslett. Oct. 9, 1815. *1 A cause of challenge to a juror not discovered until after verdict, is a good cause for a new trial. A juror objected to for partiality is an improper witness on the motion for a new trial to prove his impartiality. A juror declaring previously that if he was of the jury he would give 1000 dollars damages, was not an impartial juror: and such cause of objection discovered after verdict, is sufficient cause to set aside the verdict. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 42(2) 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(D) Disqualification or Misconduct of or Affecting Jury 275k42 Disqualification of Jurors 275k42(2) k. Bias or Prejudice and Formation or Expression  of Opinion. Most Cited Cases Where a juror, previously to the trial, declared that if he was of the jury he would give $1,000 damages, and defendant did not know the fact until after the verdict, it is sufficient ground for a new trial. New Trial 275 k 142 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k141 Affidavits and Testimony of Jurors 275k142 k. In General. Most Cited Cases On a motion for a new trial, because one of the jurors had prejudged the case, the juror himself is not a proper witness to prove his impartiality. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of assault and battery. The cause was tried on the general issue and a verdict being found for the plaintiff for $372 75, the defendant moved the Court for a new trial, on the ground that after the verdict was rendered he had discovered that one of the jurors who tried the cause had declared before the trial that if he was on the jury he would give $1000 damages against the defendant; but the Court overruled the motion and gave judgment for the plaintiff, from which the defendant has prosecuted this appeal. We can have no doubt that in point of fact the ground upon which the motion for a new trial was made, was sufficiently established. One witness who was introduced in support of the motion, deposed that shortly after the affray which was the subject of the action, he heard the juror declare that if he should be on the jury he would give $1000 against the defendant, and that at different times afterward he had heard him use similar expressions. Other witnesses, though apparently introduced for the purpose of discrediting his testimony, rather corroborate it; for although they say they do not recollect the expression deposed to by the first witness, they declare that they had heard the juror speak hardly of the defendant in relation to the transaction in question. And even the juror himself, though very improperly introduced to prove his own impartiality, does not acquit himself of having prejudged the cause against the defendant; for at the same time that he declares he had no quarrel with, or ill will toward the the defendant, and does not recollect to have used the expressions imputed to him by the first witness, he acknowledges that he had said that he would not be in the shoes of the defendant for $1000. *2 The whole testimony, therefore concurs in making an impression upon the mind, that the juror was prejudiced (if not against the defendant personally) at least against his cause. This is not only a good cause of challenge before trial, but when not discovered until after the verdict, as was the case in this instance, it is, according to the repeated decisions of this Court, a sufficient cause for a new trial--M'Kinley v. Smith, Hard. Rep. 167--Pierce v. Bush, vol. 3, 347. Judgment reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that the verdict may be set aside and a new trial awarded. Ky.App. 1815. Vance v. Haslett 4 Bibb 191, 7 Ky. 191, 1815 WL 717 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
