(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 126,  19 Ky. 126 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1212 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Fitzhugh v. The Bank of Shepherdsville and Others. Nov. 23, 1825. *1 Lien. Stock. Corporations. Seal. Purchasers. Notice. Jurisdiction. Specific Performance. APPEAL FROM THE BULLITT CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Banks and Banking 52 k 42 52 Banks and Banking 52II Banking Corporations and Associations 52II(B) Capital, Stock, and Dividends 52k42 k. Lien of bank on stock or dividends. Most Cited  Cases Where a corporation issues a certificate of its stock, stating on its face that it is transferable, it has no lien thereon for debts due the bank. Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 1439 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101V Capital and Stock 101V(D) Transfer of Shares 101k1436 Registration or Transfer on Corporate Books 101k1439 k. Duty to make or allow. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 101k130) Where a bank had issued a certificate of stock transferable on its face, it wash held that a purchaser of such certificate could, in equity compel a transfer of the stock, and that the bank could not retain the stock as security, when it had no express pledge of the stock. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY JUDGE MILLS.FNa1 FNa1. Absent, Chief Justice Boyle. Statement of the facts. Fitzhugh, the complainant below, and now appellant, endorsed a bill of exchange, to the Bank of the United States, drawn by Thomas Q. and Henry H. Roberts. The bill was protested, and on notice thereof, Fitzhugh discharged and took up the bill, and applied to the drawers for the amount, who gave him therefor forty-five shares of stock, in the bank of Shepherdsville, on which they had paid three instalments, amounting to $2,700, about the same he had paid for the bill. Thomas Q. and H. H. Roberts, held the script of the bank, for said shares, or a certificate of the numbers and amount, stating on its face, that the stock was transferable only at bank, personally or by attorney. They accordingly gave the appellant a letter of attorney to the cashier of the bank, authorizing him to make the transfer, and on making application to the cashier to make the transfer, he refused to do so. He next applied to the Messrs. Robertses, and they gave him a writing, confirming their first transfer, and conveying the stock to him, and appointing another agent to apply for them, and get the transfer made. But on the second application, the officers of the bank, still refused to permit the transfer to be made. The appellant then brought this bill against the bank and the Messrs. Robertses, to compel an assignment of the stock to him, and to compel the bank to account to him for the dividends, after the transfer. Fitzhugh's bill. The bank answered, admitting the facts, and alleging as the only reason why the transfer was not made, that the Messrs. Robertses were then indebted to the bank a sum of money, due by notes endorsed, and it was understood, they say, when the accommodation was made, the stock was a pledge, although there was no writing to that effect. *2 Answer of the bank. The question is, which has the preference? Can the bank retain the stock as a security to them against the transfer made to the appellant? The court below decided this question in favor of the bank, and dismissed the bill, as to the bank, but gave a decree against the Messrs. Robertses for the amount. This decree is questioned by this appeal. Decree of the circuit court. We can not find either in the answer of the bank, or in the proof, a special pledge of this stock. It is proved that the bank was then in the habit of lending to the stockholder only, and that to the amount of their stock; and the stockholders in this instance, when they got their last accommodation, made use of their stock, as an inducement to the accommodation. But the bank required and obtained endorsers then supposed to be good, and after the last accommodation, issue their script specifying on its face, that the stock was negotiable. Further statement of the facts. At the time the stock was sold to the complainant, the debts due from the firm of Thomas Q. and H. H. Roberts, had not become payable, and they had been in no default when the demand of a transfer was made at the bank. Afterwards they failed, and their paper was protested, and actions were brought on both their notes, against them and their endorsers. In one of these actions, judgment was obtained against the whole, and an ineffectual execution against all but one endorser, as to whom no execution has been prosecuted, and there is no proof of insolvency as to him. In the other case, which is the principal demand at the trial, the cause was dismissed without prejudice against the endorsers, who questioned by their plea the diligence of the bank, and no judgment or execution has been had against them, although there is no proof rendering it probable that an execution would be ineffectual as to them also, owing to their insolvency. It is proved that in other cases, when the bank loaned on the credit of the stock only, it had taken written pledges, and that it had admitted a transfer of stock, when the stockholders were indebted, without hesitation, and a short time before this transaction arose, the bank had admitted a transfer of part of the stock in question, to the firm of Thomas Q. and H. H. Roberts, by a debtor to a considerable amount. The controversy brings itself then to this point, had the bank a general lien by law, on the stock held in the institution by their debtors, notwithstanding they had issued their script, declaring the existence of the stock and its negotiability. Where a corporation issue a certificate of its stock, stating on its face that it is transferable, it has no lien for debts, but the purchaser may have it transferred to him; the chancellor will compel it. It is true, the bank had possession of this stock, and possession oftentimes carries with it a lien to indemnify for debts contracted on the credit of the thing possessed. Such is the case decided at the present term in Bard, &c. v. Stuart. Still, however, we apprehend the possession of the bank in this instance, can give it no lien. It had no express pledge of the stock, and all the lien contended for, is that which the law may infer from the circumstances. No such inference can be drawn. Bank stock is an article of commerce; and the certificate of shares, is not only the evidence of title, but the evidence of the negotiability of the the stock, and must be taken as conclusive evidence against the bank, that the stock is salable and free of incumbrance. If the bank wishes to avail itself of such a pledge, it must take from the holder this evidence of title and transferable quality, and shew an express pledge. Otherwise the holder of such evidence, might delude and impose upon purchasers, and the bank stand as a tacit accomplice in that delusion, and then be permitted to take from an innocent purchaser, the title thus acquired. *3 We attach no importance to the want of a seal of the corporation of this scrip. Whether sealed or not, its terms equally invited purchasers to take it, and the appellant having done so, he is entitled to a clear preference over the bank. The court below, ought, therefore, to have decreed the transfer of the stock to the appellant, and to have directed an account of the dividends to be taken, and to have rendered a decree therefor against the bank, and if this had proved inadequate to discharge the demand of the complainant, to have rendered a decree for the residue against Thomas Q. and H. H. Roberts. A seal to such a certificate of stock, is not necessary. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for such decree, and proceedings to be there had as shall accord with this opinion. Bibb and Haggin, for appellant; Crittenden, for defendants. Ky.App. 1825. Fitzhugh v. Bank 3 T.B.Mon. 126, 19 Ky. 126, 1825 WL 1212 (Ky.), 16 Am.Dec. 90 END OF DOCUMENT
