(Cite as: 2 Bibb 238,  5 Ky. 238 (Ky.),  1810 WL 715 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Davis, a man of color, v. Curry Fall Term, 1810. *1 Color and long possession are such presumptive evidences of slavery as to throw the burden of proof on a negro claiming freedom. The Courts of the State are not bound to take notice of the laws of sister States; they must be proved. But the Courts of the States may take notice of the laws of the mother country regulating the introduction of slaves into the colonies, before the revolution, as they are now bound to notice the laws of the general government. A man of color brought from Delaware presumed a slave unless it is proved that the laws of that State since the revolution, have abolished slavery. West Headnotes Slaves 356 k 3 356 Slaves 356k3 k. Who Were Slaves. Most Cited Cases A man of color, brought into Kentucky from Delaware, is presumed to be a slave, unless it is proved that the laws of that state, since the Revolution, have abolished slavery. Slaves 356 k 3 356 Slaves 356k3 k. Who Were Slaves. Most Cited Cases In an action by one held in slavery for his freedom, proof by defendant that plaintiff is a negro and had been for a long time in his possession is sufficient to throw the burden on plaintiff of proving his right of freedom. Evidence 157 k 35 157 Evidence 157I Judicial Notice 157k35 k. Laws of Other States. Most Cited Cases The courts will not take judicial notice of the laws of the other states, but they must be proved in the same manner as other facts. Evidence 157 k 37 157 Evidence 157I Judicial Notice 157k37 k. Laws of Foreign Countries. Most Cited Cases Where countries have been acquired by the United States, courts take judicial notice of the laws which prevailed there up to the time of such acquisition. Such laws are not foreign, but those of an antecedent government. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge LOGAN absent. THIS is a writ of error to a judgment in an action for freedom. On the trial in the Court below two bills of exception were taken by the plaintiff. The first in substance states, that the defendant relied on his possession of the plaintiff as a slave from the year 1789 or '90 and on the presumption of slavery arising out of the color of the plaintiff, as sufficient evidence of title in him to put the plaintiff on the proof of his right to freedom; that the plaintiff objected to the sufficiency of this evidence, and prayed for the instruction of the Court on the point but that the Court were of opinion that the evidence was sufficient, and refused to give the instruction. The second bill of exceptions states, that the plaintiff then proved that in the year 1789, he was brought as a slave into the then district, now State of Kentucky, fro?? the State of Delaware, where he had before his removal (as was proven by the defendant) been held as a slave; and there being no proof of the legality of the slavery in Delaware, nor any law of that State shown which authorizes slavery, that he moved the Court to instruct the jury that the evidence on the part of the defendant was not sufficient to support his title, but the Court refused to give the instruction. *2 Two questions are presented by this case--1st, whether color and possession afford such a presumption of slavery as to throw the burden of proof upon the person claiming right to freedom; and 2dly, if so, whether that presumption is destroyed by the removal of the plaintiff from the State of Delaware, there being no law of that State shown authorizing slavery. The first question admits of but little doubt. Evidence, whether written or oral, is either positive or presumptive. Positive evidence is the direct proof of the fact or point at issue: presumptive evidence consists in the proof of some other fact or facts, from which the point in issue may be inferred. The strength of the presumption is always in proportion to the frequency of the connection between the fact to be inferred and that which is proven. If the connection be found by experience and observation to be invariable in all instances, the presumption is what in law is denominated violent, and is equal to full proof. If the connection be general, not universal, the inference of the existence of the one from the proof of the other, though rational, is not necessary, and the presumption amounts to a probable one only. But if experience shows that the fact intended to be inferred is as often or oftener disjoined than it is connected with that which is proven, the proof of the latter creates no presumption of the existence of the former. Upon these principles depends the solution of the question now under consideration. From the earliest periods of the settlement of Virginia until the year 1778, persons of the African race imported into this country were made slaves, and their descendants in the maternal line have ever since been continued by law to be subject to slavery, unless they have acquired freedom by emancipation. Those who voluntarily migrated at any time, and those who have been imported since 1778, and their descendants in the maternal line, are not by law slaves; but it is believed if there are any such they are very few, and when added to those who have acquired freedom by emancipation, constitute but a small portion of the aggregate number of the African race which we have among us. In a great majority of instances, therefore, the characteristic marks of the African are found to be connected with slavery, and the existence of the latter may well be inferred from the proof of the former. Color being one of the criteria by which the African race is distinguished from the rest of the population of the country, must consequently afford (especially when accompanied, as in this case, with possession as a slave for a period of 18 or 20 years) a presumption of slavery upon which the master may rely until the contrary is proven. The second question admits of considerable doubt; we are, however, disposed to think it must be decided in the negative. The position that the presumption of slavery which would otherwise attach to a person of the African race, is destroyed by proving that he was removed from a sister State, is founded upon the idea that the Courts of this State are not authorized judicially to know what the laws of another State are, unless they be proven. However correct this proposition may be in general, it seems necessary that it should be understood with some restrictions, and that it is not applicable to the laws authorizing slavery. *3 Slavery, it is believed, was originally introduced into the colonies by a regulation of the mother country, of which the Courts in all the colonies were equally bound to take notice, in the same manner as the Courts of the several States are now bound to take notice of any regulation of the general government of the United States; and what the Courts of the colonies were then bound to take notice of judicially, we must still be presumed to know, if not as matter of law, at least as matter of history. It was indeed conceded in argument by one of the counsel for the plaintiff, that we might judicially take notice that the laws of the colonies authorized slavery prior to the revolution, but it was contended that by the revolution, all the laws of the colonies were ips?? facto abolished, and that slavery can exist de jure in no State where since that event laws have not been enacted to authorize it. This position in the latitude contended for, cannot be admitted to be correct. It is unquestionably true with respect to those laws which may be properly denominated political, those which related to the organization of their governments and which prescribed the powers and duties of the public functionaries. But those laws which guaranteed private property and which regarded the relations and duties of husband and wife, parent and child, and master and servant, were not affected by the revolution; these must be considered as remaining the same now as they were prior to the revolution, unless they are shown to have been changed or repealed by subsequent legislative acts. As therefore in the State of Delaware we must presume that the law tolerates slavery, inasmuch as that was the case before the revolution, the presumption of slavery which attaches to the plaintiff is not destroyed by proof of his removal from that State.--Judgment affirmed etc. Ky.App. 1810. Davis v. Curry 2 Bibb 238, 5 Ky. 238, 1810 WL 715 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
