(Cite as: 4 Bibb 33,  7 Ky. 33 (Ky.),  1815 WL 644 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Phillips v. Rothwell. Apr. 10, 1815. *1 One who entered as tenant, cannot controvert the title of his landlord. So if the tenant make a deed of bargain and sale to another, in fee, the alienee would be in no better condition than the tenant, and could not controvert the title by which the tenant entered. West Headnotes Landlord and Tenant 233 k 664 233 Landlord and Tenant 233III Landlord's Title and Reversion 233III(B) Estoppel of Tenant 233k664 k. Persons estopped. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 233k64) If a tenant make a deed of bargain and sale to another in fee, the alienee cannot controvert the title of the landlord under whom the tenant entered. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an ejectment brought by Phillips against Rothwell, to recover the possession of a lot in the town of Louisville. The record presents several points. The first we shall notice grows out of the refusal of the Court below to instruct the jury that the defendant could not controvert the title of the plaintiff. It appeared that the defendant claimed the lot by a deed of bargain and sale from one Harrison, who it was proved had acquired the possession as tenant to the plaintiff; and the instruction asked for was predicated upon the hypothesis that the jury should believe that he so held the lot when he sold to the defendant. That Harrison could not in such case have controverted the title of the plaintiff, is perfectly clear. Having entered and held under the plaintiff, he would, according to the well settled doctrine of the common law, which has been repeatedly recognized by this Court, be precluded from setting up any adverse title. As the defendant acquired the possession under Harrison, the natural and just conclusion would seem to be, that he could stand on no other or better ground. To permit him to do so, would tend to facilitate the fraud which the doctrine prohibiting the tenant from disputing his lessor's title is intended to prevent. It was supposed in the argument, that the conveyance from Harrison operated as a disseisin of the plaintiff, and that the defendant's possession was adverse. Were this doctrine admitted to be correct, the conclusion would not follow that he might controvert the title of the plaintiff. There is no doubt if the lessee after his term expires resists the entry of his lessor, that the latter may treat him as a disseiser; and yet it is clear he cannot in such a case dispute his lessor's title.--See the case of M'Clelland v. Sprigg, 3 vol. 266. But the doctrine that the deed from Harrison to the defendant operates as a disseisin, cannot be admitted. It is true that a feoffment, fine, or a recovery to a stranger, would at common law create a forfeiture of the lessee's term, and render him and his feoffee, etc., liable to be treated as disseisers; but a conveyance by deed of bargain and sale, or other conveyance operating by virtue of the statute of uses, creates no forfeiture--Co. Litt. 233 (note 1). Such a conveyance does not operate, as a conveyance at common law would, to transfer a wrongful estate in fee, but to transfer such interest only as the bargainee might rightfully part with. Where the lessee's term had not expired, the entry of his bargainee would therefore be congeable, and when he entered he would be in of the estate the lessee had in the premises. He would in effect and in law, therefore, be the mere assignee of the term, liable as such to all the covenants which run with the land, and in all respects stand in the place of the lessee. *2 We are therefore of opinion the Court below erred in not instructing the jury that the defendant could not dispute the plaintiff's title, and the judgment on this ground must be reversed. The other points seem unnecessary to be decided, as they grow out of the adverse title set up by the defendant.--Judgment reversed. Ky.App. 1815. Phillips v. Rothwell 4 Bibb 33, 7 Ky. 33, 1815 WL 644 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
