(Cite as: 4 Bibb 20,  7 Ky. 20 (Ky.),  1815 WL 637 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lee v. Durret. Apr. 14, 1815. *1 D purchased of M 250 acres, his choice out of a tract; the survey of the quantity was made by L, to whom M sold and conveyed the residue. The survey made for D falling short of the quantity, L, who purchased with notice of the prior purchase of D, shall convey to him the deficit. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 167 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(C) Quantity of Land and Appurtenances 400k167 k. Curing or Supplying Deficiency or Other Variance  from Contract. Most Cited Cases A. sold to B. 250 acres, to be chosen by B. out of a tract of 500 acres, and afterwards sold the residue to C. B. having made his choice, C., who was a surveyor, laid off B.'s land, and conveyances were made by A. in accordance with said survey.  B.'s land falling short, he filed his bill against C. to supply the deficit, and a decree was granted accordingly. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. MASTERSON, being the owner of a tract of land of 500 acres, sold to Durret 250 acres, his choice thereof, and afterward sold the residue of the tract to Lee. At the request of Masterson, Lee, who was the county surveyor, laid off Durret's land, he having previously made choice of the side on which it should lie; and deeds of conveyance were made by Masterson to Lee and Durret, according to the survey made by Lee. Durret having subsequently discovered that his tract as described in his deed was less than his true quantity, filed his bill to obtain from Lee a conveyance of so much of his tract as would supply the deficit. The Court below decreed accordingly, from which decree Lee has appealed to this Court. That there is a deficit in the tract conveyed to Durret, is a fact not contested. How this deficit was produced, whether by fraud or mistake, and if the latter, as is quite probable, whether the mistake was that of the chainmen or surveyor, cannot be material. It is plain from the circumstances of the case, that Durret received his deed on the faith of its containing the quantity he had contracted for; and his consent to waive his right to any part of it, cannot therefore be presumed. That his equity, to the whole extent of his purchase, is superior to Lee's, is clear: for his purchase was made before Lee's; and the rule in equity is, that priority of time gives the advantage in right. Had Lee indeed been ignorant of the quantity to which Durret by his contract was entitled, he might have shielded himself upon the ground of his being a purchaser without notice. But the fact is not alleged by Lee, and every circumstance of the transaction precludes such an idea. Durret then having shown a superior equity to so much of the land held by Lee as will supply the deficit in the quantity contained in his deed, has made out a clear case for relief. As to the objection to the decree for costs, if Lee had, when the mistake was discovered, shown a willingness to correct it, the objection might have been entitled to weight; but he has manifested no such disposition; on the contrary, he has resisted the claim to every extent and in every shape in which it was made. *2 The decree is therefore correct, and must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Lee v. Durret 4 Bibb 20, 7 Ky. 20, 1815 WL 637 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
