(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 11,  17 Ky. 11 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1465 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Trustees of Perryville v. Letcher. Oct. 6, 1824. *1 Pleading by Plaintiff, Pleading by Defendant, Evidence. ERROR TO THE MERCER CIRCUIT; WILLIAM L. KELLY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 328(1) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k328 Defenses 95k328(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases In an action for a breach of a covenant to pay an order to be drawn by a certain person for a sum to be ascertained by the plaintiff and such person, it cannot be pleaded that the order was drawn for too great a sum, or that the true amount had been paid. Contracts 95 k 330(2) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k330 Parties 95k330(2) k. Plaintiffs in General. Most Cited  Cases Where the immediate interest in a covenant is several, the party having it must sue alone, though the words be joint, and another have a contingent interest in the performance. Contracts 95 k 333(5) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k333 Allegation or Statement of Contract or  Promise 95k333(5) k. Pleading Contract or Specifications. Most  Cited Cases An agreement referred to in an instrument sued on need not be set out, where it appeared it could not modify the agreement for the breach of which the action is brought. Contracts 95 k 349(1) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k347 Evidence 95k349 Admissibility 95k349(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases In an action for a breach of a covenant to pay an order to be drawn by a certain person for a sum to be ascertained by the plaintiff and such person, evidence that the order had been drawn for too great a sum, or that the demand for which it was to be drawn had been paid to the drawer, is inadmissible. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Statement of the case. This was an action of covenant brought by Letcher against Wade and others, on a writing signed as well by the plaintiff and a certain William W. Ewing, as by the defendants. In the writing the defendants represent themselves to be trustees of Perryville, and of the meeting-house, and after reciting a meeting by them to ascertain whether or not the meeting-house was half done, agreeable to contract, and enumerating certain parts of the work done and materials furnished, and in preparation by Ewing, the undertaker, the writing proceeds as follows: "The whole of which materials, the said Ewing, as the undertaker, and Stephen G. Letcher, the bricklayer, who claims part of the brick, do hereby surrender and give up to the trustees of said town and meeting-house, for the special purpose of completing the said building. In consideration of which, the said trustees do hereby agree, that the meeting-house above mentioned, when all the above materials are vested in them, is, by the said trustees, considered as half done; and it is further understood by the trustees, Ewing and Letcher, that the said Letcher, is to take an order from Ewing for what the brick-work may amount to, and the trustees agree the order from Ewing to Letcher is to be paid to said Letcher." *2 The covenant. The declaration, after setting forth the writing, avers that all the above named materials were furnished the said trustees, and that the plaintiff, Letcher, performed the brick-work, which amounted to $481, for which Ewing, in pursuance of said writing, gave an order to the plaintiff upon the trustees, which was afterwards presented to them for payment; but that they wholly failed and refused to pay the same. To the declaration the defendants demurred; but the circuit court overruled the demurrer. The defendants then filed three pleas, to each of which the plaintiff demurred, and the demurrers were sustained and the pleas adjudged to be insufficient. The defendants having failed to plead further, an inquiry of damages was awarded, and on taking the inquest, the plaintiff objected to the admission of any testimony to prove the value of the brick-work done by him to be less than the amount of the order given by Ewing to Letcher, or any testimony to prove the amount of any payments made to Ewing, or any testimony as to the full value of the whole work in building the meeting-house, or any part thereof, and the court sustained the objection and excluded all evidence offered by the defendants to these points, to which the defendants excepted. The jury found a verdict for $397 damages, for which judgment was rendered, and the defendants have brought the case to this court by writ of error with supersedeas. (1.) The decision of the circuit court upon the demurrer to the declaration, is first in order to be noticed. It is objected that the declaration is defective in not having set forth the agreement between the trustees and Ewing, the undertaker. As Ewing is styled the undertaker, in the writing declared on, it is necessarily implied, that there was an agreement between him and the trustees respecting the building of the meetinghouse; but what that agreement was, can not be judicially known to the court, as it is not made a part of the record by the pleadings of the parties. But be the agreement what it may, we can with certainty, say, it can not modify the agreement upon which this action is brought; for the latter is an absolute agreement to pay the order drawn by Ewing for the amount of the brick-work done by Letcher, without any reference to the former agreement, and can not, therefore, be modified by it; and, of course, it follows, if the agreement between the trustees and Ewing, as undertaker, could not modify the agreement for the breach of which the action is brought, it was unnecessary to set it forth in the declaration. (1) It is not necessary to set out the writing referred to in the instrument sued upon, where it appears it "could not modify the agreement for the breach of which the action is brought." (2.) Again, it is objected that Ewing should have joined in the action, and that it was improperly brought in the name of Letcher alone. Ewing was undoubtedly interested in the agreement on the part of the trustees to pay the order drawn by him in favor of Letcher; for on the dishonor of the order by them, he would have been responsible for the amount, being duly notified of the fact; but his interest was obviously not a joint interest with Letcher, the interest of Letcher being immediate and direct, and that of Ewing being only contingent or conditional; and the rule upon this subject is, that where the interest is joint, though the words of the covenant be several, the action must be joint; but if the interest be several, though the words of the covenant be joint, the action must be several. The action was, therefore, correctly brought in the name of Letcher alone. *3 (2) Where the immediate interest in a covenant is several, the party having it must sue alone, though the words be joint and another have a contingent interest terest in the performance. These are the only objections relied on as arising out of the demurrer to the declaration, and we perceive no others which can be pretended to be availing. The declaration is not, indeed, drawn with technical skill and precision; but it shows substantially a good cause of action in Letcher against the trustees. (3.) The decision of the circuit court adjudging the pleas insufficient, is next to be noticed. In the history of the case, we have not given the pleas at large; nor do we deem it necessary now to do so. All the pleas are obviously predicated upon the idea that the order drawn by Ewing in favor of Letcher, was for more than the amount of the brick-work done by Letcher, and that by the payment of a less sum, the trustees had discharged their contract; but this idea is clearly erroneous. As Ewing was the undertaker of the whole work of the meeting-house, and probably for a stipulated price, it would seem naturally to be a matter exclusively between him and Letcher, to ascertain the amount of the brick-work; and as by the agreement of the parties, they had pointed out no other means of ascertaining it, and Ewing was bound to draw the order for the amount of the brick-work, and the trustees had stipulated that the order should be paid, it was plain that it was the intention of the parties, that the amount should be fixed by the assent of Ewing and Letcher alone. It follows, therefore, that the trustees were bound by the amount for which the order was drawn, and that it was not competent for them to allege that the true amount of the brick-work was less, or that by the payment of such less sum, they had discharged their contract. The pleas were, consequently, correctly adjudged to be insufficient. (3) In an action for a breach of a covenant to pay an order to be drawn by a certain person, for a sum to be ascertained by the plaintiff and such person, it can not be pleaded that the order was drawn for too great a sum, or that the true amount had been paid. (4.) The decision of the circuit court in excluding the evidence offered by the trustees, only remains to be noticed. Upon this subject little need be said. It is clear, from what has already been observed, that the trustees were bound by the amount of the order, and that, of course, the testimony offered by them to prove the value of the brick-work done by Letcher, to be less, was inadmissible. The testimony offered by them to prove payment to Ewing, was as clearly inadmissible; for the contract for the breach of which the action was brought, bound the trustees to pay the amount of the order to Letcher, and a payment to Ewing could not operate as a discharge of it. And with respect to the testimony to prove the value of the whole work of the meeting-house, we can perceive no bearing that it had upon the subject, and it must, we think, be regarded as wholly immaterial, and on that ground was inadmissible. *4 (4) It can not in such case be given in evidence that the order had been drawn for too great a sum, nor that the demand for which it was to be drawn had been paid to the drawer. Evidence of the amount of the consideration performed by both plaintiff and drawer is wholly irrelevant. The judgment must be affirmed with costs and damages. Sharp, attorney-general, for plaintiffs; Haggin, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Trustees of Perryville v. Letcher 1 T.B.Mon. 11, 17 Ky. 11, 1824 WL 1465 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 77 END OF DOCUMENT
