(Cite as: 2 Bibb 170,  5 Ky. 170 (Ky.),  1810 WL 683 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Abney v. Brownlee. Fall Term, 1810. *1 If covenant real be broken in the lifetime of the obligee, the executor or administrator may have an action of covenant; otherwise the covenant belongs to the heir. Upon covenant to convey land, brought by executor, the declaration must show a breach in the lifetime of the testator--Acc. Hatcher v. Galloway's ex'r, post. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 51 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k48 Debts and Rights of Action 162k51 k. Right of Action for Death of Decedent. Most  Cited Cases If a covenant real is broken in the lifetime of the obligee, his executor or administrator must sue for the breach. If it is broken after the death of the obligee, the heir must sue. Executors and Administrators 162 k 443(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k443 In General 162k443(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The declaration in an action by an executor for breach of covenant real must show a breach in the lifetime of the testator, since otherwise the right of action belongs to the heir. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of covenant brought by the appellee, as executor of the covenantee, against the appellant, upon an agreement under seal, to convey a certain tract of land on or before a given day. The breach assigned, is, in the non-conveyance of the land to the covenantee or his heirs, without averring that the breach happened in the lifetime of the covenantee. The only question which seems of importance to be decided in this case respects the right of the executor to sue upon this covenant. Whether the right of action upon covenants of this sort belong to the heir, or to the executor or administrator, depends more upon positive institution, than upon principles of natural justice. For the rule of decision, therefore, we must resort to authority, rather than to reason. The distinction deducible from all the authorities which we have had an opportunity of examining seems to be, that where the breach of the covenant has taken place in the lifetime of the covenantee, the executor or administrator will have the right of action: but if the breach happen not till after his death, the right of action will belong to the heir. If the covenant be broken in the lifetime of the covenantee, he becomes entitled to damages for the breach; and these damages being merely personal, go to the executor or administrator, his personal representative. But if the time for the performance of the covenant do not elapse until after the death of the covenantee, the covenant can be performed to the heir only: and it would seem to follow, as an obvious consequence, that the heir, and not the executor, had a right to demand the performance, or a compensation for a breach of the covenant. A covenant to convey land, though it does not create a legal estate in the land, transfers to the covenantee a legal right to demand such an estate; and this right will descend to his heirs, and be recognized by Courts of law, as well as of equity. *2 The distinction here taken seems to be fully supported by the following authorities: F. N. B., 341, and Dy., 217, there cited--Went. Off. Ex., 65--2 Bac. Abr., 69, 70, and Vent., 175--2 Lev., 26--Esp. N. P., 294-5, and the cases there cited. As the right of the appellee to sue upon this covenant could only accrue by a breach in the lifetime of his testator, an averment to that effect is indispensably necessary, and the want of it a fatal defect in his title. It is, therefore, considered by the Court, that the judgment be reversed, and the cause remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions that the plaintiff in that Court, if he shall apply for that purpose, have leave to amend his declaration, upon the payment of the costs which may have accrued in that Court subsequently to filing the declaration. But if he shall not apply for leave to amend, that then judgment be entered for the defendant. Which is ordered to be certified, etc. Ky.App. 1810. Abney v. Brownlee 2 Bibb 170, 5 Ky. 170, 1810 WL 683 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
