(Cite as: 1 Bibb 360,  4 Ky. 360 (Ky.),  1809 WL 738 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Outen v. Mitchels. May 23, 1809. *1 On bond conditioned for payment of money by installments, judgment may be entered for penalty to be discharged by payment of the several installments, with a cessat executio. Upon such judgment if installment is not paid execution issues without a scire facias. Where judgment is entered to be discharged by such other damages as party may show upon suing scire facias, and assigning new breaches; to take judgment upon scire facias without assignment of breaches is erroneous. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 603 228 Judgment 228XIII Merger and Bar of Causes of Action and Defenses 228XIII(B) Causes of Action and Defenses Merged, Barred, or Concluded 228k600 Successive Causes of Action 228k603 k. Several Notes or Installments. Most Cited  Cases In an action on bonds conditioned for the payment of money by installments, if at the time of the rendition of the judgment installments are not all due, judgment should be rendered for the whole, but a stay of execution ordered on the installments until the time they become due. Judgment 228 k 856 228 Judgment 228XIX Suspension, Enforcement, and Revival 228k854 Proceedings to Enforce Judgment 228k856 k. Scire Facias. Most Cited Cases Where judgment was entered, in an action on a bond for the payment of money by installments for the penalty, to be discharged by the payment of the installments due and costs, and such damages as plaintiffs should thereafter recover on suing out a scire facias and assigning new breaches, it was error to take judgment on scire facias without assigning new breaches, though such original judgment might have been entered for the whole, with stay of execution on the installments until they respectively became due, in which case successive executions might issue, without a scire facias, as each installment matured. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. THE defendants here obtained judgment against the plaintiff, for eight thousand four hundred and fifty-six dollars, to be discharged by the payment of five hundred dollars, with lawful interest from the 25th of Dec. 1803, until paid; also one thousand dollars, with lawful interest from the 10th of May, 1804, and costs, and such damages as they should thereafter recover upon suing out a scire facias and assigning new breaches; the said penalty to stand as security for the payment of the other installments in the condition of the bond mentioned. The defendants sued out a scire facias upon this judgment against the plaintiff, to show cause, if any he had, why he should not answer the assignment of breaches of the condition of the obligation upon which the said judgment was founded; and upon the scire facias being returned executed, the defendants took judgment by default at the rules in the clerk's office, and a writ of inquiry was awarded. The writ of inquiry was at the next term of the Court waived, and judgment entered for eight thousand four hundred and fifty-six dollars, to be discharged by the payment of nine hundred and ninety nine dollars, with interest thereon from the 1st day of January, 1806, until paid, and costs: no declaration was filed or assignment of breaches made. *2 The propriety of the proceedings and judgment upon the scire facias, is questioned by the errors assigned. In an action of debt upon a bond conditioned for the payment of money by installments, if at the time of the rendition of the judgment the installments are not all due, judgment should be entered for the whole; but with stay of execution upon the installments, until the times when they respectively become due; upon a judgment so entered, execution might issue without suing out a scire facias upon each installment as it became due. But in the present case the judgment is not thus entered; the defendants have proceeded in the original action, as if it had been founded upon a bond conditioned for the performance of collateral covenant or agreement, and the judgment is entered as in such a case, under the act of assembly, it ought to have been; nor is there anything in the record to enable the Court ??o decide that it is otherwise, for the bond, though copied by the clerk, is not by oyer or otherwise spread upon the record, so that we can judicially notice it. In the prosecution of a scire facias upon a judgment of this sort, a new assignment of breaches is indispensably necessary: no breaches having been assigned in this case, the judgment therefore is clearly erroneous. Judgment reversed. Ky.App. 1809. Outen v. Mitchels 1 Bibb 360, 4 Ky. 360, 1809 WL 738 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
