(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 247,  17 Ky. 247 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1548 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Justices of Mason County, for the use of Drake, v. Lee. Dec. 18, 1824. *1 Judgments, Replevin Bonds, Sureties, Executors, Assets, Slaves, Devastavit. ERROR TO THE MASON CIRCUIT; ADAM BEATY, JUDGE. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 39 162 Executors and Administrators 162III Assets of Estate 162III(A) In General 162k39 k. Real Property and Estates and Interests Therein.  Most Cited Cases Land, whether devised or directed to be sold by executors for payment of debts, is never legal assets in their hands, and can be reached only through a court of equity. Executors and Administrators 162 k 263 162 Executors and Administrators 162VI Claims Against Estate 162VI(E) Priorities and Payment 162k263 k. Rights of Creditors to Priority. Most Cited  Cases The demand which the security in a replevin bond executed in discharge of one of two several judgments against co-obligors for the same debt obtains against the other by paying off the replevin bond is not a debt of record, but is a simple contract, which an executor is not bound to notice. Executors and Administrators 162 k 308 162 Executors and Administrators 162VII Distribution of Estate 162k308 k. Improper Payment in General. Most Cited Cases Slaves improperly distributed by the executor to the heirs and devisees are to be estimated, in an action by a creditor against the executor, as assets in his hands, at their increased value, not as they were when received or distributed. Executors and Administrators 162 k 401 162 Executors and Administrators 162VIII Sales and Conveyances Under Order of Court 162VIII(E) Proceeds 162k401 k. Costs and Expenses. Most Cited  Cases The expenses and compensation of the executor for managing and selling real estate, sold for the benefit of the children, must be paid out of the proceeds of the lands, and not of the personalty. Judgment 228 k 891 228 Judgment 228XX Payment, Satisfaction, Merger, and Discharge 228k891 k. Satisfaction of One or More Judgments for Same Cause of Action. Most Cited Cases Replevying a judgment against one obligor is a legal discharge, not only of the judgment for which it was executed, but of a separate judgment against another coobligor for the same debt. Wills 409 k 803 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(K) Election 409k798 Operation and Effect 409k803 k. Rights of Creditors of Testator. Most Cited  Cases Where certain lands are directed by the testator to be sold for the payment of debts, and others for the benefit of children, and the former are assigned for dower to the widow, who renounces the provisions of the will, the proceeds of the latter cannot be applied to the payment of debts. Wills 409 k 836 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(N) Debts of Testator and Incumbrances on Property 409k835 Liabilities on Devise of Realty 409k836 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Since 1800 slaves devised pass as lands to the devisee, who are liable to the creditors as the devisees of lands. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. *2 Statement of the case. In the former Supreme Court for the District of Kentucky, John May, as assignee, instituted suit against Arthur Fox and William Wood, upon a bond executed by them for a partnership debt, and the process being served on them at different terms, separate judgments were rendered against them at different terms, in the year 1786. Execution having issued on the judgment against Wood, he replevied the debt, with P. Drake as his security. In the year, 1794, Fox died, having previously made his will, of which he appointed Henry Lee and others the executors; but Lee only qualified, and in the year 1813, Drake filed his bill in chancery against Lee, as executor of Fox, to recover the amount of the replevy bond executed by Wood and himself as security, and which he alleged he had been compelled to pay, and in the year 1818, obtained a decree against Lee for $903 36, besides costs, to be levied of the estate in his hands unadministered. An execution was issued upon this decree against Lee, and returned "no assets," and thereupon this action was instituted against Lee, upon his bond as executor. The cause was tried upon the plea of plene administravit, with leave to give special matter in evidence. On the trial of the cause, it appeared, that by the will of Fox, after making provision for his wife and specific devises to his children, he gave authority to his executors to sell certain lots in the town of Washington, for the payment of his debts, and to sell all his other land, and lay out the proceeds for the education and advantage of his children; that the widow of Fox had renounced the provision made for her by her husband's will; and that the lots directed to be sold for the payment of debts, had been assigned to her for dower, and had never been sold, and were of the value of $1,500; and that he, as executor, had sold under the will, $6,700 worth of land, and had accounted to the heir and devisee therefor. Arthur Fox's will. It also appeared, that at the time of the sale of the personal estate of Fox, his slaves and personal estate were of the value of L977; that the slaves constituted L242 of this value, and were not sold; that Lee, including his reasonable expenses, had administered and paid away to creditors, the full amount of the L977, without other notice of Drake's demand, than is legally inferable from the judgment at law of 1786, or proved by his answer to Drake's bill, filed in 1813, and that of the payment made by Lee, constituting in the aggregate the sum of L>>>>>>977, there were L71 4si 7Id paid to R. Johnson, in satisfaction of a bond executed by Fox to Nicholas, in 1786, for the conveyance of land which he had not conveyed and was unable to conve?? y, L>40 paid in satisfaction of a bond given by Fox in 1786, to Llovd, for other land, which had not been complied with, and L>>>>>>32 13si 6Id, consisting of various items of expenses incurred by Lee in the management of the testator's landed estate. *3 It also appeared, that the slaves, being mostly females, had, by natural increase, multiplied in number, and had become of the value of $5,000; that they had been raised in the family of Lee, who in the year 1795, had married the widow of the testator, and had been divided among the heirs and devisees before the commencement of this suit, and that upon delivering over the slaves to the heirs and devisees, Lee had taken bonds of them to refund, & c. according to the act of assembly, &c. On this state of facts, various points of law were made on the part of Drake in the circuit court, all of which were decided against him by that court. Such of these as are deemed material to the interest of the parties, we shall now proceed to consider. (1.) The first point we shall notice, is, that Drake's demand was a debt due by record, of which Lee was bound to take notice, and that the payment by him of bond debts, was a devastavit, and rendered him responsible, to the extent he had done so, for Drake's demand. This point was predicated on the supposition, that the judgment in the supreme court against Fox, remained at his death in full force; but this supposition, we apprehend, in incorrect. The debt, it is true, had not been paid; but it had been replevied by Wood, and the replevy bond executed by him, operated as a legal discharge, not only of the original judgment against him, but of that against Fox for the same debt; so that no execution for the debt could have been rightfully issued upen either of those judgments. (1) Replevying a judgment against one obligor, is a legal discharge of not only that judgment, but also of a separate judgment rendered against another obligor for the same debt; so that no execution can issue on either judgment. The demand which the security in a replevin bond, executed in discharge of one of two several judgments against co-obligors, for the same debt, obtains against the other, by paying off the replevin bond, is not a debt of record; but is of the grade of simple contracts, and his executor is not bound to notice it. Wood, by thus replevying the debt, legally speaking. made it his own, and Drake's right to demand any part of it from Fox or his executor, depended upon his having paid off the replevy bond, and upon Fox's being jointly responsible with Wood for the original debt. These were facts susceptible of being proved or disproved by evidence dehors the record; and, of course, Drake's demand can only be considered, at law at least, as occupying the rank of a simple contract debt. The circuit court, therefore, correctly decided this point against Drake. (2.) The second point relied on for Drake which we shall notice, is, that the value of the lots directed by the will to be sold for the payment of debts, but which were assigned to the widow for her dower, ought to have been retained out of the other lands sold by Lee, as executor, and applied by him for the payment of debts. It is a sufficient answer to this point, that to have applied to one purpose the proceeds of lands directed by the will to be applied to another, would have been a plain breach of trust in the executor. *4 (2) Where certain lands are directed by the testator to be sold for the payment of debts and others for the education and advancement of his children, and the former are assigned for dower to the widow, who renounced the provisions of the will, the executor can not apply the proceeds of the latter to payment of debts; he might, perhaps, sell the reversion for this purpose. There would have been more plausibility in supposing that the executor ought to have sold the reversion in the lots decreed to be sold for the payment of debts, after the determination of dower, and that for his neglect to do so, he ought to be responsible for the value of the reversion. But, in truth, lands devised to be sold by an executor, are never considered as legal assets in his hands. Land which descend to the heirs, will be legal assets in their hands, and when they are devised, except for the payment of debts, the devise is void as against creditors, under the statute against fraudulent devises, and the devisee is thereby made responsible to the extent of the value of the lands, in a joint action against him and the heir; but, in no case are lands, in the hands of the executor, legal assets. Whether they be simply directed to be sold by him, or are devised to him to be sold for the payment of debts and legacies, they are considered not as legal, but as equitable assets, and can only be reached in his hands as executor, in a court of equity, and not in a court of law. Land, whether devised or directed to be sold by executors, for payment of debts, never is legal assets in their hands, and can, therefore, be reached in their hands, only through a court of equity. (3.) The third point which we shall notice, is, that Lee, instead of appropriating the personal assets to the expenses incurred in the management of the landed estate, should have indemnified himself for such expenses out of the proceeds of the lands sold by him, and left the personal estate for the payment of debts. (3) The expenses and compensation to the executor, for managing and selling real estate devised to be sold for education and advancement of children, ought to be paid out of the proceeds of the lands. An application of the personal estate to pay the expenses of managing the landed interest, is unjust as to creditors, and as to them, a devastavit in the executor. This seems to be not only reasonable in itself, but to be demanded by the plainest dictates of justice. Nor would there have been any thing in thus applying the proceeds of the lands sold by the executor, to the expenses incurred in the management of the landed estate, incompatible with the duties enjoined upon him by the will. On the contrary, the will itself seems to require it to be done; for the proceeds of the sale of the lands, are directed to be applied, not only to the education of the children, but to their advantage in general, and the management of the landed estate, was exclusively for their advantage. As against creditors, therefore, we think Lee had no right to apply the personal estate to defray the expenses incurred in the management of the landed interest, and thereby diminish, to the prejudice of creditors, the natural funds in his hands for the payment of debts; and, consequently, the circuit court erred in deciding this point against Drake. *5 (4.) The fourth and last point we shall notice, is, that Lee was liable as executor, for the increased value of the slaves. The circuit court not only decided against this point, but expressly told the jury, that Lee was not liable for the increased value of the slaves. (4) Slaves, prior to the act of 1800, though specially devised, passed immediately to the executor, and were assets in his hands; since that act, they pass as lands, immediately to the devisee. The law of this country now is, that slaves devised by will, pass as lands pass, immediately to the devisee, and are not assets in the hands of an executor; but this is owing to an act of the legislature of 1800, and prior to that time, and, consequently, at the death of the testator in this case, slaves were, for the payment of debts, assets in the hands of an executor; and, of course, the slaves here must be considered, with respect to the present question, as other personal estate; and that an executor or administrator is liable for the increased value of other personal estate, there can be no doubt. It is accordingly laid down, that the young of cattle or the wool of sheep, produced after the testator's death, shall be assets. Toller's Law of Executors, 166; Went. Office of Executor, 81. In estimating slaves as assets in an action against an executor, they are to be valued, not as they came to the hands of the executor, but at their increased value, in consequence of their growth and increase of numbers, up to the time of the trial, though he had, improperly, distributed them to the heirs and devisees. An executor or administrator has a right, where he has paid the debts of the testator or intestate, to retain of the assets in his hands, the value of the debts he has paid, and if before the increase in value of the slaves here, Lee had paid debts to the amount of the assets in his hands, including the slaves, he would have had a right to retain them; or if, at any time, when he had paid debts to an amount less than the whole assets in his hands, he had elected, after exhausting the other personal goods, to take and hold in his own right, a specific part of the slaves equal to the debts he had paid, he would have had a right to do so. But the evidence does not show that he had paid debts to the whole amount of assets in his hands when the debts were paid, nor that he had elected to take any part of the slaves and hold them in his own right, in satisfaction of the debts he had paid. The decision of the court, therefore, upon this point, was erroneous. An executor may, at any time, elect to take a chattel (as a slave, when they passed to him as executor) in discharge of advances he had made for the estate, and thereby make it his own--Argu. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded for a new trial to be had, not inconsistent herewith. Bibb, for plaintiffs; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Justices of Mason County v. Lee 1 T.B.Mon. 247, 17 Ky. 247, 1824 WL 1548 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
