(Cite as: 4 Litt. 265,  14 Ky. 265 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1274 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Williams and Burch v. Dorsey. Nov. 24, 1823. *1 FROM THE HARDIN CIRCUIT COURT?? THE HON. PAUL I. BOOKER SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases Where an unsound slave was sold through fraud, and paid for, rescission of the contract was unnecessary, and a court of chancery had no jurisdiction to relieve the buyer, since complete relief might be had at law. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases A court of equity has no jurisdiction over the case of a sale of an unsound slave, where the price has been paid;  there being no occasion for the rescission of the contract, and the remedy at law being adequate. B. HARDIN and SHARP for appellants; CRITTENDEN for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was a bill in chancery, filed by Dorsey against Burch and Williams, in which he alleges that he purchased of them a negro man at the price of $500, which he paid; and that the slave, at the time of his purchase, was subject to fits, and laboring under a consumption, of which they were apprised, and fraudulently concealed his unsoundness from him; that having discovered the slave to be unsound, not long after he purchased him, he offered to return to them the slave, and demanded the money he had paid to be refunded; but that they refused to receive the slave, or to repay him the money; and that he has since died with the diseases under which he labored at the time of the sale; and he prays for a rescission of the contract, and that the sum paid by him may be refunded. Where an unsound negro has been sold and paid for, a court of chancery has no jurisdiction. In such case, a rescision of the contract is unnecessary, and therefore complete relief may be had at law. Burch and Williams deny all knowledge of the unsoundness of the slave at the time; state that they believe him to have been sound, and protest against the jurisdiction of a court of equity. The circuit court, on a final hearing, decreed the contract to be rescinded, and that Burch and Williams should pay to Dorsey five hundred dollars, with interest and costs of suit; and from that decree Burch and Williams have appealed to this court. From the evidence in the cause, there is some room to doubt whether the slave was unsound at the time of the sale or not; and it is still more questionable, whether, if he were so, either Burch or Williams had any knowledge of the fact or not, and unless they had known his unsoundness at the time, they could not be guilty of a fraud in not disclosing the fact. But be that as it may, it is not material now to determine; for it is evident that a court of equity had no jurisdiction of the case. Had the price not been paid by Dorsey, there would have been some pretext for resorting to a court of equity to be relieved from the payment of the money; but as the contract was executed on both sides, the remedy which would be afforded by a court of law, is as adequate to the demands of justice, as any which can be given by a court of equity. The interposition of a court of equity in such a case, for the purpose of rescinding the contract, is unnecessary; for a contract for the sale of a personal chattel, obtained by fraud, may be treated as a nullity in a court of law, by the party injured thereby, and on restoring or offering to restore what he has received, he may mainatin his action to recover back that which he has paid, or at his election he may affirm the contract and recover damages for the fraud, without returning the thing which he may have received. In no point of view, therefore, can the aid of a court of equity be necessary to attain the ends of justice, and in such a case, a court of law ought alone to be resorted to for redress. *2 The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that the bill may be dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Williams v. Dorsey 4 Litt. 265, 14 Ky. 265, 1823 WL 1274 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
