(Cite as: 2 Bibb 210,  5 Ky. 210 (Ky.),  1810 WL 700 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Allen v. the Commonwealth. Fall Term, 1810. *1 An indictment need not express that it is found by authority of the Commonwealth. The prosecutor must be set at the foot of an indictment for trespass or misdemeanor, before it is presented to the grand jury. To set down the prosecutor after the indictment is found, will not do. West Headnotes Indictment and Information 210 k 8 210 Indictment and Information 210II Finding and Filing of Indictment or Presentment 210k8 k. Prosecutor or Informer. Most Cited Cases The name of the prosecutor must be set at the foot of an indictment for a trespass or a misdemeanor before it is presented to the grand jury, and it is not sufficient to set it there after the indictment is found. Indictment and Information 210 k 26 210 Indictment and Information 210III Formal Requisites of Indictment 210k20 Caption 210k26 k. Title of Cause or Names of Parties. Most Cited  Cases An indictment in the name of the commonwealth, and concluding against its peace and dignity, although it does not express that it is found by the authority of the commonwealth, is sufficient. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is a writ of error to a judgment for a fine on an indictment for trespass, assault and battery. Two objections are made, which we deem necessary to notice: 1. That the indictment is defective, not being found in the name and by the authority of the Commonwealth of Kentucky; and 2. That the Court below erred in not dismissing the indictment on the motion of the defendant in the Court below for want of a prosecutor, and in permitting the attorney for the Commonwealth to set down a prosecutor in due form. The first objection is predicated upon the constitutional requisition, "that all prosecutions shall be carried on in the name and by the authority of the Commonwealth of Kentucky." The indictment is in the usual form in the name of the Commonwealth, and concludes against its peace and dignity, but does not express to be found by the authority of the Commonwealth. Such an expression is, however, wholly unnecessary. At common law, prior to the revolution, prosecutions were carried on in the name and by the authority of the king, in his political capacity; but the forms of indictment show that it was unnecessary to be expressed to be found by his authority. When we threw off the regal government and adopted the republican form, it became necessary to provide that prosecutions should be carried on in the name and by the authority of the Commonwealth; but as under the regal, so under our present form of government, it is equally unnecessary that an indictment should expressly aver by what authority it is found and carried on. This indictment was, as all other indictment must be, carried on by the authority of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and not by the authority of any other power; and that is alone what the constitution requires. *2 The second objection appears to be better founded. In the case of Hutcheson v. the Commonwealth, decided fall term, 1809,FN(a) it was held that a dismission for want of a prosecutor, on the motion of the defendant, after issue joined upon the plea of not guilty, and part of the jury sworn, was correct. That was a stronger case than the present. In this, a plea of auter fois convict had been pleaded, but issue had not been joined upon it, when the motion to dismiss was made. FN(a). Vol. i, p. 355. The argument that in requiring a posecutor the object of the law was to enable the defendant to recover his costs, in case of a judgment in his favor, and that by setting down a prosecutor, as permitted by the Court below, that object would be attained, seems not to obviate the objection. The law requires that it should have been done before the indictment was presented to the grand jury-- See 1 Litt. L. K. 473-4. In a case of this kind the law must be literally and strictly pursued, and we cannot adopt other means than those which the law has appointed to attain its object, however much we may suppose them calculated for that purpose. Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded that the indictment may be dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1810. Allen v. Com. 2 Bibb 210, 5 Ky. 210, 1810 WL 700 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
