(Cite as: 3 Bibb 107,  6 Ky. 107 (Ky.),  1813 WL 619 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Parberry's heirs, etc. v. Goram, etc. Jul. 2, 1813. West Headnotes Removal of Cases 334 k 29 334 Removal of Cases 334III Citizenship or Alienage of Parties 334k28 Diversity of Citizenship of Coplaintiffs and Codefendants 334k29 k. In General. Most Cited Cases A., being entitled to a settlement and pre-emption, sold to B. B. resold to C., and authorized an agent to convey.  C. sold to different parties. After many years, it being discovered that said agent had not conveyed to C., the holder of the land and some of the intermediate purchasers filed a bill against B. and the heirs of C. to obtain conveyances.  B. and C.'s heirs moved to have the cause removed to the United States circuit court, alleging themselves to be citizens of Virginia. Complainants then amended their bill, making citizens of this state, who had made conveyances of part of said land, defendants;  whereupon the court refused to remove the cause to the federal court, and a decree was entered for complainants.  Held, that the amendment was proper, and therefore the United States court could not exercise jurisdiction. Specific Performance 358 k 106(1) 358 Specific Performance 358IV Proceedings and Relief 358k106 Parties 358k106(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases In a bill by the holders of land to compel persons through whom they derive title to convey, all those through whom complainants derive title should be made parties defendant. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 PARBERRY being entitled to a settlement and pre-emption, sold and transferred his right of pre-emption to Harviston who obtained therefor a patent from the commonwealth. Harviston afterward resold the pre-emption to Parberry, and authorized an agent to convey. Parberry then sold to several persons and made separate conveyances to each of them, some of whom have since sold and conveyed to others, and they again to others. After many years possession, it being discovered that Harviston's agent had not conveyed to Parberry, the holder of the land, together with some of the intermediate purchasers, filed a bill against Harviston and the heirs of Parberry, to obtain a conveyance from Harviston to each of those who are entitled. Harviston and Parberry's heirs failing to appear and answer, the bill was taken for confessed, and the cause set for hearing. At a subsequent term Harviston and Parberry's heirs appeared by their attorney, and filed their petition suggesting that they were citizens of the State of Virginia, and praying for a removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States, for the district of Kentucky. Pending the consideration of the application to remove the cause, the complainants filed an amendment to their bill, making the heirs of some of the other intermediate purchasers, who were not complainants, defendants, and praying a decree over against them for an indemnity in case a conveyance could not be obtained from Harviston, for such portions of the land as they had sold. These defendants being citizens of this State, the Court refused the application to remove the cause to the Federal Court. Harviston and Parberry still failing to answer, and the other defendants having answered and admitted the truth of the complainants' bill, the cause came on for a final hearing, and the Court decreed that Harviston should convey with warranty from him and his heirs to those respectively entitled, and that Parberry's heirs and the other defendants should be barred and precluded from setting up any claim thereto. Persons claiming several rights under distinct and independent contracts, cannot join in a bill it chancery. Proceedings against non-resident heirs whose names are unknown irregular. Applications to remove a cause commenced in a Circuit Court to the Court of the U. States, can be sustained only where none of the plaintiff's have citizenship in the same State with any one of the defendants. Amendments, to add proper parties, are never too late while the Court has control over the case. The claim for surplus land within the bounds of deeds must be founded upon an equity arising from circumstances dehors the deeds. All the intermediate purchasers of land, in a bill filed to obtain conveyances, must be made parties. To this decree a writ of error was sued out in the names of Harviston and Parberry's heirs, but Harviston refusing to prosecute the writ of error, a judgment of severance was awarded, and Parberry's heirs allowed to proceed alone, and Harviston has since by his agent come into Court and acknowledged a release of errors. *2 In this situation the cause has come on for a hearing in this Court. Various objections are taken to the proceedings and decree in this case. We shall consider such of them as are deemed material and most relied on?? 1. It is contended that the complainants, claiming distinct parcels of land under different contracts, could not join in a bill to obtain a conveyance therefor. In general, it is certainly true that several persons, having distinct and independent rights, cannot join in the same suit to assert their rights; and had Parberry's heirs been the only persons against whom relief in this instance was sought, the rule would have applied with all its force in the present case. But relief is primarily and principally sought against Harviston, whose contract with Parberry forms a common medium through which the rights of all the complainants are derived, and upon which they all depend. The conveyances from Parberry, though they will operate to rebut any claim set up by him or his heirs at law, have not in fact transferred the legal title; for the legal title not being in him, he could not transfer it. The deeds of conveyance, however operate as an assignment of Parberry's equity in the contract he had made with Harviston; but he ought not to be permitted by an assignment in equity, of distinct parcels to different persons, to subject Harviston to many suits upon one entire contract. Of such a course of procedure Harviston might have justly complained. It is evident that by partial assignments of a contract assignable at law, the party bound by such contract cannot be made liable to as many suits at law as there may be partial assignments: and the reason against such a mode of proceeding is much more cogent in a Court of Equity, one ground of whose jurisdiction is bottomed upon the principle of preventing multiplicity of suits and circuity of action. 2. It is objected that the proceedings against Parberry's heirs, without naming them, is erroneous. It is sufficient on this point to observe, that the bill alleges that their names were unknown; and the act of assembly of 1802, as was decided at this term in the case of  Johnson and Henderson's heirs v. Rankin, (6 Ky. 86) justifies in such a case the mode of proceeding. But the heirs of Parberry having in this case actually entered their appearance, if the proceedings had in this respect been otherwise defective, they are, we apprehend, thereby cured. 3. It is objected that the Court erred in not sustaining the application to remove the cause to the Circuit Court for the United States. According to the doctrine established by the repeated decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States, it is only where all the persons on one side are citizens of States different from those on the other side, that the Federal Court have jurisdiction. In this case, by the amendment to the bill, citizens of this State were made defendants; and consequently, if that amendment were proper, the Court of the United States could not have exercised jurisdiction over the case. That the amendment was proper, we have no doubt, whether regard be had to the time, manner or matter of the amendment. With respect to the time, wherever persons who ought to have been made parties, are not sued, the bill may be amended at any time, even after the cause is set for hearing, so as to make such persons parties. Nay it has been uniformly decided by this Court, where a final decree has been given for the complainant, and the decree reversed for want of proper parties, that the bill, after the cause was remanded, might be amended by adding such parties. With respect to the manner, it was done without any application to the Court; but as the answers of the defendants were not filed, the act of assembly of 1802,  (3 Litt. 20) authorized the amendment without application to, or leave given by the Court for that purpose. And as to the matter of the amendment, it was clearly proper: for according to the well-settled doctrine of this Court, as well as of the English authorities, whenever the claim of the complainants is of an equitable nature, and derived through a contract made with another, that other should be made a party to a bill brought to assert that right. *3 4. It is objected that the Court erred in decreeing to several of the complainants more land than the quantity specified in their deeds from Parberry to them, or those under whom they claim. It does not appear that the decree has given to the complainants other land than that contained in the deeds of conveyance from Parberry; and although there is a surplus within the boundaries of those deeds, Parberry or his heirs can have no claim at law to such surplus: for, as was before suggested, the deeds will always rebut such claim. Their claim, therefore, (if any they have), to the surplus, or a compensation therefor, must be founded upon an equity arising from circumstances dehors the deeds; and if they assert at any time such equity, it will be competent for the complainants to repel it by proof of circumstances in like manner dehors the deeds. But unless Parberry's heirs had asserted their claim, it could not be necessary for the complainants to adduce proof for the purpose of destroying it. 5. It is objected that all the intermediate purchasers were not made parties. It appears that Jonathan Long and George Bruner, through whom some of the complainants derive their right, are not made parties, either complainants or defendants. Unless they had been made parties they cannot be bound by the decree, nor prevented from denying that they have sold, and asserting their claim hereafter. It was necessary, therefore, to quiet their claims and put an end to litigation with respect to the subject matter of controversy, that they should have been made parties; and on this ground the decree is erroneous. Decree reversed, and cause remanded that the complainants may amend, etc. Ky.App. 1813. Parberry's Heirs v. Goram 3 Bibb 107, 6 Ky. 107, 1813 WL 619 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
