(Cite as: 5 Litt. 56,  15 Ky. 56 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1374 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Williams v. Clay. Apr. 12, 1824. *1 FROM THE MADISON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 400 30 Appeal and Error 30VII Transfer of Cause 30VII(D) Writ of Error, Citation, or Notice 30k398 Writ of Error 30k400 k. Form and Requisites. Most Cited  Cases Errors of law and fact should not be joined in the same writ. TURNER for plaintiff; HAGGIN for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was a writ of error coram vobis with supersedeas, brought by Williams against Clay, in the Madison circuit court, to quash an execution of fieri facias, issued upon a judgment obtained by the latter against the former. The errors assigned in the petition for a supersedeas, were the following, in substance: A writ of error coram vobis to quash a faulty execution. 1st. That the execution issued illegally, there being no judgment in force to warrant it. Errors in fact and in law can not be assigned in the same writ. 2d. That there had previously issued upon the same judgment, a ca. sa. which was duly executed on the plaintiff in error, and he, in the year 1815, took the oath prescribed by law for insolvent debtors, and was discharged, whereby the operation of said judgment, and the right to issue execution thereon, ceased, until revived by scire facias, which has not been done. No other errors than those alleged in the petition, can be assigned; nor can any of those be stricken out. 3d. That the judgment was dead, no execution having issued thereon for five years previously. 4th. That no execution ought to have issued upon said judgment, because a ca. sa. had formerly issued upon said judgment, and was duly executed, and the plaintiff in error, in virtue thereof, committed to the jail of Madison county, and has never been discharged in any way from said confinement, by due course of law. A judgment for damages, on the affirmance, is proper. At the time to which the writ of error coram vobis was returnable, the defendant in error filed a demurrer to the errors assigned, and without any joinder by the plaintiff, the demurrer was argued, and the court took time for several days to consider, and then rendered judgment sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the writ of error with costs and damages. After the judgment had been rendered, the plaintiff in error asked leave to assign errors, alleging that the paper demurred to was not an assignment of error; but the court refused the leave. The plaintiff then moved for leave to amend his assignment of errors; but the court overruled his motion, and he lastly moved the court to permit him to strike out all his errors, except the first, which the court refused; and to all these opinions of the court he excepted, and has brought the case to this court by writ of error with supersedeas. The first question is, whether the circuit cour erred in sustaining the demurrer. In considering this question, we shall assume the errors alleged in the petition for a supersedeas, to be the plaintiff's assignment of errors, and we shall do this, because it is believed to be the general practice in writs of error coram vobis, to assign no other errors than those alleged in the petition for a supersedeas, and because the plaintiff in error in this case had obtained his writ of error with supersedeas upon those errors; had assigned no others; had permitted the defendant to demur to them; and had argued the demurrer, and awaited the decision of the court against him, before he disclaimed them. *2 Assuming the errors alleged in the petition to be the plaintiff's assignment of errors, we can have no hesitation in saying that the circuit court was correct in sustaining the demurrer. The first and third errors assigned, are obviously matters of law, and to be tried by the record; for whether, as is asserted by the first error, there is no judgment in force to warrant the execution, or, as is asserted by the third error, the judgment is dead, no execution having issued thereon for five years previously, are clearly questions of law, which must be decided upon the record, and which can admit of no evidence aliunde. But the second and fourth errors are evidently errors of fact; for whether, as the second alleges, the plaintiff in error, after being taken on a ca. sa. was discharged as an insolvent debtor, or, as is alleged by the fourth error, he was never discharged by due course of law, are questions which do not depend upon the record, but are matters in pais, and may be proved by evidence dehors the record. In the case of  Turner v. Fendal, 1 Cranch 132, the supreme court of the United States held, that the proceedings before magistrates, in cases of insolvent debtors, under the laws of Virginia, which are similar to the laws of this state, were not only matters in pais, but that they might by proved by parol testimony. This was perhaps going a little too far; for the law expressly requires an order from the magistrates, before the officer having the custody of the debtor can discharge him, and of course, on the trial of an issue involving the question whether such an order had been given, or not, the production of the order, unless the inability to produce it was sufficiently shown, would be necessary, and parol evidence of its contents could not be admitted. But the order is not matter of record. It is not even required by law to be filed with the papers. It is, in fact, addressed to the officer having the custody of the debtor, and is intended to be his warrant for the discharge of the debtor, and may be kept by him for his own justification. If, then, the errors assigned are errors of fact, as well as of law, it follows that the demurrer was properly sustained; for it is a well settled rule, that errors of fact and of law can not be assigned together; for these are distinct things, and require different modes of trial, and in case of reversal, a different judgment is entered. 2 Tidd's Prac. 1108. The next question to be noticed, grows out of the refusal of the circuit court to permit the plaintiff in error to assign errors, to amend his assignment of errors, or to strike out all but the first error assigned. With respect to the refusal of the court to permit the plaintiff to assign errors, on the ground that there was no assignment of errors, sufficient has already been said, to show that the decision of the court was correct, and that the ground assumed by the plaintiff was untenable; and with respect to the refusal of the court to permit the plaintiff to amend, or to strike out all but the first error assigned, the case of Clark and Gaines v.  Bell, 2 Litt. Rep. 162, is conclusive, to show that this court can not interfere to correct the decision of the inferior court. *3 The only other point made by the assignment of errors in this court, which remains to be noticed, calls in question the propriety of the judgment for ten per cent. damages. The sixth section of the act concerning writs of error coram vobis, 2 Dig. L. K. 1258, has been decided by this court to embrace cases of this sort, and demonstrates the propriety of the judgment for ten per cent. damages in this case. Judgment affirmed with costs and damages upon the damages. Ky.App. 1824. Williams v. Clay 5 Litt. 56, 15 Ky. 56, 1824 WL 1374 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
