(Cite as: 1 A.K.Marsh. 3,  8 Ky. 3 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1122 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. John Shannon v. Tho. Kinny et al. Oct. 13, 1817. *1 ON AN APPEAL FROM A JUDGMENT OF THE WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Adverse Possession 20 k 43(1) 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(E) Duration and Continuity of Possession 20k43 Tacking Successive Possessions 20k43(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Possession, to toll a plaintiff's right of entry, need not continue the whole time in one person or under the same title. If there have been 20 years' uninterrupted adverse possession, by one or many persons, or under one or more titles, it is sufficient. Evidence 157 k 99 157 Evidence 157IV Admissibility in General 157IV(A) Facts in Issue and Relevant to Issues 157k99 k. Relevancy in General. Most Cited  Cases Evidence, to be excluded from the jury because of irrelevancy, should be clearly irrelevant. CHIEF JUSTICE BOYLE DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT: This was an action of ejectment. On the trial, after the plaintiff had exhibited the patent of the commonwealth to William Shannon for the land in controversy, and had produced evidence conducing to prove that William Shannon, the patentee, was the son of William Shannon, senior; that the plaintiff, John Shannon, was the eldest brother of the patentee; that the patentee was killed by the Indians in 1782; that William Shannon, his father, died in a year or two thereafter, leaving John Shannon, the plaintiff, his eldest son; and after it had also appeared in evidence, that Hugh Shannon, a younger brother, had, in the year 1784, settled upon the land in controversy, claiming it as his own, and had used and sold part thereof; that for 20 years or upwards, John Shannon had been in habits of intimacy with his brother Hugh Shannon, and was fully apprised of his claiming and selling said land; the attorney for the defendant asked a witness whether said Hugh Shannon had not latterly become insolvent, avowing his object to be to prove that and other circumstances, a collusive destruction of a writing evidencing a transfer of said land, betwixt the plaintiff and Hugh Shannon; to the asking and answering of which question, the plaintiff objected; but the court overruled the objection, and instructed the witness to answer the question, to which the plaintiff excepted. Whether the court below erred in their decision of this point, is the first question which is necessary to be determined. The objection to the evidence is grounded merely upon its supposed irrelevancy. There is no question that in strict propriety the parties should confine their evidence to the matters in issue, and that proof wholly foreign to such matters, is inadmissible; but to sustain an objection to evidence merely on the ground that it is irrelevant, it ought to appear to be so beyond all doubt, for it is a settled rule in all cases where the competency of evidence is doubtful, to admit it to go to the jury, leaving them to determine as to the weight to which it shall be entitled, and this rule ought to apply with peculiar force to a case like the present, where the objection to the evidence is founded solely on its irrelevancy. When tested by this rule, we apprehend the evidence admitted by the court below, will not be found to be so clearly irrelevant as to justify its exclusion.FNa The lapse of time, together with the accompanying circumstances, certainly affords a ground upon which the jury might presume a transfer in writing to have been executed either by the patentee or the plaintiff, to Hugh Shannon, and to strengthen this presumption, it could not be improper to account for the non-production of such a transfer. Circumstances, therefore, tending to create a presumption, that it had been destroyed by the collusion of Hugh Shannon, would, no doubt, be admissible, and as circumstances having that tendency, would, in our apprehension, be more readily credited, by a jury who were informed that he had become insolvent, we can not say that the proof of his insolvency was so utterly irrelevant as to justify its exclusion. FNa. In an action brought against a person, charging him with fraud, from mere circumstances, evidence of general character is relevant and admissible--vide Ruan v. Perry, 3d Caine's Reports, 120. In an action for slander, the pl'th may give his own standing in society in evidence to enhance the damages, and the def't may avail himself of evidence of the same kind to mitigate them; in both cases, the evidence is relevant to the general issue--3d Mass. Reports, pa 546, Larned v. Buffington. *2 Evidence to be excluded from the jury because of irrelevancy, should clearly be irrelevant to the issue. Circumstances from whence the jury may presume a fact material to the issue, should be left to them. The only other question presented by the case is, whether the statute of limitation was a bar to the plaintiff's recovery. It appears that there was a continual adverse possession for more than twenty years, but that Hugh Shannon, who first took the possession of the land in controversy before he had remained in possession twenty years, surrendered the possession to the defendants or those under whom they held, in pursuance of a decree entered upon an award giving them the land in virtue of an adverse claim, and that they had not had the land in possession 20 years prior to the commencement of this suit. This circumstance, it is urged on the part of the plaintiff, prevents the statute from operating as a bar to his recovery. But we can not perceive any principle upon which it can have such an effect. According to the literal import of the statute, the plaintiff could only enter upon the land within twenty years after his right of entry accrued, and, consequently, an adverse possession for that length of time, will toll his right. Nor can it, in the reason and nature of the thing, produce any difference, whether the possession be held uniformly under one title or at different times under different titles, provided the claim of title be always adverse to that of the plaintiff, nor whether the possession be held by the same or a succession of individuals, provided the possession be a continued and uninterruped one.  FNb FNb. The confession of "lease, entry and ouster," is confined to the confession of such entry as will give a right to the action, and does not extend to such entry as will regain and revest possession.--1st Harris & M'Henry's Rep. 273, Holt's Lessee v. Smith. Adverse possession to be availing, must be continued open and visible.--1 Mass. Rep., 483. A tenant entering under a lease, holding over is not an adverse possession.--1 Caine's Term Rep. 394. It is presumed, a tenant holding over more than two years after the expiration of his lease, is yet liable to a warrant of forcible detainor.-- Kent. Rep. To make a claim of adverse possession availing, it must be adverse at the commencement and continue so uninterruptedly the necessary length of time.--Walker v. Ogden, 1 Johnston's Rep. 156. If a person enters under an agreement to purchase and then sells to another, the possession of that other is not hostile.--Griswold v. Bard, 4 Johnston's Rep. 230. If the original possession is hostile, verbal overtures to purchase an overhanging title, does not render the possession amicable to that title.-- Vide post, Daniel v. Ellis, pa.--vide also the case of Gay and Moffit, where the agreement to hold under Moffit was of a description, to be decree under the stat. of frauds. An elder outstanding title, where the right of entry is tolled, can not be set up by a def't in ejectment.--Klock's Lessee v. Hudson, 3d Johnston, 376. An elder outstanding title in a stranger, can not be set up by a defendant, where there has been 20 years adverse uninterrupted possession.--Duncan's Lessee v. Harden, 4th Johnston's Rep. 202. Vide post, Colston v. M'Vay.--An elder outstanding title, where the entry is not tolled, is a good defence in an ejectment, to show the pltf has no right of entry. *3 Possession to toll a plt's right of entry need not continue the whole time in one person or be held under the same title for the whole time, if there has been 20 years uninterrupted adverse possession, by one or many persons, under one or more titles, it is sufficient. Judgment must be affirmed, with costs. Bibb and Hardin, for appellant, Pope, for appellee. Ky.App. 1817. Shannon v. Kinny 1 A.K.Marsh. 3, 8 Ky. 3, 1817 WL 1122 (Ky.), 10 Am.Dec. 705 END OF DOCUMENT
