(Cite as: 4 Bibb 265,  7 Ky. 265 (Ky.),  1815 WL 765 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Brashear and Barr v. Stothard and Starkey. Dec. 6, 1815. *1 That the plaintiffs did not sue by their proper names, is matter of fact, and cannot be questioned in this Court. A jailer is authorized to take a prison bounds bond and to assign it to the creditor. In declaring on the bond thus assigned, to set the assignment forth by way of recital, is sufficient. West Headnotes Names 269 k 2 269 Names 269k1 Requisites and Sufficiency 269k2 k. In General. Most Cited Cases The law does not require one to have more than one name, and suit against a person by a single name may be sustained. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of debt upon a prison bounds bond taken to the jailer and assigned by him to the plaintiffs. The defendants pleaded that they had not broken the condition, and issue being thereupon joined, a verdict and judgment were given against the defendants; from which they have appealed to this Court. The points made by the assignment of error are, in substance--1st, That the plaintiffs are not duly named in any part of the record. 2d, The jailer is not authorized by law to assign such a bond as that declared on. 3d, The assignment of the bond is not positively averred, as it should be, but by way of recital only. 1. The first point is evidently not available in this Court. The plaintiffs sue by the names of Stothard and Starkey, and whether both or either of them have any other name, is not matter of law but matter of fact; for we know of no law which requires a person to have two names, and if he has but one he may certainly sue by that. 2. As to the second point, it is sufficient to remark that by the 15th section of the "act to amend the law of proceedings in civil cases," passed the 4th of February, 1815, which is prior to the date of the bond in this case, the jailer is expressly authorized to take a prison's bounds bond, and to assign it to the creditor at whose suit the prisoner is in custody--4 Litt. 397. 3. The third point is clearly not sustainable. It is well settled, that in a declaration it is sufficient to allege a deed or other instrument by recital; and though in a plea it is otherwise, yet it would be aided by verdict or on a general demurrer.--Com. Dig. Plead. E 3--1 Sanders 274, note 1. Judgment affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1815. Brashear v. Stothard 4 Bibb 265, 7 Ky. 265, 1815 WL 765 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
