(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 81,  19 Ky. 81 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1882 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Churchill v. Rogers. Nov. 18, 1825. *1 Evidence. Statute of Frauds and Perjuries. APPEAL FROM THE HARDIN CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 158(3) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185XII Evidence 185k158 In General 185k158(3) k. Admissibility of Evidence to Aid Memorandum.  Most Cited Cases An alleged mistake in a deed cannot be corrected by parol evidence, where the facts are denied in the answer. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was a bill in chancery, filed by Churchill against Rogers, to have an alleged mistake in a deed of conveyance of land from the latter to the former, corrected, so as to extend the lines, and thereby include more and other land than is included in the deed. Rogers denies, in his answer, that there was any mistake in drawing the deed, or that he had sold to Churchill the land which he contends ought to have been included in the deed. The circuit court, on a final hearing, dismissed the bill, and, we have no doubt, correctly. The deed itself is the only written evidence, so far as the record shows, that ever existed between the parties in relation to the sale and conveyance of the land, and it is not pretended that it does not accurately describe the land, and contain the quantity of acres purported to be conveyed by it. There is, indeed, evidence in the cause conducing to prove a verbal agreement on the part of Rogers, that the lines might be extended so as to include the land which is now contended by Churchill ought to have been conveyed. But to sustain the bill and grant Churchill relief on such agreement, would be directly contrary to the letter, as well as the spirit, of the statute against frauds and perjuries. Bill can not be maintained to correct a mistake in a deed, so as to make it conform to the parol, the only other contract, and include more land, if the defendant deny in his answer. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Wickliffe for appellant; Chapeze for appellee. Ky.App. 1825. Churchill v. Rogers 3 T.B.Mon. 81, 19 Ky. 81, 1825 WL 1882 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
