(Cite as: 4 Bibb 473,  7 Ky. 473 (Ky.),  1816 WL 840 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Machir v. M'Dowell. Dec. 9, 1816. *1 A written agreement cannot be added to or varied by parol evidence. Parol evidence that the seller of land agreed at the sale to extinguish an interfering claim inadmissible to vary the contract. A Court of Equity may set aside a written agreement for fraud or mistake. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 441(8) 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(C) Separate or Subsequent Oral Agreement 157k440 Prior and Contemporaneous Collateral Agreements 157k441 In  General 157k441(8) k. Sale or Exchange of Real Property  and Deeds. Most Cited Cases Parol evidence that the vendor agreed at the sale to extinguish an interfering claim is not admissible. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. ON the 30th of January, 1798, Machir and M'Dowell entered into a written contract, whereby the former agreed to sell to the latter a tract of land estimated to contain 500 acres, and to convey the same by a deed, with a covenant to refund at the rate of four dollars per acre for so much as might be lost by a better claim; and M'Dowell on his part covenanted to pay therefor $2000, by installments. Some of these installments becoming due, and not being paid, Machir brought suit at law and recovered judgments therefor. To enjoin which M'Dowell filed his bill in chancery, in substance alleging as the principal ground for relief, that it was a part of the contract that Machir should extinguish a claim held by Philip Buckner, interfering with the most valuable part of the land; that this stipulation having been omitted in the written agreement, he refused to sign it until Machir assured him the omission should make no difference, as he could and would quiet Buckner's claim; that confiding in this assurance, he signed the contract: but that Machir had not only failed or refused to quiet Buckner's claim, but had relinquished to him his title to 100 acres of the interference; and that he had purchased of Buckner the 100 acres, at the price of $1000; for which he prays a credit may be allowed him on the judgments at law. Machir, by his answer, denies that he was bound by the agreement to extinguish Buckner's claim, or that he entered into any stipulation to be farther or otherwise answerable than according to the terms of the written agreement. He admits that after M'Dowell had purchased of Buckner the 100 acres, to be paid for upon condition Buckner's title should prove to be the better one, he entered into a contract with Buckner, whereby he engaged to release his right to Buckner for the 100 acres, in consideration that Buckner would relinquish his claim to the balance of the interference; but alleges that by the same contract he had secured to M'Dowell the right to contest the validity of the two claims to the 100 acres, and exhibits a written contract to that effect. He furthermore alleges that he has given to M'Dowell a credit upon the judgment at law for the 100 acres, at the rate of $4 per acre. *2 On a final hearing, the Court below being of opinion that M'Dowell was entitled to a credit for the $1000 he had agreed to give Buckner for the 100 acres of land, and the other credits admitted by Machir, being more than the amount of the judgments at law, decreed a perpetual injunction. To which decree, Machir prosecutes this writ of error. It is not material for the Court to decide how far the parol evidence in this case, were it admissible, would be sufficient in opposition to the denial of the answer, to prove that it was a part of the agreement between the parties, that Machir should extinguish Buckner's claim: for as the statute against frauds and perjuries requires that every agreement respecting lands should be in writing, it plainly follows that the written agreement cannot be added to or varied by such evidence. Where a bill is brought for the purpose of setting aside a written agreement, which through fraud or mistake does not conform to the true intention of the parties, parol evidence is no doubt admissible: for though the statute inhibits an action from being brought to enforce an agreement not in writing, it does not deny to a party the right to set aside a written agreement for fraud or mistake. But the bill in this case is evidently not framed for the purpose of obtaining a rescission of the written contract, but to add to its terms by parol evidence, and to enforce it according to those terms. It appears indeed that M'Dowell has transferred the contract with Machir to a third person by an assignment, in which he makes himself responsible to Machir for the price. Without therefore having his assignee before the Court, and obtaining his consent, had the bill been framed for the purpose, the contract could not be set aside. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, that a decree may be entered dissolving the injunction for the residue of the judgments at law, after allowing M'Dowell credits for the payment he has made, and the $400 admitted by Machir for the 100 acres purchased by M'Dowell from Buckner. Ky.App. 1816. Machir v. McDowell 4 Bibb 473, 7 Ky. 473, 1816 WL 840 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
