(Cite as: 4 Bibb 268,  7 Ky. 268 (Ky.),  1815 WL 767 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Beasley v. Sims. Dec. 6, 1815. *1 If a Circuit C't improperly assumes jurisdiction of a case not cognizable in any Court of the State an appeal does not lie to the C't of Appeals. An appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court for a penalty imposed by act of congress for retailing of spirituous liquors without license, dismissed because the Court of Appeals had not jurisdiction. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 20 30 Appeal and Error 30II Nature and Grounds of Appellate Jurisdiction 30k20 k. Jurisdiction of Lower Court. Most Cited Cases If the court assume jurisdiction of a case not cognizable by any court of the state, the court of appeals has no jurisdiction to correct the judgment. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of debt brought by Sims against Beasley in the Garrard Circuit Court, for the penalty imposed by act of congress for retailing spirits without license. The cause was submitted to arbitrators, who having returned an award against Beasley, a judgment was thereupon entered, and he has appealed to this Court. The principal objection relied on by the assignment of error, is that the Court below had not jurisdiction of the case. If this objection be correct, it must be either because the act of congress is incompetent to give to the State Courts jurisdiction, or because the case is not within the provision of the act giving to the State Courts jurisdiction. In either point of view the objection inevitably tends to defeat its own purpose: for if none of the inferior Courts of the State have jurisdiction of the case, then it follows that this Court has not appellate jurisdiction; for the act establishing the Court of Appeals gives to this Court jurisdiction of those cases only, of which the inferior Courts of this Commonwealth have cognizance. But if the act of congress was competent to give to the State Courts jurisdiction, and this case was within the provisions of the act, still we should be of opinion that this Court had not appellate jurisdiction; because it is provided by an act of congress which passed prior to the rendition of the judgment in this case, that the judgment of the State Courts, in such cases, may be re-examined in the Circuit Court of the United States, and shall not be delayed or suspended by any State regulations. Now as the appeal must operate as a delay or suspension of the judgment, it is clearly prohibited by this provision; and if congress is competent to give to the State Courts jurisdiction, it must be competent to provide what State Courts shall have the jurisdiction, and under what conditions and restrictions it shall be exercised. So that in any light in which the case can be considered, it is apparent that this Court has not appellate jurisdiction over it. The appeal must, therefore, be dismissed. Ky.App. 1815. Beasley v. Sims 4 Bibb 268, 7 Ky. 268, 1815 WL 767 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
