(Cite as: 4 Bibb 205,  7 Ky. 205 (Ky.),  1815 WL 725 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Luckett v. Moore. Oct. 14, 1815. *1 A obligated himself to pay B a sum of money whenever B should be compelled to pay a note given by B to C. Resolved, that payment compelled by suit, on the note to C, was not a necessary prerequisite to entitle B to action against A. But actual payment to C was necessary, and a liability from B to C was not sufficient. West Headnotes Bonds 58 k 114 58 Bonds 58V Actions 58k114 k. Right of Action. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k117) Where A. obligated himself to pay B. a sum of money whenever B. should be compelled to pay a note given by B. to C., payment compelled by suit on the note to C. was not a necessary requisite to entitle B. to recover against A., but actual payment to C. was necessary. Contracts 95 k 278(1) 95 Contracts 95V Performance or Breach 95k278 Performance of Conditions 95k278(1) k. Necessity of Performance. Most Cited  Cases One is not liable on an agreement to pay another a certain sum whenever he should be compelled to pay a note until after such other has paid the note. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action upon an obligation whereby the defendant bound himself to pay to the plaintiff a sum of money therein specified, whenever the plaintiff should be compelled to pay a note given by her to Thomas Crawford. The defendant by his plea alleged that the plaintiff had not been compelled to pay the note given by her to Thomas Crawford, and issue was thereupon joined to the country. On the trial it was proved that the note from the plaintiff to Crawford had become due, but that it had not been in fact paid. The defendant then moved the Court to instruct the jury to find as in case of a nonsuit; but the Court refused to give the instruction, and the defendant excepted. According to the plain and unambiguous import of the language used in the obligation upon which the suit is brought, it is evident that the action could not have accrued to the plaintiff until the payment of the note given by her to Crawford. To entitle her to an action upon the obligation given by the defendant, it was not indeed, as we apprehend, necessary that she should have been coerced to make payment of her note by legal process. If she had made payment from a sense of moral duty, from her legal obligation to do so, though without suit, she might at least figuratively, if not literally, be said to have been compelled to pay; but in no sense of the term can she be said to have been compelled to do that which in fact she had not done. We are of opinion, therefore, that the Court below erred in not instructing the jury as required by the defendant. Judgment reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings to be had not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Luckett v. Moore 4 Bibb 205, 7 Ky. 205, 1815 WL 725 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
