(Cite as: 4 Bibb 402,  7 Ky. 402 (Ky.),  1816 WL 792 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Payne, etc. v. Logan's administrator. Oct. 11, 1816. *1 Lands lying out of this State devised, do not render the devisee liable to the debts of his testator in action at law in this State. That which would not be assets in the hands of the heir, cannot be subject to the payment of debts in the hands of the devisee; and lands lying out of this State would not render the heir liable here. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 847(1) 409 Wills 409VII Rights and Liabilities of Devisees and Legatees 409VII(N) Debts of Testator and Incumbrances on Property 409k847 Actions Against Devisees, Legatees, or Purchasers 409k847(1) k. Nature and Form of Remedy and Jurisdiction.  Most Cited Cases A devise of land lying out of the state of Kentucky does not render the devisee liable to the debts of his testator in an action at law in the state. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THE main question in this case, and indeed the only one which deserves investigation, is whether a person having land lying out of this State devised to him, is liable at law to the debts of his testator? We have no hesitation in deciding this question in the negative. The law making fraudulent devises void, and rendering the devisee liable to an action upon the contract of his testator, was only intended to subject specifically the land in the hands of the devisee to the debts of the testator; nor can he be made further or otherwise responsible but by his own default; and most unquestionably lands not lying within this Commonwealth cannot be made subject to the payment of debt in this country. Such lands would not be assets in the hands of the heir (1 Com. Dig. 563), and that which would not be assets in the hands of the heir, cannot be subject to the payment of debts in the hands of the devisee; for the latter is made liable only to the same extent as the former. It would indeed be absurd to suppose that the legislature of this State had intended to make lands lying out of the State liable to the payment of debts. They certainly possess no authority for that purpose; for lands being in their nature local, must be exclusively the subject of the legislative authority of the country where the lands lie. The judgment against Edward Payne being predicated upon a different view of the law upon this point, is clearly erroneous; and as the judgment is entered jointly against him and the other defendants, the whole judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded, that the parties may have leave, if they should apply therefor, to amend their pleadings so as to bring the question of fact whether Edward Payne had anything by devise in this country or not before the jury, and that other proceedings may be had not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. It is, therefore, considered by the Court that the judgment aforesaid be reversed, and that the cause be remanded for new proceedings to be had in conformity to the foregoing opinion; and it is further considered that the plaintiffs in error, and the appellants, recover of the defendants their costs, to be levied, etc. Ky.App. 1816. Payne v. Logan's Adm'r 4 Bibb 402, 7 Ky. 402, 1816 WL 792 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
