(Cite as: 3 Bibb 46,  6 Ky. 46 (Ky.),  1813 WL 596 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Coun v. Delany. May 24, 1813. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 65(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400II Construction and Operation of Contract 400k60 Subject-Matter 400k65 Quantity or Extent of Land 400k65(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases The words "more or less," in a conveyance, do not preclude a court of equity from an inquiry into a fraud which may have been committed by either vendor or vendee, and relieving against the fraud, if any has been committed. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 113 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k106 Right to Rescind 400k113 k. Defect in Quantity or Quality of Land. Most  Cited Cases Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 176 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(D) Payment of Purchase Money 400k173 Abatement or Deductions 400k176 k. Deficiency in Quantity of Land. Most Cited  Cases Where a tract of land sold, represented to contain 610 acres, falls short 67 acres, the contract will not be rescinded;  but the vendor will be ordered to pay the average price per acre for the deficiency. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 123 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k123 k. Actions for Rescission. Most Cited  Cases Where no defect of title to land is alleged in a bill in equity, charging the vendor with fraud, but defect in quantity, the vendor must produce the title held by him at the time of the sale, in order that the court may ascertain the quantity. Deeds 120 k 70(8) 120 Deeds 120I Requisites and Validity 120I(E) Validity 120k70 Fraud and Misrepresentation 120k70(8) k. Subject-Matter of Misrepresentations. Most  Cited Cases While the words, "more or less," in a deed, when referring to the number of acres, mean that the parties are to run the risk of gain or loss, they do not bar an inquiry into a fraud committed by the seller in falsely representing the number of acres. Opinion of the Court by Judge OWSLEY. Chief Justice BOYLE did not sit in this cause. *1 THE appellee being possessed of a tract of land, on the 2d day of February, 1803, sold the same to the appellant for the price of four thousand dollars, and gave an obligation, conditioned to convey to the appellant by deed of general warranty, the tract of land whereon the appellee then lived, containing 610 acres on the south side of Kentucky river and 40 acres on the north side, and to include the ferry, be the same more or less. That sometime thereafter the appellant, as he alleges, conceiving himself imposed on in the sale and purchase of the land aforesaid, exhibited his bill in chancery in the Mercer Circuit Court for relief, in which he charges that the appellant, previous to and at the time of the sale aforesaid, fraudulently represented and assured the appellee that the tract whereon he then lived, and which he was then selling, contained at least 610 acres on the south side of the Kentucky, and 40 acres on the north; that relying on these representations, and believing the tract contained 610 acres, he made the purchase, and received an obligation for a conveyance; that he has made considerable payments therefor, and that there are other adversary claims to the 40 acres on the north side of the river; and that under a continued state of misrepresentation and fraud, the appellee acknowledged a deed for a certain boundary of land containing by estimation 610 acres, more or less. He further charges that the tract of land did contain but 543 acres, and prays the contract to be canceled, etc., and for general relief. The appellee by his answer admits the sale, but denies fraud. On a final hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the appellant's bill, from which decree he has prosecuted this appeal. In determining the cause we will first consider whether the appellee, whilst selling of the land, was guilty of such misrepresentation and fraud for which relief should be extended to the appellant, and if so, whether the subsequent acknowledgment of the deed so changed the case as to preclude the interposition of a Court of Equity? That the most plain and obvious meaning of the term more or less, in an obligation for a conveyance of land, is that the parties are to run the risk of gain or loss, as there may be an excess or a deficiency in the estimated quantity, is certainly true, as has been heretofore determined by this CourtFN(a). But it is conceived that rule does not preclude an inquiry into a fraud which may have been committed by either party to the contract, and upon the establishment of the fraud relieve against it. It is evident the tract of land upon which the appellee lived, and which he sold to the appellant on the south side of the river, does not contain the quantity of 610 acres, but about the quantity of 543 acres. This is satisfactorily demonstrated by the deed from Doran to the appellee filed, as well as from the surveyor's report made out in this cause. That deed is the only title paper exhibited which establishes any boundary, and from it the quantity is represented to be 543 acres. But it is urged by the appellee that no defect of title is charged in the bill, and consequently he was not bound to produce one. To this may be answered, that though a defect of title is not alleged, defect of quantity is; and to ascertain the quantity, an examination into the title of the tract which the appellee held at the time of sale, becomes proper and necessary, for the purpose of describing the boundary. The title from Doran having been produced, and by that the quantity described is found to contain 543 acres only. If the appellee had any other tract or boundary of land, he should have established it; and his not having done so, is a conclusive circumstance that he had no other, and that the quantity was not so great as he represented. That the appellee knew the tract did not contain 610 acres is equally obvious. He held the land by deed from Doran, and from it he must have known the quantity called for was but 543 acres; and that the quantity sold by the appellee at the time of sale was represented as containing at least 610 acres, from the evidence is abundantly proven. We can have no doubt therefore but that the appellee was guilty of a willful false representation as to the quantity, and for which the appellant is justly entitled to relief. The circumstance of the deed having been acknowledged, cannot affect the appellant's right; for there is no evidence in the cause which proves he had any knowledge of the imposition which had been practiced on him, or that he knew the boundary of the land described in the deed before it was acknowledged; but it seems from evidence that the appellee had the deed drawn according to courses furnished by himself, and of which the appellant had no knowledge. The acknowledgment of a deed thus made surely cannot better the appellee's situation, or in any wise prejudice the appellant's right. FN(a). Young v. Craig, vol. 2, 272. *2 Delaney sold to M'Coun a tract of land, which he represented to contain 610 acres, which on a survey falls short 67 acres; the deficiency not sufficient to set aside the contract, but equity will decree the seller to pay the average price per acre for the deficiency. Grantor making a deed without the grantee's notice does not preclude his right to such compensation for such deficiency. The words more or less in a deed mean that the parties are to run the ??isk of gain ??r loss. But they do not bar ??n inquiry into a fraud committed by the seller in falsely representing the number of acres sold. The quantity described in the deed to Delany, is evidence that he knew how much the tract contained. Upon the whole, we think the appellant entitled to relief; but what should be the extent of that relief, admits of more doubt. We are of opinion, however, that the deficiency of quantity is not such as for which the contract should be canceled, but is properly the subject of compensationFN(a). FN(a). Finley's executors v. Lynch, vol. 2, 566. Decree reversed and cause remanded, and a survey ordered to ascertain the correct quantity of land on the south side of the river, by metes and bounds, included in the tract conveyed by Doran to Delany, excluding that part conveyed by Delany to Reid; and upon the report of the surveyor a decree be entered in favor of M'Coun against Delany for the deficiency between that quantity and 610 acres, to be computed at the rate of six dollars fifteen cents per acre, being the average price of the whole quantity purchased by M'Coun; and that M'Coun be decreed to convey by deed without warranty, the excess which may be included in the deed executed by Delany to him, and which will not be included in the boundary of the tract as before directed to be surveyed. Ky.App. 1813. McCoun v. Delany 3 Bibb 46, 6 Ky. 46, 1813 WL 596 (Ky.), 6 Am.Dec. 635 END OF DOCUMENT
