(Cite as: 2 Bibb 407,  5 Ky. 407 (Ky.),  1811 WL 831 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Crostwaight et ux., etc. v. Hutchinson, etc. Fall Term, 1811. *1 A contract between husband and wife before marriage, that the wife shall hold the property she possessed before marriage as her own, subject to her disposition by declaration or writing in nature of a will or testament notwithstanding coverture, is valid in equity without the intervention of trustees. This contract was not annulled by the subsequent marriage. The husband by his last will and testament devised his property in general terms, without mentioning particularly the property alluded to in the marriage articles, the wife survived and published her last will and testament devising her property to her children; the children of the husband by a former marriage brought their bill against the children by the second marriage to have distribution; the property alluded to in the marriage articles shall pass according to the will of the wife. It is in general true that a person shall not claim under a will and in opposition to it at the same time. But as the will of the husband is in such general terms that the separate property of the wife might or might not pass, according to the validity or invalidity of the articles of marriage, the wife's estate under the articles shall not be intended as devised by the husband; her children mayhold their legacies under both wills. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 560(3) 409 Wills 409VI Construction 409VI(D) Description of Property 409k560 Real Property and Interests Therein in  General 409k560(3) k. Title or Interest of Testator in General.  Most Cited Cases Equity will not presume that from a devise of "his estate" the devisor meant to include property which in equity was not his own. Husband and Wife 205 k 38 205 Husband and Wife 205III Conveyances, Contracts, and Other Transactions Between Husband and Wife 205k38 k. Contracts and Debts Existing at Time of Marriage. Most Cited Cases Contracts between parties who afterwards intermarry will be sustained in equity without the intervention of trustees. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge CLARKE absent. IN consideration of a marriage about to take place between John Hutchinson and Mary Steers, he agreed with her that notwithstanding the intermarriage she should at any time thereafter, have full power and authority, without his consent, to give, sell and dispose of two slaves of which she was possessed in her own right, and their future increase, to any person or persons, or to any use or uses she might please, whether the same should be done by a declaration in writing in the nature of a last will and testament, or by any other deed in writing, signed by her, and attested by one or more credible witnesses. This agreement was signed and sealed by both parties, and shortly after the marriage was solemnized between them. Hutchinson had sundry children by a former wife, and having had two by Mary Steers, he died, leaving a will by which he devised to his wife, "all his estate, both real and personal during her widowhood or natural life, for the purpose of supporting herself and such of his children as chose to live with her." From this devise several articles of property were excepted, which were devised to his children, both of the first and second marriage, and the estate devised to his wife after her death or marriage was devised over to his children generally. Mrs. Hutchinson survived her husband some time and then died, leaving her will duly executed, by which she devised to her two children among other things the slaves she had in her possession, being the increase of one of those mentioned in the marriage agreement. *2 For a distributive share of these slaves, the children by the first marriage claiming under their father's will, brought their bill in chancery against the children of the second marriage, who claim to hold the negroes in contest under their mother's will. The Circuit Court decreed in favor of the complainants, and the defendants appealed to this Court. The first and most important question to be decided is, whether the marriage agreement is sufficient to vest, or rather to preserve in Mrs. Hutchinson a separate interest in the slaves, notwithstanding the intermarriage? Contracts between husband and wife, may be classed under two heads: 1. Those that are made before marriage; and 2. Those that are made after marriage These two descriptions of contract are in several respects essentially different. With respect to those made during coverture they are ipso facto void. In legal contemplation, the very existence of the wife is merged in that of the husband. So completely is she identified with him, that for all civil purposes she is deemed to have no will of her own. A woman is therefore not only incapable of deriving any separate right from a contract with her husband during coverture, for want of a capacity to contract, but if such a right could exist, would be unable to enforce it by a suit at law, on account of the legal unity which is supposed to exist between them. And although a feme covert might always have sued her husband in chancery, yet it seems formerly to have been understood that she could not claim even in equity a separate estate by a contract with her husband during coverture, unless it had been made through the intervention of trustees. There are however some cases of a modern date, in which a gift from a husband to his wife after marriage has been supported, although no trustee intervened. But the number as well as the weight of authorities is perhaps opposed to this doctrine. But be this as it may, it is clear that contracts made before a marriage stand upon a very different footing, whether they are considered with reference to general principles, or upon the score of authority. Neither party is then under any incapacity to contract, and their contracts are not like those made during coverture ipso facto void. It is indeed generally true, that contracts made between husband and wife when single, become extinguished at law by the intermarriage. This is however but a general rule, and is inapplicable to those cases where the duty or demand is not to accrue until the expiration of the coverture, and although where the debt or duty is to arise during the coverture, it is extinguished at law by the marriage, upon the notion that the husband and wife are but one person in law, and cannot sue each other; yet as they may sue each other in a Court of Chancery, a contract, if made with a view to their intermarriage, though void at law, will be sustained in equity. It would indeed be the most flagrant inconsistency, were the very event which was to give effect to the contract permitted to work its destruction. Nor is the intervention of trustees necessary to give validity to such a contract in equity. The same reason for the intervention of trustees does not exist in a case of this kind, as exists in the case of a contract during coverture. In the one case the incapacity of the wife produces the necessity of acting through the medium of others; but in the other she labors under no disability to contract for herself. *3 Upon the score of authority there is no room for a difference of opinion upon this point. The English cases are clear, consistent, and uniform in support of the position that a contract before marriage will be sustained in equity although it may have been made without the intervention of a trustee-- See 2 Vern. 480, 2 Pr. Wms. 243, 2 Com. Digest, 398 and 584, and the authorities there cited. The Circuit Court, who decided that the contract in question was void, because it was not made through the medium of trustees, seems not to have adverted to the distinction between contracts made before, and contracts made after marriage, and was probably misled by those cases which depended upon contracts of the latter description. As the contract is one which a Court of Equity would enforce against the husband, or those claiming as volunteers under him, it seems scarcely necessary to observe that it constitutes a sufficient ground upon which the appellants may resist the claim of the appellees, who have resorted to a Court of Equity for relief. But a second question is made in this case which it seems proper should not be passed over in silence. It is contended for the appellees that the slaves in question were intended by their father to be passed by his will, and that the appellants, who hold other property under the will, ought not to be permitted to claim the slaves in opposition to the will. The principle is certainly correct, that a devisee cannot claim under a will and adverse to the will at the same time. He cannot be permitted to take under one part and reject the rest. He must either confirm the whole or abandon the whole. But in this case it does not appear that the testator intended that the slaves in question should pass by his will. He has not mentioned them, and we cannot presume that from a devise of "his estate," he meant to include the slaves, which in equity were not his. This construction, naturally resulting from the words of the will itself, is rather fortified than weakened by a recurrence to the parol testimony in the cause. The testator seems generally to have treated the slaves as the separate property of his wife: he was however, toward the close of his life, heard by some of the witnesses to say that the marriage agreement was not binding, and to declare his intention of setting it aside or of disregarding it; but by others he was heard to express, about the same period, contrary sentiments. Perhaps the fair conclusion from the whole evidence is that his mind was in a state of oscilation upon this subject when he made his will, and that he purposely used general language, that the slaves might pass thereby or not, accordingly as the marriage agreement should be deemed valid or otherwise. But as the agreement is valid, it is consistent with his intention that the slaves should not pass. The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore, erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded with directions that the bill be dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1811. Crostwaight v. Hutchinson 2 Bibb 407, 5 Ky. 407, 1811 WL 831 (Ky.), 5 Am.Dec. 619 END OF DOCUMENT
