(Cite as: 2 Bibb 312,  5 Ky. 312 (Ky.),  1811 WL 790 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Gray v. Craig et al. Spring Term, 1811. *1 Plaintiff declares on an order to pay in paper ninety days after date, and that defendants accepted it. Proof that they refused to accept in writing lest they should be compelled to pay money if they had not the paper at the time; but that they would pay as they conveniently could, and as they made the paper, is variance between acceptance alleged and that proved. If the Court are moved for several causes to instruct the jury to find as in a case of a nonsuit, and they so instruct the jury, who find accordingly, if either of the causes moved are well founded, the judgment must be affirmed. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 394 302 Pleading 302XVII Issues, Proof, and Variance 302k386 Variance Between Allegations and Proof 302k394 k. Written Instruments. Most Cited Cases Where the plaintiff declared on an order payable 90 days after date, and averred that the defendant accepted the same, and it appeared in evidence that the defendant refused to accept in writing, lest he should be compelled to pay in money at the time, but agreed orally to pay when convenient, it was held that there was a fatal variance between the allegations and the proof. Appeal and Error 30 k 854(5) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(A) Scope, Standards, and Extent, in General 30k851 Theory and Grounds of Decision of Lower  Court 30k854 Reasons for  Decision 30k854(5) k. Direction of Verdict, Dismissal, or  Nonsuit. Most Cited Cases If the court are moved, for several causes, to instruct the jury to find as in a case of a nonsuit, and they so instruct, and the jury find accordingly, if either of the causes are well founded, the judgment must be affirmed. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of assumpsit, in which the plaintiff declared upon an order drawn by Elijah Craig, and directed to the defendants, whereby he requested them to pay to the plaintiff, ninety days after date, a sum therein named, "in good merchantable paper," which order the plaintiff avers was presented to the defendants, who accepted the same. The defendants pleaded non-assumpsit, and on the trial the plaintiff proved that when the order was presented to the defendants they refused to accept it in writing, lest, as they alleged, if they should not pay the paper in ninety days, they might upon such an acceptance be bound to pay money; but that they agreed to pay it as it was convenient, or along as they made the paper, which the agent who presented the order said he supposed would suit the plaintiff; and it was further proved that the defendants afterward made some par?? payments to the plaintiff. The counsel for the defendants thereupon moved the Court to instruct the jury, as in case of a nonsuit, upon the following grounds: 1. Because there was a fatal variance between the allegations and proofs, there being no acceptance, or if any not such as is set forth in the declaration. 2. Because there was no consideration to support the action; and 3. Because the promise in the declaration mentioned was void under the statute of frauds and perjuries. The Court gave the instruction accordingly, to which the plaintiff excepted, and refusing to submit to be nonsuited, the jury found a verdict for the defendants, upon which judgment was rendered by the Court. *2 The assignment of error questions the correctness of the instructions given to the jury. The acceptance laid in the declaration is general, and must be construed to be an acceptance to pay within ninety days according to the tenor and effect of the order, whereas the evidence is of an acceptance to pay as it might be convenient to the defendants, or when they should make the paper in which the payment was to be made. The proof therefore with respect to the acceptance, is substantially variant from the allegation in the declaration; and on this ground the instruction given to the jury to find as in cases of a nonsuit, is clearly supported. This ground being sufficient to justify the instruction, it becomes unnecessary to examine the others which were assumed by the defendants as the basis of their motion; for we cannot admit the position contended for by the plaintiff's counsel, that if either of those grounds be untenable, the instruction would be incorrect. As there existed good and sufficient reason for the instruction, it ought to be presumed that the Court instructed the jury for that reason, and not for those that were insufficient to warrant the instruction. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1811. Gray v. Craig 2 Bibb 312, 5 Ky. 312, 1811 WL 790 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
