(Cite as: 4 Bibb 186,  7 Ky. 186 (Ky.),  1815 WL 714 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Intire v. Hughes. Oct. 6, 1815. *1 Who ought to be parties to a bill. An obligation given by a father to his son for conveyance of land, will be enforced specifically, although founded on the consideration of blood only. West Headnotes Specific Performance 358 k 106(1) 358 Specific Performance 358IV Proceedings and Relief 358k106 Parties 358k106(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases A father executed an obligation to his son to convey 500 acres. The son conveyed a portion of the same to two grantees, one of whom afterwards purchased the interest of the other. The father died without executing a conveyance to his son, and by will devised the land to two of his sons, not including the son to whom he executed the obligation to convey. The son's grantee brought an action against the devisees to obtain a conveyance of the land.  Held, that the son and the grantee whose interest complainant had purchased were necessary parties. Deeds 120 k 17(3) 120 Deeds 120I Requisites and Validity 120I(A) Nature and Essentials of Conveyances in General 120k14 Consideration 120k17 Sufficiency 120k17(3) k. Natural Affection and Personal  Relations. Most Cited Cases A father executed an obligation to his son to convey 500 acres. The son conveyed a portion of the same. The father died without executing a conveyance to his son.  Held, in an action by the son's grantee, against the devisees under the father's will, to obtain a conveyance of the land, that the proximity of blood between the father and son was a good consideration for the conveyance. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was a suit in chancery, brought to obtain a conveyance of a tract of land. The original bill alleges in substance that Nicholas M'Intire executed an obligation to convey 500 acres to his son James M'Intire; that the latter sold a part of the tract to the complainant and his brother William Hughes, and executed a conveyance therefor; but that previous thereto, Nicholas, the father, had died without having conveyed to his son James, and left sundry other children co-heirs with James; and that consequently the conveyance by the latter did not transfer a complete title. It was furthermore alleged that William Hughes, the brother of the complainant, had sold to him his interest; and a decree was prayed for against the heirs of Nicholas M'Intire, all of whom were made defendants. An amended bill was afterward filed, in which it was alleged that the complainant had discovered that Nicholas M'Intire had by his last will devised the whole of the estate in said tract to his two sons Isaac and Jacob, and a decree prayed for against them only. The suit was then discontinued as to the other heirs, and the bill being taken for confessed as to Isaac and Jacob, a decree was pronounced against them; to reverse which they have prosecuted this writ of error. *2 It is contended for the plaintiffs in error that the decree is erroneous--1. Because James M'Intire and William Hughes, under whom the complainant claims, were not parties; and 2. Because there is no consideration alleged upon which the obligation given by N. M'Intire to his son James was founded. 1. There can be no doubt that James M'Intire and William Hughes were necessary parties. According to the statement in the bill, each of them once had an interest in the subject matter of the suit; and to entitle himself to a decree in his favor, it was necessary for the complainant to have shown that they had respectively transferred their interest to him: but whether they had made such transfer or not, is a question which could not be decided so as to be obligatory upon them, unless they were parties to the decision. Had the deed of conveyance from James M'Intire to the complainant and his brother William Hughes been proven or acknowledged and recorded as the law directs, he would have been thereby concluded from asserting a claim in opposition to his deed, and the necessity of making him a party would not have been so apparent. But the deed exhibited does not appear to have been recorded, nor is it alleged to have been recorded; and he could not therefore be estopped to deny it. And as to William Hughes there is no conveyance alleged to have been made by him, whereby there could be any pretense for concluding him from asserting his claim. It is plain, therefore, that for the purpose of preventing future litigation, by deciding upon and settling the rights of all the parties interested, which is the constant aim of a Court of Equity, it was necessary that James M'Intire and William Hughes should have been parties. 2. The second ground taken for the reversal of the decree is clearly untenable. It is true that a Court of Equity will not enforce the specific execution of a contract which is merely voluntary; but the obligation given by Nicholas M'Intire to his son James, is evidently not of that description. The relation between them of father and son, is not only alleged in the bill but is apparent upon the face of the obligation: and that relation, though not a valuable, is deemed in law a good consideration. Under the statute of uses, the proximity of blood between the father and son, is sufficient to support a covenant by the former to stand seized to the use of the latter; and if so, it must have been, prior to the statute, a sufficient consideration to have created the use: for the statute can only operate to transfer the possession to the use where there is an use created. Now an use prior to the statute was similar to what is denominated a trust since. It gave to the cestui que use no right to the thing, but it gave him a right in equity to demand the thing. And prior to the statute it was the common practice to resort to a Court of Chancery to enforce the execution of an use, as it still is to enforce the execution of a trust. The inference is therefore clear, that proximity of blood has always been a sufficient consideration to warrant the interposition of a Court of Equity, where there was no other circumstance in the case which forbid such interposition. But this doctrine does not depend for its support upon reasoning from analogy only: for the cases are numerous in which it has been directly decided.--Newland on Contracts 69-70, and the authorities there cited. *3 Whether, if the contract was not by deed, a Court of Equity would, where there was no other consideration than that of blood, decree its specific execution, is not material to bedecided; nor is the Court to be understood as having given any opinion upon that point: for in this case the contract is under the seal of the party; and combined with the efficacy of a deed, there is no doubt of the sufficiency of the consideration of blood to justify the interposition of a Court of Equity. The decree is however, erroneous for want of proper parties. It must therefore be reversed with costs, and the suit remanded for new proceedings to be had. Ky.App. 1815. McIntire v. Hughes 4 Bibb 186, 7 Ky. 186, 1815 WL 714 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
