(Cite as: 4 Bibb 543,  7 Ky. 543 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1095 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Chinn v. Caldwell and wife. May 30, 1817. *1 A Court of Equity will sustain a bill by the late widow of an intestate against his administrator to recover her share of his estate. Entire copies of judgments or decrees rendered against the administrator are admissible evidence to show the amount for which he is made liable, without producing complete transcripts in each case. The distributees should all be made parties. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 438(11) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k438 Parties 162k438(11) k. Action to Recover Legacy or Distributive Share.  Most Cited Cases All the distributees are necessary parties to a bill for distribution. Evidence 157 k 366(7) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k366 Public Documents, Records, Exemplifications, or Official Copies 157k366(7) k. Part of Judicial Proceedings. Most Cited  Cases Copies of judgments and decrees are competent evidence to show the amounts, without complete transcripts of the records in the cases in which they were rendered. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was a bill filed against John Chinn, as administrator of Rawleigh Chinn, deceased, by Caldwell and his wife, formerly the widow of the intestate, to recover her share of the estate. On the hearing of the cause the defendant offered in evidence copies of sundry decrees and judgments rendered against him as administrator; but the Court rejected them, because they were not accompanied by full and complete transcripts of the records in the cases in which they had been rendered. We are of opinion the Court below erred in their decision of this point. Where it is necessary to show what was the point or matter in controversy in a former suit, it would unquestionably be necessary to produce a copy of the whole pleadings in the case; but when, as in this case, it is only necessary for a party to show that he has been made liable to pay a sum of money in the character of executor or administrator, by a judgment or decree, a copy of such judgment or decree is, we apprehend, sufficient. To be evidence, it should indeed be a copy of the entire judgment or decree, and not a mere partial extract from it: but the copies offered in evidence in this case, appear to be copies of the entire judgments and decrees; and this, we suppose, is all the law requires in such a case. As the decree must be reversed on this ground, it is unnecessary to investigate the other points made by the assignment of error, inasmuch as it appears that there are other distributees who are not parties to the suit, and according to the repeated decisions of this Court, before a final decision can be rendered, the whole of the distributees ought to be before the Court, either as complainants or defendants. *2 Decree reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1817. Chinn v. Caldwell 4 Bibb 543, 7 Ky. 543, 1817 WL 1095 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
