(Cite as: 3 Bibb 10,  6 Ky. 10 (Ky.),  1813 WL 578 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Williams v. Handley. Apr. 14, 1813. West Headnotes Deeds 120 k 99 120 Deeds 120III Construction and Operation 120III(A) General Rules of Construction 120k99 k. Construing Instruments Together. Most Cited  Cases An indorsement made on a deed subsequent to its execution does not become a part of it. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THE only point which seems material to be decided in this case, is, whether an indorsement on a deed made after the execution of the deed, and not sealed by the parties, becomes a part of the deed and may be declared on in an action of covenant. An indorsement made on a deed at the time of its execution becomes a part--but if made at a different time and not sealed by the parties it does not. All the authorities seem to agree, that where any matter is underwritten or indorsed upon the deed at the time the deed is executed, it becomes a component part of the deed and may be so treated in pleading. But we have not been able to find any case at common law, in which an under writing or indorsement made at another time, has been held to be a part of the original deed. In the case of Cook v. Reinington, 6 Mod. 237, it was expressly decided that an indorsement made after the time of the execution of the deed, ought not to be taken as a part of the deed. Upon principle this doctrine seems to be correct. An agreement made and indorsed at a different time, is in fact a different agreement. If it be sealed and delivered, it becomes a new deed, and must be so treated; but if it be not sealed and delivered, to take it as part of the original deed, would be imposing upon the party an obligation which the law creates only in respect to certain solemnities, when the transaction was not in truth accompanied by those solemnities. The demurrer, therefore, to the declaration in this case, we think was correctly sustained by the Court below.--Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1813. Williams v. Handley 3 Bibb 10, 6 Ky. 10, 1813 WL 578 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
