(Cite as: 4 Bibb 277,  7 Ky. 277 (Ky.),  1815 WL 774 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Owsley v. Beasley. Dec. 9, 1815. *1 In an action upon a note under seal, plea that the note was given in consideration of the hire of a negro for 12 months, and that the negro was taken by the obligee out of his possession against his wishes, and before the expiration of the time, is no bar to the action; it is only a plea of a partial failure of consideration--See Peebles v. Stephens, vol. 1, 502. West Headnotes Slaves 356 k 8 356 Slaves 356k8 k. Hiring of Slaves. Most Cited Cases In an action on a note under sale, a plea that the note was given in consideration of the hire of a negro for 12 months, and that the negro was taken by the obligee out of his possession, against his wishes, before the expiration of the time, is no bar to the action;  it is only a plea of a partial failure of consideration. Bills and Notes 56 k 452(3) 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k450 Defenses 56k452 Particular Grounds 56k452(3) k. Want or Failure of Consideration. Most  Cited Cases A partial failure of consideration cannot be shown in defense of an action on a bill or note. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge OWSLEY absent. THIS action was brought upon a note under seal. The defendant, for plea, in substance alleged that the note was given to the assignor of the plaintiff, in consideration of the hire of a negro for twelve months; and that the negro was taken out of his possession by the assignor of the plaintiff against his wishes, and before the expiration of the twelve months. To this plea the plaintiff demurred, and the Court below gave judgment upon the demurrer for the defendant, to which the plaintiff prosecutes this writ of error. We are of opinion the matter contained in the plea, is not in point of law a sufficient defense to the action. If in contracts of this sort, the agreement on the part of the proprietor to let a slave upon hire, is to be regarded as executory, the agreement and not the performance of the agreement, is to be taken as the true consideration of the agreement on the other side to pay the price; and unless by the terms of the contract, the payment of the price is made to depend upon the performance of the agreement to let to hire, a failure to perform the latter could not be pleaded in bar to an action brought for the non-payment of the price. But the agreement on the part of the proprietor to let a slave to hire, ought perhaps to be regarded rather as executed than executory, and in that point of view the services of the slave, and not the agreement to let to hire, is the true consideration of the agreement on the other side. But if the contract be considered in this light, still the plea in this case amounts to a denial of part of the consideration only; and according to the repeated decisions of this Court, the plea is insufficient, and the demurrer to it ought to have been sustained. *2 The judgment reversed with costs, and cause remanded for proceedings to be had not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Owsley v. Beasley 4 Bibb 277, 7 Ky. 277, 1815 WL 774 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
