(Cite as: 1 Bibb 562,  4 Ky. 562 (Ky.),  1809 WL 817 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Dupuy v. Johnson. Nov. 14, 1809. *1 Action for money had and received, or for money laid out and expended, is an equitable action. Lies for money which ex equo et bono, the defendant ought to refund. And on the general issue, any evidence is admissible which tends to repel or diminish the responsibility of the defendant. In a suit by one of several defendants, who has paid the decree to recover of a co-defendant his proportional contribution, the decree against them cannot be impeached. One of several co-defendants praying a judgment or decree founded on contract, or quasi contract, may have contribution of his co-defendants. Liability to equal contribution is but presumption, and may be repelled by testimony dehors the record. One who is bound to warrant is not responsible to the vendee upon eviction for mesne profits received by the vendee nor fo?? damages done to the land. The return of a sheriff on an execution is evidence prima facia of what he has done, according to the command of the writ. But it is not evidence of a fact done by another. Nor of a fact about which he was not required to make report. West Headnotes Implied and Constructive Contracts 205H k 75 205H Implied and Constructive Contracts 205HII Actions 205HII(A) In General 205Hk75 k. In general. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 263k6  Money Paid) Assumpsit for money had and received is a proper form of action in which one of several joint debtors may enforce contribution from his co-debtors. Implied and Constructive Contracts 205H k 84 205H Implied and Constructive Contracts 205HII Actions 205HII(B) Pleading 205Hk83 Issues, Proof, and Variance 205Hk84 k. Evidence admissible under pleadings. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 263k8  Money Paid) In an action for money paid, any evidence is admissible under the general issue which tends to repel or diminish the responsibility of the defendant. Implied and Constructive Contracts 205H k 10 205H Implied and Constructive Contracts 205HI Nature and Grounds of Obligation 205HI(B) Money Received 205Hk10 k. In general. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 264k1  Money Received) An action for money had and received is an equitable action, and lies for all money which in justice and good conscience the defendant ought to repay to plaintiff. Contribution 96 k 4 96 Contribution 96k2 Common Interest or Liability 96k4 k. Joint debtors. Most Cited Cases One of several co-defendants, who has paid the amount of a judgment or decree founded on contract or quasi contract, may compel contribution from the others. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. JOHNSON declared in assumpsit against Dupuy and laid in his declaration on two counts. The first is an indebitatus assumpsit for money laid out and expended by him for the use of Dupuy. The second states, in substance, that Roland's heirs in a suit against Johnson, Dupuy and others, having obtained a decree for L173 12s.i 6Id. assessed by commissioners, under the occupying claimant law, for the rents and profits of land, recovered by said heirs of said defendants, Johnson and Dupuy, with William Vawter, their security, executed their bond for the payment of said sum; that Johnson has paid the whole amount thereof, together with the costs of execution, amounting in all to the sum of L 217 5s.i 9Id.; that in fact he was liable to said Roland's heirs, in his own right, only for a small part of the said rents and profits, namely, the sum of four or five pounds, and that Dupuy was liable for the balance; that he has also paid the costs of the suit above mentioned, amounting to L5 2s.i 10Id. and that he was bound of right to pay his proportion only, and that Dupuy was liable for his proportion, which was about thirteen pounds; that having paid the said several sums for Dupuy, amounting in the whole to L223 15s. 9d. Dupuy became thereby indebted to him in that sum, and, being so indebted, promised to pay, etc. *2 Dupuy pleaded non-assumpsit, and issue was thereupon joined to the country. On the trial, Johnson gave in evidence the record in the case of Roland's heirs against Johnson, Dupuy and others, and proved, by Harman Bowmar, that himself and Trabue were purchasers from Dupuy, and in possession, and that Dupuy was a purchaser from Cave Johnson, who purchased from Johnson, the plaintiff in the present action; and thereupon Dupuy, by his counsel, moved the Court to instruct the jury to find for him as in case of a non-suit, but the motion was overruled by the Court, and the evidence directed to go to the jury; to which opinion of the Court Dupuy's counsel excepted. The counsel for Dupuy then moved the Court to instruct the jury that Dupuy was not liable for the rents of the lands possessed by Bowmar and Trabue under general warranty bond for the conveyance of the land they possessed; which motion was overruled by the Court, and the jury instructed that Dupuy was liable for the rents due and received from, and the damages done on said land, assessed by the commissioners, under the occupying claimant law: to this opinion and instruction of the Court, Dupuy's counsel filed a second bill of exception. Johnson having produced no other evidence to prove the payment of the money than two executions and the returns of the sheriff thereon, as stated in the record contained in the first bill of exception, Dupuy's counsel moved the Court to instruct the jury that the returns upon the executions were not legal and competent evidence to go to the jury to prove the payment of the money by Johnson; but the Court overruled the motion, and the counsel for Dupuy filed a third bill of exceptions. The jury found a verdict for Johnson for L250 12s. 9d. and judgment was rendered for him accordingly; to which Dupuy prosecutes this writ of error. The only points insisted upon by the errors assigned, which we deem it necessary to notice, are those made by the several bills of exception. We will consider them in the order they were made to the Court below; and first, as to the motion to direct the jury as in case of a non-suit. It is evident that a motion of this sort ought only to prevail where the proof adduced by the plaintiff will not warrant a recovery of any part of the demand. Where, from the nature of the action, the specific things, or the entire sum sued for, can only be recovered, a failure of proof as to part, is equivalent to a failure in the whole; but where, as in action of assumpsit, the plaintiff may recover less than he goes for, he is not bound to prove the whole, and proof of any part will entitle him to a verdict pro tanto. To authorize a conclusion in the present case that there was such a total failure of evidence, it ought to have appeared, either that there was no competent proof that Johnson had paid the money in question, or that Dupuy was not liable to refund any part of it. The competency of the evidence to prove that Johnson had paid the money, being the point made by the third bill of exceptions, its consideration may be postponed until we come to that part of the subject. We will, for the present, suppose that Johnson has paid the money, and upon that hypothesis examine Dupuy's liability to refund. According to the modern doctrine, there is no difference at law or in equity with respect to his liability. The action for money had and received, or for money laid out and expended, is an equitable action, and is held to lie wherever money has been paid to the use of another, which, exequo et bono, he ought to refund. The defense allowed to this action is equally liberal, everything being permitted to be given in evidence on the general issue which may tend to destroy or diminish the equity of the plaintiff's claim. *3 The correctness of this doctrine was not disputed in the argument of the question now under consideration. It was not a point of controversy whether a bill in chancery or an action at law was the most appropriate remedy, but whether Dupuy was entitled to a total exemption from all liability. The claim of immunity from responsibility on the part of Dupuy was asserted upon the grounds, 1st, that the decree for the rents and profits was erroneous, and that Johnson paid the money in his own wrong, when he might, and ought to have had the decree reversed; 2dly, that where a joint judgment or decree is pronounced against several, and the money is paid by one, he has no claim upon the others to refund. That a judgment or decree pronounced by a Court having competent jurisdiction of the case is binding until it is reversed by a Court of appellate jurisdiction, and that it never can be overhauled, or its correctness questioned in an original suit, is a doctrine founded upon principles too solid to be shaken, and too obvious to require discussion. The contrary doctrine would involve the monstrous absurdity of making litigation endless, and rendering every decision fruitless and unavailing. That Johnson was under any peculiar obligation to have prosecuted a writ of error to reverse the decree, does not appear; nor is it practicable that it should appear, since we are bound by law to presume that the decree is correct, and to admit of no averment to the contrary. The second ground of exemption is equally untenable. That one of several defendants, in an action founded upon a tort or trespass, having paid the judgment, cannot compel the others to make contribution, may be correct; but every principle of policy, as well as justice, forbids the application of such a doctrine to judgments or decrees founded upon contracts, or quasi contracts. In the case of torts, the law holds each one concerned liable for the whole amount of the injury, and equity cannot interpose to relieve a man from the legal effect of his own wrong; but the same principle does not apply to the case of contracts, or quasi contracts. Upon the whole, we can see no just ground for Dupuy's claim to an exemption from all liability. The degree in which he is responsible, is a distinct question; an investigation of which leads us to the point made in the second bill of exceptions, namely, whether he is liable for the rents and profits accruing from, and the damages done upon the land possessed by Bowmar and Trabue under general warranty bonds. The decree for the rents and profits, as appears from the record contained in the bill of exceptions, was pronounced against Johnson, Dupuy, and two others. We had, at first view, some doubt whether, in ascertaining the respective responsibility of the several defendants, it was proper to resort to evidence dehors the decree; and as it was joint, the presumption would be, that they were all equally bound: but upon reflection, we are satisfied that the presumption of an equal responsibility to contribute to the payment of the money decreed, is but a presumption of fact, which may be rebutted by other evidence, and will stand only until the contrary be proven. Nor is this at all inconsistent with the most absolute verity of the decree. It has not pretended to fix the respective rights and responsibilities of the defendants, as between them nothing has been litigated, nothing decided. To illustrate our ideas upon this subject, we may suppose a judgment recovered against two upon a joint obligation. The whole amount is levied of one, who brings his action to have it refunded, upon the ground that he was merely a surety in the obligation; he would certainly not be prohibited from resorting to proof out of the record to sustain his claim to a repetition of the money. *4 But if Johnson be permitted to go out of the record to show the extent of Dupuy's liability, it is equally competent to Dupuy to diminish or destroy his liability by evidence drawn from the same source. The question then fairly occurs, is Dupuy liable for the profits of, and the damages done upon the land possessed by Bowmar and Trabue? He can only be liable for the profits upon the principle of an express or implied contract. No express contract is pretended, and there is no consideration upon which the law can imply a contract. It is the actual pernancy of the profits which, in contemplation of law, creates the obligation to pay. So far, therefore, as he has been an actual pernancy of the profits, and no farther, is he bound to refund to Johnson. But it is still more clear that he cannot be liable for the damages done upon the land by Bowmar and Trabue. It is not pretended that he participated in the waste, or other damage done upon the land; and upon what principle of law or justice is it that he can be made liable for it? Having given his bond to convey to Bowmar and Trabue, with general warranty, can make no difference in his obligation to account for the profits and damages. It never has been suggested that a general warranty would bind the vendor to make good to the vendee the mesne profits of the land sold in case of eviction, much less to indemnify him for money he may have been compelled to pay to the successful claimant for damages done on the land. To account for the value of the land at one period or another, has been supposed by all, however much they may differ as to the period at which the valuation is to be made, to be the extent of the vendor's obligation. The instruction of the Court, therefore, upon this point was erroneous. We come now to the consideration of the point made by the third bill of exceptions. The return made by the sheriff upon the executions issued upon the replevin bonds given by Johnson, is this, "paid in full to plaintiffs." So far as the sheriff is authorized by the execution to act and make report of what he does, his return will be received as prima facie evidence of what it imports; but when he reports a fact which he was not authorized to do by virtue of the execution, or a fact which was done by another, his return cannot be considered as proof of the fact. Had he returned, however informally, that he had made the money, he would have been believed; but his return does not import that the money was made by virtue of the executions. It may, and probably does mean that it was paid by the defendant in the execution, or by somebody else for him, but not coerced by the execution. Of such a fact his return cannot be taken as evidence. But the very ambiguity and uncertainty of the return destroys its efficacy as proof. On this point we also think the Court below erred. It would follow, therefore, as Johnson has failed to prove by competent testimony that he had paid the money, that he has not shown he was entitled to demand it of Dupuy, and that, consequently, the motion to direct the jury to find as in case of a non-suit ought to have prevailed.--Judgment reversed. Ky.App. 1809. Dupuy v. Johnson 1 Bibb 562, 4 Ky. 562, 1809 WL 817 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
