(Cite as: 3 Bibb 411,  6 Ky. 411 (Ky.),  1814 WL 806 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bowman v. Brewer, etc. Jul. 11, 1814. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A. and others enter 1,000 acres "between H. and Cane run, including the forks of the path that leads from said H. to Q. and Hogans."  As it was believed that no locator could consider this entry with reference to the two forks, and doubt its meaning as to the one intended, and as that was the only point on which doubt could be raised, the entry was held valid. Opinion of the Court by Judge LOGAN. Chief Justice BOYLE did not sit in this cause. *1 THIS is a suit for land, under adverse conflicting claims. The appellees rely solely on the elder patent; so that it will be only necessary to investigate the claim of the appellant. He derives his title under the following entry: "Isaac Hite, John Bowman, Abraham Bowman and Joseph Bowman enter 1000 acres, by virtue of a treasury warrant No. 632, between Harrodsburg and Cane run, including the forks of the path that leads from said town to Quirk's and Hogan's. May 10th, 1780." Entry "100 acres, between Harrodsburg and Cane run, including the forks of the path that leads from said town to Quirk's and Hogan's." Two forks were known, one only half a mile from town the other about half way between town and Cane run. The entry to He at the most distant fork, because otherwise it would include a part of the land reserved for the town and its inhabitants, etc. Survey to be in a square to the cardinal points, the fork of the path at the intersection of the diagonals. The only doubt as to the validity of this entry arises between two forks which are shown and proved to have existed and been sufficiently known when the complainant's entry was made. The several objects called for in the entry are all proved to have been generally known. It is not material that the place called Quirk's, was well known by other names; because it is abundantly proven to have been also generally known by the name of Quirk's. There were two roads leading from Harrodsburg, both of which forked with roads leading to Hogan's and to Quirk's. One only existed at an earlier period, and seems to have been generally known; the other was afterward made; and was better known to later adventurers or those of after acquaintance about Harrodsburg. But we are of opinion that either road and its forks were sufficiently known. Hence results the inquiry as to the uncertainty produced by the one upon the other from the calls in this entry. We cannot doubt in applying the evidence to the objects before us, as to the road and forks intended; nor can we believe that any subsequent locator would have been embarrassed in selecting the fork intended. Hogan's and Quirk's were each four or five miles from Harrodsburg, one an eastwardly and the other a southeastwardly course. The forks on one road were about two miles, and on the other about half a mile from Harrodsburg. With this information, who could doubt the intention of the locator of 1000 acres of land to include the forks, and to lie between Harrodsburg and Cane run, which were situated about four miles apart? His claim, if considered as located at one place, must have encroached upon the very walls of the fort, included the adjacent improvements, and covered the greater part of the land reserved by law to its villagers. It is not probable that the locator, under this state of facts, had he intended the forks near the town, would have described the land as lying between Harrodsburg and Cane run. Why, can it be conceived, should he have referred to Cane run as descriptive of his land thus contiguous to Harrodsburg, and the forks of the road within a few poles of one of the town fields? It is believed no subsequent locator could consider this entry with reference to the two forks, and doubt its meaning as to the one intended. One fork is nearly equidistant between the two given places, and the appropriation would occupy about one-third of the land between those places; but at the other fork a reference to Cane run could scarcely be believed to have been thought of by the locator. It was contiguous to town, near the field, would cover the town land in its appropriation, and bind upon the fort. If we seek for a probable and rational meaning in the locator, in order to give application to his entry, to one of the two places, and a liberal and fair construction to the call to lie between the two places referred to, we think the entry unquestionably good, and that the Circuit Court therefore erred. The claim should have been surveyed in a square to the cardinal points, with the fork of the road on Azariah's run leading to Hogan's and Quirk's in the center. And for all the land which will fall within the survey as made, when thus laid down, the defendants must be decreed to convey to the complainant below. *2 Wherefore it is decreed and ordered that the decree of the Circuit Court be reversed and set aside; that the cause be remanded to said Court, for a decree to be entered agreeably to the foregoing opinion, and such other decrees and orders as may be required by law and equity. Ky.App. 1814. Bowman v. Brewer 3 Bibb 411, 6 Ky. 411, 1814 WL 806 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
