(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 263,  17 Ky. 263 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1553 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The Case of Cochran's Will. Dec. 23, 1824. *1 Wills, Insanity, Evidence, Onus Probandi. APPEAL FROM THE MERCER COUNTY COURT. West Headnotes Wills 409 k 44 409 Wills 409II Testamentary Capacity 409k44 k. Intoxication and Delirium Tremens. Most Cited Cases Where the testator, for some time before the execution of the will, and until his death, was in general in a state of derangement, produced by intemperance, but with some intervals when he was of a disposing mind, it ought clearly to appear that the will was made in one of those lucid intervals. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. The execution of the will was proved by the two subscribing witnesses, and the only question is as to the sanity of the testator's mind. Where the testator, for some time before the execution of the will, and until his death, was, in general, in a state of derangement, produced by intemperance, but enjoying some intervals in which he was of disposing mind, to establish the will, it ought to appear, by clear and satisfactory proof, that the will was made in one of those lucid intervals. That for some time before the execution of the will, and until his death, the testator's mind was, in general, in a state of derangement, produced by the habitual and intemperate use of ardent spirits, can not, we think, be doubted. He enjoyed, no doubt, in that period, some intervals, in which his mind might be deemed competent for the purpose of making his will; but to justify the establishment of the will, it ought to be shown by clear and satisfactory testimony, to have been made in one of those lucid intervals. This, we think, has not been done. The two subscribing witnesses were wholly incapable of testifying to the sanity of the testator's mind, and the testimony of the only other witness present at the execution of the will, is inconclusive and unsatisfactory. The order of the county court refusing to admit the will to record, must be affirmed with costs. Haggin and Sharp, attorney general, for the devisees; Barry and Crittenden, for the heirs. Ky.App. 1824. In re Cochran's Will 1 T.B.Mon. 263, 17 Ky. 263, 1824 WL 1553 (Ky.), 15 Am.Dec. 116 END OF DOCUMENT
