(Cite as: 3 Bibb 284,  6 Ky. 284 (Ky.),  1814 WL 760 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Geohagan v. Baker. Apr. 13, 1814. West Headnotes Animals 28 k 61 28 Animals 28k58 Estrays 28k61 k. Impounding or Taking Up. Most Cited Cases A person who found a horse in the possession of a man apprehended for felony, and kept him, but without complying with the requisitions of the statute respecting estrays, cannot maintain trover against another person subsequently obtaining possession by purchase from a stranger, without notice of the plaintiff's claim. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS was an action for the trover and conversion of a horse. A verdict was given for the defendant and a judgment rendered thereon, to which the plaintiff prosecutes this writ of error. Possession of a chattel authorizes the possessor to defend the possession against all but the right owner, or maintain an action for an injury done to his possession. The only point which merits serious consideration, grows out of a bill of exceptions taken to the opinion of the Court overruling the plaintiff's application for a new trial. The evidence stated in the bill of exceptions shows that the plaintiff found the horse in the possession of a man apprehended for felony, and upon the supposition that the horse had been stolen, detained him in his possession, and now seems to set up claim to him in the character of a stray. But he does not appear to have performed the requisites, or to have kept the horse for the length of time which under the act concerning strays would vest the right of property in him as the taker up. But if the chattel be casually lost and come to the possession of another by finding or other lawful means the former possessor cannot maintain trover against the latter. On the part of the defendant it was proven that he had purchased the horse of a stranger of genteel appearance, for a price adequate to his value, and without any knowledge of the plaintiff's claim. How the stranger acquired the horse does not appear. Had he without title obtained him by tortiously violating the possession of the plaintiff, the latter might unquestionably have reclaimed him while he remained in the hands of the tort feasor; but in the absence of all proof to substantiate the fact, we ought not perhaps to presume such to have been the case; and if he either had title, or had acquired the horse as a stray, without the possession of the plaintiff, we apprehend he would not have been liable to the plaintiff's action. In the former case no doubt could arise, as the right would be wholly on the side of the defendant. In the latter case both parties might be considered as the finders of that which had been lost. While the horse remained in the actual or legal possession of the plaintiff, for any injury done to that possession he had a right to maintain an action against any person but the real owner; but when he had strayed from his possession, animo non revertendi, the next finder had the same right to the horse, and might in like manner have maintained an action for an injury done to his possession, against any one except the proprietor. In such a case, therefore, the rights of the parties would be equal, and the maxim pari jure melior est conditio possidentis would emphatically apply. If then the plaintiff could not have maintained his action against the person from whom the defendant purchased, it necessarily follows that he could not maintain it against the defendant. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Geohagan v. Baker 3 Bibb 284, 6 Ky. 284, 1814 WL 760 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
