(Cite as: 1 Bibb 477,  4 Ky. 477 (Ky.),  1809 WL 782 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Buckner v. Curry. Jun. 15, 1809. *1 Assignor cannot be made responsible for more than he represented as due on the note assigned. Parol evidence of the sum represented to be due is admissible. Cost of suit unjustly prosecuted by assignee v. obligor, ought not to be recovered of the assignor, nor the costs of a suit in which assignee voluntarily suffered a nonsuit. West Headnotes Bills and Notes 56 k 300 56 Bills and Notes 56VIII Rights and Liabilities on Indorsement or Transfer 56VIII(B) Indorsement for Transfer 56k300 k. Extent of Liability. Most Cited  Cases Where a note was assigned, on which a payment had been made, and it was proved that the assignor represented the amount truly to the assignee, the assignee cannot recover of the assignor more than the sum which he represented to be due. Costs 102 k 28 102 Costs 102I Nature, Grounds, and Extent of Right in General 102k26 Separate Actions 102k28 k. On Same Cause of Action. Most Cited  Cases Where an indorsee of a note voluntarily suffers a nonsuit, in an action thereon against the maker, when he might have had a recovery of a judgment for its amount, less what had been paid thereon prior to its indorsement, he cannot, in a subsequent suit against his indorser on the note, recover the costs which he might have recovered against such maker if he had prosecuted his suit against the latter. Evidence 157 k 469 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(E) Showing Discharge or Performance of Obligation 157k469 k. Payment. Most Cited Cases In a suit by the assignee against the assignor on a note, parol evidence is admissible on the part of the assignor, to show that at the time of the assignment he represented to the assignee that a payment had been made on the note. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. BUCKNER, as indorsee, brought his action against Curry, as indorser of a promissory note, made by one E. Ashby to said Curry, for L17 10s 3d. He avers that having prosecuted a suit to trial against Ashby, that said Ashby produced to the Court and jury, a receipt for eight pounds eight shillings and seven pence, given by the said Curry, anterior to the assignment of said note by said Curry to said Buckner, and it was then and there allowed to operate as a partial discharge of the said note. He then avers that he expended in the prosecution of said suit against said Ashby, the sum of L>>>>>>17 9s 8d 1-2, which said sum of money said Curry became liable to pay, etc., and being so liable, assumed, etc. Curry pleaded non assumpsit, and on the trial the plaintiff produced the note and receipt before mentioned in evidence; to rebut which Curry procured a witness, who deposed that he had in the spring 1790, against said Curry, an execution in the hands of said Buckner, as sheriff; that the said Buckner and witness went to the house of Curry, who said he was scarce of money, but in the hearing of Buckner, offered to let the witness have a note on E. Ashby, for 16 or 17 pounds, on which there was a balance due of 7 or 8 pounds; the witness refused to take it, and the said Buckner replied that Ashby was good; the witness was not present at the assignment of the note in question, nor did he know anything of it. *2 The judge directed the jury, that if they were satisfied that the sum due on the note at the time of the assignment, was no more than 7 or 8 pounds, and believed the testimony of the witness, they must find a verdict for the defendant; to which direction of the judge Buckner excepted. The plaintiff offered in evidence, the record of a suit Buckner assignee of Curry against Ashby, which being objected to was rejected, to which an exception was also taken by Buckner. The jury found for Curry the defendant, and judgment was rendered thereon against Buckner for the cost, to which judgment the plaintiff has prosecuted this writ of error. The correctness of the instruction of the judge given to the jury to find for the defendant, and of his opinion in rejecting the record as evidence, are the points made before this Court. The testimony given by the witness tended to prove that before the assignment of the note by Curry to Buckner, the payer had paid a further sum than appears to have been credited upon the note, and that Buckner was apprised of this fact. In the conversation which the witness states to have passed in the presence and hearing of Buckner, Curry represents the amount due upon the note as being not greater than would have been still payable, if the receipt for the L8 8s 7d had been credited. It is not rational to presume, that after having been thus informed of the real amount due upon the note, that Buckner would give a full consideration for the whole nominal amount of the note, and if he received it for so much only as was really due, though the credits were not indorsed, there is no principle of law or equity, that would render Curry liable to a greater amount. Considering the tendency of the testimony, it seems therefore not improper in the Court below to have directed the jury hypothetically, that if they believed the evidence they ought to find for Curry. It is evident that if Curry was not liable for the L8 8s 7d the amount of the receipt, that he ought not to have been made to pay the costs of the suit which Buckner in his own wrong prosecuted against Ashby. The record was therefore properly rejected as evidence on this ground. But there is yet a farther reason for its rejection. For anything to the contrary apparent on the face of the record, there was, after crediting the amount of the receipt before mentioned, sufficient due upon the note to have entitled Buckner to a recovery against Ashby. But he voluntarily suffered a non-suit. Curry ought not therefore to be made liable to pay the costs, which might have been recovered of Ashby, had Buckner prosecuted his suit. Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1809. Buckner v. Curry 1 Bibb 477, 4 Ky. 477, 1809 WL 782 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
