(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 3,  17 Ky. 3 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1459 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Buckner v. Conly. Oct. 5, 1824. *1 New Trial, Suspension of Judgment, Practice. ERROR TO THE BOONE CIRCUIT; JOHN TRIMBLE, JUDGE. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 155 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k155 k. Time for Hearing and Decision. Most Cited Cases A new trial cannot be granted at a term subsequent to the judgment, unless the court has done some act to suspend the judgment and continue the cause;  and this is not done by the counsel filing grounds for a new trial, which were indorsed by the clerk, "Filed," etc., without an entry on the record. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action of assumpsit. The cause was tried upon the general issue, and a verdict and judgment were rendered for the defendant at the August term of the Boone Circuit Court, 1822. At the ensuing November term of the court, a new trial was granted on the motion of the plaintiff, to which the defendant excepted, and on the second trial a verdict and judgment having been rendered for the plaintiff, the defendant has brought the case to this court by writ of error. (1.) As, by the judgment for the defendant at the August term, the cause was at an end and the parties out of court, it can not be doubted that the court, at the ensuing term, had no power to set aside the verdict and judgment and award a new trial, without having at the August term done some act by which the judgment was suspended and the cause continued, either expressly or by implication. (1) A new trial can not be granted at a term subsequent to judgment, unless the court has done some act to suspend the judgment and continue the cause. (2.) But there appears to have been no such act done by the court. Reasons for a new trial had been lodged with the papers in the cause on the last day of the August term, by the counsel of the plaintiff, and on the paper containing these reasons, the clerk had endorsed "filed August 10th, 1822, in court;" but there was no notice taken of this paper or of any intended motion in consequence of it, either on the minute book or order book, and the filing of the paper being the mere act of the party, could not, without some notice being taken of it by the court, in the minutes or records of its proceedings, operate to suspend the judgment and continue the cause, and of course, the court having no power over the cause at the November term, it was erroneous to set aside the verdict and judgment and award a new trial. (2) Suspension of judgment and continuance of the cause is not effected by counsel's filing grounds for a new trial, and the clerk's endorsing on them, ""filed, &c., in court," without an entry on record. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that the verdict on the second trial may be set aside, and the judgment on the first verdict remain in full force. Todd, for plaintiff; Rout, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. Buckner v. Conly 1 T.B.Mon. 3, 17 Ky. 3, 1824 WL 1459 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
