(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 138,  19 Ky. 138 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1251 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Beaty & Skinner v. Scrivener. Apr. 6, 1826. *1 Covenants. Pleading. Impossibilities. Evidence. Damages. ERROR TO THE ESTILL CIRCUIT; GEORGE SHANNON, JUDGE. West Headnotes Evidence 157 k 113(2) 157 Evidence 157IV Admissibility in General 157IV(A) Facts in Issue and Relevant to Issues 157k113 Value or Market Price of Property 157k113(2) k. Time and Place of Valuation. Most Cited  Cases If there is no proof of the price at which an article shipped to a certain place was sold, evidence of the general price when it arrived is proper. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Statement. This is a writ of error, prosecuted by the defendants, to a judgment recovered against them by the plaintiff, in an action of covenant. The first point which the case presents for our consideration, relates to the sufficiency of a plea in bar of the action, which, on demurrer, was held bad by the circuit court. To understand this point correctly, it is necessary to state the substance of the declaration and plea. The action was founded upon a covenant, by the defendants, to freight for the plaintiff five hogsheads of tobacco to New Orleans, and return to him the sales thereof, with the inspector's manifest, for which services they were to have one dollar per hundred weight, in the currency of this country; and the declaration, after setting forth the covenant, alleges, that the tobacco was sold, and that the defendants had failed to return the sale of the same to the plaintiff. To an action on a covenant to freight tobacco to N. Orleans, and return an account of sales, plea that defendant did freight the tobacco to N. O. but when it arrived, there was no market, and it could not be sold, and he stored it up, is insufficient.______ The plea alleges, that the defendants did freight the tobacco to New Orleans, and that when they arrived there, it would not sell for any price, there being no demand for the article, whereby it became impossible to return to the plaintiff an account of the sale, and the defendants stored up the said tobacco, &c. We concur with the circuit court in the opinion, that this plea is insufficient to bar the action. The plea admits that the defendants had not performed their covenant, by returning an account of the sale of the tobacco, but offers as an excuse for their failure to do so, the want of a market for the article, when they arrived at New Orleans. It might well be questioned, whether the want of a market for any length of time, could be deemed a sufficient excuse for not returning an account of the sale of the tobacco. It is true, that without a market there could be no sale, and without a sale there could be no return of an account of the sale. But as the defendants had expressly covenanted to return an account of the sales, without reservation or exception, a failure, however, unavoidable in the means necessary to enable them to perform their covenant, could not, in general, be deemed a valid excuse for a non-performance. *2 The plea, in such case, ought, at least, to show, that it had never afterwards been possible to make the sales. Where the law creates a duty, the non-performance of it will be excused by any inevitable accident, which prevents its performance; but where a party, by his own act, as by an express covenant, creates a duty, the law, in general, will not excuse him, although he may have been prevented from performing it by unavoidable accident. Where the law creates the duty, it will excuse the nonperformance by inevitable accident ______ Otherwise, in general, where the party himself creates the obligation by his own act, or express covenant. But without applying this doctrine, which, to some, may have the appearance of too much rigour, to the present case, it is plain that the matter alleged in the plea in question, is not a sufficient excuse for the non-performance of the defendants' covenant. They were not bound to sell the tobacco at the moment of their arrival at New Orleans, and, of course, they might have sold it at any time afterwards, when there was a market for it. The excuse, therefore, to be sufficient, should have been co-extensive with their right to sell; but the plea only alleges, that they were unable to sell the tobacco when they arrived at New Orleans, without attempting to account for their not selling it at any time thereafter. The plea was, therefore, rightly adjudged insufficient by the circuit court. There is only one other question which occurs in the case, and that is in relation to the admissibility of evidence offered by the defendants, and rejected by the circuit court. The cause was tried upon the plea of covenants performed, and the defendants failing to produce any evidence in support of the issue, the plaintiff read in evidence the covenant declared on, which bore date the 28th of March, 1822, and proved, by several witnesses, the prices for which tobacco sold about the first of May of that year, at New Orleans. The defendants then proved by a witness, that they arrived with the tobacco at Orleans about the last of May, or the first of June, of the year 1822, and asked the witness, what tobacco sold for at the time of their arrival? To this question the plaintiff objected, and the court sustained the objection, and would not let the witness answer, but said the defendants might prove what the plaintiff's tobacco actually sold for. With this decision of the circuit court, we can not accord. In an inquiry of damages for failing to return an account of sales of tobacco, covenanted to be freighted and sold at New Orleans, if there be no proof of the price at which the sales of the cargo were effected, evidence of the general price when it arrived is proper. Had there been proof that the defendants had sold the plaintiff's tobacco, and the price at which it sold had been ascertained, it would have afforded the correct criterion of the damages to be recovered by the plaintiff, and any evidence of the price of other tobacco, would have been impertinent and improper; but as there was no proof of the defendants having sold the plaintiff's tobacco, or of the price at which it was sold, proof of the prices of tobacco in general, at the place, and about the time when it was reasonably expected by the parties that the sale of the plaintiff's tobacco was to be made, was not only proper, but necessary, to enable the jury to ascertain the damages sustained by the plaintiff, which they were bound to do, as well as to try the issue. *3 The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, and proceedings there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Turner, for plaintiffs; Caperton, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Beaty v. Scrivener 3 T.B.Mon. 138, 19 Ky. 138, 1826 WL 1251 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
