(Cite as: 3 Bibb 465,  6 Ky. 465 (Ky.),  1814 WL 829 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kennedy's heirs v. Meredith. Oct. 17, 1814. West Headnotes Courts 106 k 80(2) 106 Courts 106II Establishment, Organization, and Procedure 106II(F) Rules of Court and Conduct of Business 106k80 Matters Subject to Regulation 106k80(2) k. Admissibility of Evidence. Most Cited  Cases Courts may adopt rules for the regulation of the practice therein on points not provided for by law, but they cannot enforce a rule which will have the effect of admitting illegal evidence. Equity 150 k 194 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(B) Plea, Answer, and Disclaimer 150k194 k. Failure to Answer. Most Cited  Cases Omission of defendant to answer an allegation in the bill does not amount to an admission thereof, unless the fact alleged is charged to be within his knowledge. Equity 150 k 358 150 Equity 150VI Taking and Filing Proofs 150k358 k. Objections to Evidence. Most Cited Cases A rule of court that no exceptions shall be taken to the reading of any deposition or voucher in a chancery cause, etc., unless notice of an objection be given, does not apply to the admission of a deed in evidence without necessary proof of its execution. Evidence 157 k 370(7) 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k370 Necessity in  General 157k370(7) k. Unrecorded Instruments. Most Cited  Cases An unrecorded deed, without proof of execution, cannot be admitted as evidence. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS is a contest for land claimed under adverse titles. The defendant in error was complainant in the Court below, and derives his claim under the junior patent, but the elder entry. His claim was sustained by the decree of that Court, to reverse which the defendants have prosecuted this writ of error. Deed unrecorded, will not be admitted to show derivation of title, without proof of its execution. Previous notice that such objection will be made, unnecessary, and the rule of an inferior Court that "no exception shall be taken to the reading of any deposition or voucher in a chancery cause, etc., unless notice be given," does not apply in such case. Inferior Courts may adopt rules of practice relative to points not provided for by law, but they cannot enforce one which will have the effect of admitting illegal evidence. Omission of a defendant to answer an allegation in a bill does not amount to an admission of the fact, unless it be charged to be within his knowledge. The main point relied on is, that the Court below improperly admitted as evidence a paper purporting to be a deed of conveyance from the patentee to the complainant, without proof of its execution. To this point two answers were given in the argument--1. That no previous notice was given that such an objection would be made, and that by a rule of the inferior Court, made a part of the bill of exceptions in this case, it is provided that "no exception shall be taken to the reading of any deposition or voucher in a chancery cause, for the want of notice, or any other ceremonial in the taking or authentication, unless a notice is served on the adverse party or his counsel," etc. And secondly, that the complainant had referred to the deed and alleged its execution in his bill, and that the defendants had not denied it in their answer, and therefore it is inferred that they tacitly admitted its execution. With respect to the rule of the inferior Court, we are of opinion that according to a correct construction of its language it cannot be made to apply to a case of this kind. It plainly relates to those vouchers or instruments only which by their authentication would be evidence without proof aliunde, if there were no defect in the ceremony of their authentication. Thus, for example, if the voucher or instrument offered in evidence be a copy of a record, the attestation of which is not in due form, or is not accompanied with the seal of office or other usual ceremony of authentication, the rule in such a case would be applicable. But in the present instance, the deed offered and admitted in evidence was not of record. It was a mere private paper, without authentication, and could only be established by proof aliunde. To construe the rule to extend to a case of this sort, would render its validity extremely questionable; for although Courts may adopt rules for the regulation of the practice upon points not provided for by law, it cannot be admitted that they can enforce a rule of their own which will have the effect of permitting an instrument to be read without proof, which by the established rule of law is required to be proven. They may regulate the time and manner of producing such proof, but they cannot dispense with its necessity. It results, therefore, that the rule of the inferior Court does not afford a sufficient answer to the objection made to the reading of the deed as evidence in this case. *2 That the omission of a defendant to answer an allegation of the bill, does not amount to an admission of the fact alleged, except it be within the knowledge of the defendant, was settled in the case of Cowan v. Price (vol. 1, 173), and the rule with that exception has ever since been considered as incontrovertibly established. That this case does not come within the exception is clear; for the execution of the deed offered in evidence is not alleged to be within the knowledge of the defendants, nor can it be presumed to be, as neither they nor their ancestor were either parties or privies to the deed. We are, therefore, of opinion that the deed should not have been read as evidence without proof of its execution, and that the Court below erred in admitting it. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for proceedings to be had not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Kennedy's Heirs v. Meredith 3 Bibb 465, 6 Ky. 465, 1814 WL 829 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
