(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 157,  19 Ky. 157 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1257 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Crozier, &c. v. Young, &c. Apr. 16, 1826. *1 Stock in Corporation. Money. Frauds. Conveyances. Creditors. Trusts. Statutes. ERROR TO THE NELSON CIRCUIT; PAUL I. BOOKER, JUDGE. West Headnotes Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 24(1) 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186I Transfers and Transactions Invalid 186I(B) Nature and Form of Transfer 186k24 Transactions Subject to Attack by Creditors 186k24(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Bank stock subscribed and paid for by a father for and in the names of his children, without consideration, and while he was insolvent, is not a fraudulent conveyance, since the stock never was his property. Debtor and Creditor 117T k 11 117T Debtor and Creditor 117Tk11 k. Creditors' Suit. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 109k8(1)  Creditors' Suit) A bill by subsequent creditors cannot be maintained to subject stock, subscribed by their debtor for and in the names of his children, to payment of their claims. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This is a writ of error to a decree subjecting to sale bank stock, taken and subscribed by John Crozier, in the Centre Bank of Kentucky, in the names of his infant children, and directing the proceeds of the sale to be applied in satisfaction of debts due from him to Young, and to Grayson, &c., upon bills in chancery, filed by them for that purpose. Bill by subsequent creditors to subject stock subscribed by debtor, for and in the name of his children. The question is, whether the stock is liable to the payment of those debts? If it be liable, it must be made so, either in virtue of some statutory provision, or upon the principles of the common law. The statute against fraudulent conveyances is mainly relied on for that purpose, and we will examine the subject in relation to that statute. At the time when Crozier subscribed for the stock in the names of his children, he was evidently greatly embarrassed, and the inference may be fairly deduced from the proof which the record affords, that he was indebted to insolvency. Had he, under such circumstances, conveyed to his children, for no other consideration but that of their relation to him, any estate of any kind held by him, which was subject, or might be made subject, to the payment of his debts, the conveyance would, undoubtedly, have been deemed fraudulent and void as to his creditors, under the statute against fraudulent conveyances. But the stock in question was never held by him. He had, at no time, any property in it, either legal or equitable, and, of course, none could have been passed or conveyed from him to his children. By the subscription for the stock in their name, they became vested with the legal right to it, and they took it thereby, not from him, but from the corporation. The money, indeed, which was paid on the subscription for the stock, was his; but it is not the money paid on the subscription which is sought by his creditors to be made subject to the payment of his debts; nor could the money so paid, if such had been their object, be made liable to his debts, not only because money has, in the language of the English courts, no earmark by which it can be distinguished, but because the money paid for the stock has passed into the hands of the stockholders, who acquired it in good faith, and can not, therefore, be deprived of it rightfully, but by their consent. But it is the stock and not the money paid for the stock, which the creditors in this case are pursuing, and the stock never was his, and never was conveyed by him to his children. *2 Stock subscribed and paid for by the father, for and in the names of his children, without valuable consideration, and whilst he was indebted to insolvency, is not subject to his creditors, under the statute against fraudulent conveyances. That act applies only to alienations of property not money, before debtor's, and subject to his creditors, and makes the alienation so void, that the property may be seized and sold. Assuming this to be correct, it is obvious, the statute against fraudulent conveyances, can not, by any legal construction, be made to apply to the case; for that statute only embraces alienations or conveyances made by debtors in fraud of their creditors, and the effect of the statute is, by declaring such alienations or conveyances void as to creditors, to reinvest the property of the thing aliened or conveyed, in the debtor, and thus subject it to the payment of his debts, in the same manner as if there had been no alienation or conveyance by him. But it does not reach property which never was the debtor's, nor money in any case. ______ Nor property purchased by debtor in name of other persons. Hence it is held by the British courts, under their statute, which is, in substance, the same as ours, and from which ours has been taken, that where property is purchased by a debtor in the name of a third person, to whom the conveyance is immediately and originally taken, the case is not within the statute.--Cro. Car. 550. Roberts on Fraudulent Conveyances, 463. It is clear, therefore, that this case is not within the statute against fraudulent conveyances, and we are aware of no other statutory provision, which can be fairly applied to the case. By the 23d section of the act of 1796, regulating conveyances, estates of every kind held in trust, are made subject to the debts of those for whose benefit they are holden; and, under this provision, if a debtor should take a conveyance originally to a third person, in trust for himself, the thing so conveyed would be liable to his debts. If the trust, in such a case, be expressed on the face of the deed, the thing so conveyed would be subject to be taken and sold by an execution at law; and if the trust be a secret one, and not expressed in the conveyance, a court of equity, we apprehend, might interpose to subject it to the payment of the debts of the person for whose benefit it is held. But in this case, the subscription of the stock in question does not purport to be made in the names of Crozier's children, in trust for himself, nor is there any proof of a secret trust to that effect. It is true that Crozier did afterwards assume to exercise acts of ownership over the stock; but this was plainly an unlawful assumption of authority by him, and the bank ought not to have permitted such acts to have been done by him unless they had been done in the capacity of guardian to his children. The stock in question can not, therefore, be liable to pay Crozier's debts, in virtue of the provision of the 13th section of the act regulating conveyances. *3 The act of '96 regulating conveyances, s 23, subjects to creditors, estates held in trust for debter, (where declared, by common law process, when secret, by bill in equity,) but does not reach the case, where debtor has himself no interest. The only other statutory provision which we apprehend can be supposed to apply to the case, is that of the 6th section of the act of 1821, abolishing the ca. sa. But that section only subjects choses in action belonging to the debtor, and equitable interests to which he may be entitled, to the payment of his debts; and as the stock in question never did belong to Crozier, and he had no title to it either in law or equity, it is clear that the provision of that section can not be construed to embrace the case. Act of 1821, subjects choses in action belonging to debtor, not stock or other choses he may have purchased with his money, for and in the names of his children, for their advancement. Is, then, the stock in question liable to the payment of the debts in this case, upon the principles of the common law? We think not. To say nothing of the objection to the liability of the stock arising from the nature of the property, and assuming the subscription of the stock by Crozier, in the name of his children, to be, as it probably was intended by him, as an advancement of his children in fraud of his creditors, still we should be of opinion, that the creditors, in this case, could not avail themselves of the fraud, and subject the stock to the payment of their debts, upon the principles of the common law. Fraud is, indeed, odious to the common law, and is discountenanced by it in every shape in which it may make its appearance. But the common law does not, like the statute against fraudulent conveyances, protect the interest of subsequent as well as precedent creditors. A creditor, to be entitled to the protection of the common law, against the effect of a fraudulent transaction, must show that he had a pre-existing debt or demand; for otherwise, his rights were not supposed by the common law to be injured by the fraud. But the creditors in this case have failed to show, that they were the creditors of Crozier, when the fraudulent transaction of which they complain, took place. On the contrary, the debts which they seek to subject the stock in question to payment of, appear not to have originated until long after the subscription of the stock by Crozier, in the names of his children. The common law, unlike the statute, looked only to the right of creditors at the date of the transaction; subsequent creditors could not assail the conveyance. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that the bill be dismissed with costs. Haggin and Wickliffe, for plaintiffs. Ky.App. 1826. Crozier v. Young 3 T.B.Mon. 157, 19 Ky. 157, 1826 WL 1257 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
