(Cite as: 4 Litt. 160,  14 Ky. 160 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1245 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jouitt and Moseby v. Lewis' Adm'rs. Oct. 15, 1823. *1 FROM THE GREENUP CIRCUIT COURT. THE HON. E. SHORTRIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Turnpikes and Toll Roads 391 k 23 391 Turnpikes and Toll Roads 391I Establishment, Construction, and Maintenance 391k23 k. Sale and Transfer of Road. Most Cited Cases The lessees of a turnpike road are liable to their lessors on a covenant to keep the road in repair (the lessors being bound to do so by contract with the government), without a showing that the lessors had been sued, or otherwise damnified, in consequence of the road being out of repair, and their responsibility to the state. Turnpikes and Toll Roads 391 k 23 391 Turnpikes and Toll Roads 391I Establishment, Construction, and Maintenance 391k23 k. Sale and Transfer of Road. Most Cited Cases In an action by lessors of a turnpike road (bound by contract with the state to keep the road in repair), against their lessees, for breach of covenant in the lease to keep the road in repair, the measure of damages is the injury sustained by the public by the road being out of repair. Appeal and Error 30 k 252 30 Appeal and Error 30V Presentation and Reservation in Lower Court of Grounds of Review 30V(C) Exceptions 30k252 k. Review of Rulings as to Pleadings. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 30k255) If exception is not taken in the inferior court to giving leave to amend a declaration, and to withdraw the amendment, advantage cannot be taken of it in the court of appeals. TAUL and TRIPLETT for plaintiffs; BRECKINRIDGE and M'CONNELL for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action of covenant, brought by Lewis' administrators against Jouitt, Moseby and Stewart. The declaration recites, in substance, that Lewis, in his lifetime, purchased from the state the privilege of erecting and keeping, for the term of twenty years, a turnpike on the public road leading from the mouth of Triplett to the mouth of Big Sandy, on his executing bond to put and keep the road in repair; that he put the road in repair, and erected the turnpike; and that after his death his administrators sold the residue of the term, being sixteen years, commencing the first of January, 1815, to Jouitt at the price of $400 per annum. The declaration then alleges, that Jouitt, together with the other defendants as his sureties, by their deed, covenanted to keep the said administrators and their securities harmless, and to keep the said road in the necessary repair; and assigns for a breach of their covenant, that the said defendants did not keep and perform their covenant, but broke the same, in this, to wit, that they did not well and truly keep the said road in the necessary repair; but the same was, and remained out of the necessary repair, from the _____ day of ______ 18--, until the commencement of this suit, to the damage of the plaintiffs $5,000. *2 The lessees of a turnpike road are liable to suit by their lessors, on a covenant to keep the road in repair, (the lessors being bound so to do, by contract with the government), without showing that the lessors had been sued or otherwise damnified, in consequence of the road's being out of repair, and their responsibility to the state. Pending the suit, the plaintiffs filed an amendment to their declaration, stating other covenants on the part of the defendants, and alleging breaches therein; but the amendment was afterwards withdrawn. The writ being executed upon Jouitt and Moseby, and returned, as to Stewart, no inhabitant, by the sheriff of Greenup county, where the suit was brought, the action was abated as to the latter; and the two former not appearing, judgment by default was taken against them; and on a writ of inquiry, the jury found $3,000 damages. The defendant, Jouitt, then moved the court to set aside the inquest and award a new inquiry, on the ground that the damages were excessive; but the court overruled the motion, and the defendants excepted; and a judgment being rendered against them for the damages assessed by the jury, they have brought the case to this court. In such case, the measure of damages will be the injury the public has sustained by the road's being out of repair; and the amount of that injury being matter of opinion, the damages assessed by the jury must be outrageous, to authorize granting a new trial on that ground. By the assignment of errors several objections are taken, which we will notice in the order they occur in the history we have given of the case. The first objection is taken to the sufficiency of the declaration. The declaration alleges two covenants on the part of the defendants; the first, to keep the plaintiffs harmless or indemnified, and the second, to keep the road in repair; and the objection taken to the declaration is, that an action would not lie upon the former, until the plaintiffs were damnified by suit, which is not alleged. Whether an action could be sustained upon this covenant, without such an allegation, is, however, a point not necessary to be decided; for there is no breach alleged of this covenant, nor was it necessary to do so, in order to maintain the action for the breach of the covenant to keep the road in repair; for, how numerous soever the covenants contained in the same deed and stated in the declaration, may be, the plaintiff undoubtedly may allege a breach in one or more of them, as he pleases, and recover therefor, without alleging a breach of the others. The covenant to keep the road in repair, created a positive duty on the part of the defendants, for a breach of which the plaintiffs had a right to recover, without waiting until they should be damnified by suit; and as this covenant and its breach are sufficiently alleged, the declaration must be deemed good. In an action of covenant, the plaintiff may assign breaches on as many, and on as few of the covenants contained in the deed, as he pleases. *3 If exception is not taken in the inferior court, to giving leave to amend a declaration and to withdraw the amendment, advantage can not be taken of it in the court of appeals. The second objection which occurs, is to the plaintiff's being permitted to file their amendment to the declaration, and afterwards to withdraw it. There was no exception taken in the circuit court, to the plaintiffs' being permitted to do this, and it is clearly too late now, for the first time, to make the objection. But, in truth, we can perceive no ground for the objection, if even it had been made in proper time. It is always in the discretion of a court, pending the action, to permit the plaintiff to amend his declaration, taking care that the amendment does not work a prejudice to the defendant; and, in this case, no prejudice is shown to have been done to the defendants, either in filing or withdrawing the amendment. And even if exception is taken, it will avail the defendant nothing, unless he shows that he sustained some injury in consequence of it. The third objection is taken to entering the abatement as to the defendant who was returned no inhabitant, and proceeding against the others. This objection is entitled to no weight. The proceedings were perfectly correct, being in strict conformity to the provisions of the act of assembly of 1811. The fourth and last objection to be noticed, is taken to the refusal of the circuit court to set the verdict of the jury aside, and to award a new inquest. The exception to this opinion of the court contains the evidence given to the jury, from which it appears that the road, for twelve months before the commencement of this suit, was suffered by the defendants to remain in very bad repair; so much so, that it was impassable by wagons. This was unquestionably a breach of their covenant, for which they ought to be made liable for damages; but what should be the extent of those damages, is a matter of more uncertainty. It would seem, that the keeping the road in repair was for the public convenience; and as the plaintiffs have no peculiar interest, but that which arises from their liability to the public, the loss or inconvenience sustained by the public should be the extent of their right to recover. But the inconvenience sustained by the public is not susceptible of any definite admeasurement, and the damages, therefore, must be, in a great degree, mere matter of opinion, and of course to be liquidated by the discretion of the jury. In such case, unless the damages given by a jury be flagrantly and outrageously high, the court ought not to interfere, on the ground of the damages being excessive; and this does not appear to be a case of that character. Judgment affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1823. Jouitt v. Lewis' Adm'rs 4 Litt. 160, 14 Ky. 160, 1823 WL 1245 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
