(Cite as: 3 Bibb 490,  6 Ky. 490 (Ky.),  1814 WL 842 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Kennedy v. the Commonwealth. Oct. 26, 1814. West Headnotes Indictment and Information 210 k 86(1) 210 Indictment and Information 210V Requisites and Sufficiency of Accusation 210k86 Place of Offense 210k86(1) k. Necessity of Statement of Place of Venue. Most  Cited Cases The want of a sufficient venue is a substantial defect in the indictment. Indictment and Information 210 k 86(2) 210 Indictment and Information 210V Requisites and Sufficiency of Accusation 210k86 Place of Offense 210k86(2) k. Sufficiency in General. Most Cited  Cases Where an indictment for an assault alleged that defendant "then and there did," etc., but no place or venue was otherwise laid, except that the county was named in the margin, it was held that the venue was not sufficiently laid. Indictment and Information 210 k 86(7) 210 Indictment and Information 210V Requisites and Sufficiency of Accusation 210k86 Place of Offense 210k86(7) k. Aider by Reference to Previous Recitals. Most  Cited Cases An indictment for an assault, charging that defendant "then and there did," etc., does not refer to the county in the margin, so as to lay a sufficient venue. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS is a writ of error to a judgment for a fine in behalf of the Commonwealth against the plaintiff in error upon an indictment for trespass assault and battery. The error assigned is, that there is no place or venue laid in the indictment where the offense is charged to have been committed. Indictment for an assault, venue laid that the defendant 'then and there did,' etc., does not refer to the county in the margin. The indictment charges that the plaintiff in error "did with force and arms, etc., make an assault in and upon one William Woods, laborer, on the ____ day of ____ 1812, and then and there did with force and arms beat, wound," etc. On the part of the Commonwealth it is contended that the word "there," as used in the latter part of this charge, refers to the county mentioned in the margin of the indictment; and thus by relation fixes the place where the offense was committed with sufficient certainty and precision. It is true where the offense is alleged to have been committed in the county aforesaid, this expression will have reference to the county in the margin, without naming it; and where the place is once mentioned in the body of the indictment, or ascertained by words of plain relation to the county named in the margin, the word there in the subsequent part of the indictment will refer to it and be sufficient without again naming the place or county where the offense was committed. The authorities referred to on the part of the Commonwealth abundantly establish this doctrine, but they do not support the position that the word there will refer to the county named in the margin, where it has not been repeated in the body of the indictment. Indeed an inference diametrically opposite to this position is clearly deducible from some of these authorities: for it is said to be holden that the want of an express allegation of the place where the offense happened, is not supplied by putting it in the margin of the indictment, unless it go farther, as by adding in comitatu predicto or the like--3 Bac. Abr. 550--2 Haw. P. C. ch. 25 s 34. In this case the obvious relation of the word there in the charge of committing the battery, is to the place where the assault was made; and as there is evidently no place alleged where the assault was made, either expressly or by any words of implication or reference, it results that there is no place named to which the word there can relate. That the want of a venue is a substantial defect in the indictment cannot be doubted. It is held to be so in England, because the grand jury are sworn to inquire for the body of the county, and therefore cannot regularly by the common law present any offense which does not arise within the county for which they are returned. The same reason holds here, and is fortified by the consideration that the Courts themselves have no jurisdiction over offenses committed out of their respective circuits.--Judgment reversed. Ky.App. 1814. Kennedy v. Com. 3 Bibb 490, 6 Ky. 490, 1814 WL 842 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
