(Cite as: 4 Litt. 232,  14 Ky. 232 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1261 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Smith v. Hornback. Oct. 20, 1823. *1 FROM THE BOURBON CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 123(2) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k123 Operation as Tenancy from Year to Year, Month to Month, or  at Will, of Estate or Interest Created Without Writing 185k123(2) k. Tenancy from year to year. Most Cited  Cases Parol permission to enter and occupy land cannot, under the statute of frauds, convey an interest for a longer term than one year. Landlord and Tenant 233 k 704 233 Landlord and Tenant 233IV Particular Kinds of Tenancies and Attributes Thereof 233IV(A) Nature and Extent 233IV(A)3 Tenancies at Will and at Sufferance 233k703 Creation of Tenancy at  Will 233k704 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k118(1)) Where the plaintiff takes possession under a judgment in ejectment, after the expiration of the demise laid in the declaration, consent to such possession, given by the defendant without a knowledge of the extinction of the plaintiff's right, will only make the plaintiff tenant at will, or for one year, where plaintiff had, after entering on the land, inclosed and sowed it. Limitation of Actions 241 k 130(1) 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(H) Commencement of Proceeding;  Relation Back 241k130 New Action After Dismissal or Nonsuit or Failure of  Former Action 241k130(1) k. In general. Most Cited  Cases A judgment in ejectment, never executed, and under which possession has never been surrendered, does not stop the running of the statute of limitations. Adverse Possession 20 k 46.1 20 Adverse Possession 20I Nature and Requisites 20I(E) Duration and Continuity of Possession 20k46 Interruption of Possession 20k46.1 k. In general. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 20k46) A mere judgment in ejectment does not suspend the operation of the statute of limitations. HARDIN for Smith; TALBOT for Hornback. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action of trespass quare clausum fregit. Not guilty was pleaded, with leave to give the special matter in evidence. On the trial it appeared that a judgment in ejectment had been recovered many years ago against Daniel Hornback, for the recovery of land including the place on which the trespass is alleged to have been committed; that the plaintiff in this case claims title by a conveyance from the lessor of the plaintiff in the ejectment; that Daniel Hornback having died, Polly Hornback, one of the defendants in this case, and the widow of Daniel Hornback, together with others, as his representatives, claiming under the title of Reed, filed their bill with injunction to stay proceedings upon the judgment in ejectment; that the injunction had been dissolved as to the land on which the trespass is alleged to have been committed; that Polly Hornback had afterwards assented to the plaintiff's taking possession thereof, who thereupon, by removing some old fencing, and with some new rails enclosed the place where the trespass is alleged to have been committed, and sowed it in grain; that Polly Hornback had a conveyance from Reed, under whose title she and those under whom she claimed, had been in possession for more than twenty years prior to the time when the plaintiff took possession; and that shortly thereafter, it being discovered that the demise in the declaration in ejectment had expired before the plaintiff entered, the defendants, while the plaintiff's crop of grain was growing, entered upon the land enclosed by him, removed the fence to its old situation, and reaped the crop which the plaintiff had sowed. *2 A judgment in ejectment, never executed, and under which possession has never been surrendered, does not stop the running of the statute of limitations. A possession taken under a judgment in ejectment, after the expiration of the demise laid in the declaration, without the assent of the defendant, is a trespass. Consent given by a defendant, without a knowledge of these facts and of the consequent extinction of right in the plaintiff in ejectment, would make the plaintiff tenant at will or for one year. On this state of case, the court, on the motion of the defendants, instructed the jury, that if Polly Hornback had been twenty years in possession before the plaintiff got the possession, the right was in her, and she might peaceably enter upon the land and retake the possession and remove the fence, unless she had given the plaintiff permission to enter before that time; and that if she was ignorant at the time she assented to the plaintiff's possession, that the demise had expired, and of her right in consequence thereof, her assent should not bind her. To the giving of these instructions the plaintiff excepted, and a verdict and judgment having been rendered against him, he has brought the case to this court by writ of error. The statute against frauds and perjuries would prevent its doing more; but the ignorance of the defendant, of his own right in the plaintiff, would not render the entry void, ab initio. Of the correctness of the first branch of the instructions given by the circuit court, we have no doubt. The possession of land for twenty years operates under the statute of limitations, not only to toll the right of entry of all adverse claimants, laboring under no disability; but to give to the party who has been so possessed, in case he should be ousted of the possession, a right to regain it by peacefully entering upon the land, or of recovering it in an action of ejectment. Nor does the judgment in ejectment in this case, change the effect of the lapse of time; for the judgment could only give a right to enter during the continuance of the demise laid in the declaration, for which the judgment was rendered, and, of course, after the demise had expired, the right to enter upon the land in virtue of the judgment, no longer existed. Difference between void and voidable. But with respect to the second branch of the instructions given by the circuit court, we can not accord with that court. The permission given by Polly Hornback to the plaintiff, to enter upon and occupy the land, certainly could not extinguish her right or transfer the freehold to the plaintiff; for the permission being merely verbal, could not, under the statute against frauds and perjuries, operate to transfer an interest for a longer term than for one year; but if her assent to his taking the possession of the land, and occupying it, had been given with a full knowledge of her right, it would have been binding upon her, and would have legalized his occupancy of the land for one year. *3 This seems, indeed, to be presupposed in the instruction given by the circuit court; for the instruction is predicated upon the hypothesis, that she was ignorant of her right. But we can not admit that an ignorance or mistake of her right, can have the effect of rendering her assent entirely void, ab initio. An agreement superintended by mistake or fraud, is not void, but voidable only; and hence it is, that the party who is prejudiced by such an agreement, may, at his election, affirm or avoid the agreement, and the other party can not do so; whereas, if it were void and not merely voidable, it could not be affirmed at the election of one party, and might be treated as a mere nullity by either. If, then, the defendant's agreement that the plaintiff should take possession and occupy the land, be not absolutely void, but voidable only, it can not be said not to be binding upon her to any extent; for until she elected to avoid it, it would remain binding upon both parties, and as she made no such election until he had entered upon the land and enclosed and sowed it, he thereby became her tenant at will, which is equivalent to being a tenant for the year, and though she might determine her will, he could not, by the sudden determination of her will, during the year, be deprived of his right to reap the crop which he had sowed. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded that the verdict may be set aside, and a new trial had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Smith v. Hornback 4 Litt. 232, 14 Ky. 232, 1823 WL 1261 (Ky.), 14 Am.Dec. 122 END OF DOCUMENT
