(Cite as: 4 Bibb 139,  7 Ky. 139 (Ky.),  1815 WL 693 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Smith v. Dobbins. May 29, 1815. *1 A call to adjoin Mary and Robert Dobbins will beunderstood to adjoin separate claims in the name of each, unless they had a joint claim. An entry calling to run to include an improvement, invalid, because the improvement was not proved. To adjoin M. and R.--R. had three claims in that vicinity, so that by adjoining M. in such manner as to adjoin the one or the other of the surveys of R, the survey would include no land common to each, the entry is invalid. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A call to adjoin A. and B. was held to be a call to adjoin separate claims in the name of each, no joint claim being shown;  and, as the entry could not be surveyed so as to adjoin the two claims and include the land in controversy, the entry was held invalid. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THE appellant having obtained a patent from the Commonwealth in virtue of a survey upon a removed certificate granted under the laws of this State brought an ejectment and recovered a judgment against the appellee. To enjoin proceedings upon which, the appellee filed his bill, alleging that he had a prior and better right under a certificate granted to William Dobbins for 200 acres, which calls to lie "on Eddycreek, adjoining Maryand Robert Dobbins, running as the law directs for complement." The appellant by his answer called in question as well the validity of the certificate, for want of sufficient certainty in its description of the land intended to be appropriated by it, as the derivation of the appellee's title to it. On a final hearing the Court below pronounced a decree in favor of the appellee, from which the appellant has prosecuted this appeal. We shall first examine the objection to the validity of the certificate for want of certainty in its description. The call for "Mary and Robert Dobbins, ought to be construed, as no doubt it would be understood in common acceptation, to be equivalent to a call for their land. The idea suggested at the bar that this call should be taken to relate to a joint claim in both their names, might have been correct if any such claim had been shown; but as there is none such shown, and they had claims which they held in severalty, the call must be taken to relate to the latter. But to support the certificate in question, it is not only necessary to show that such claims exist in the names of Mary and Robert Dobbins, but they should be identified with the description given in the certificate, and their position be ascertained with precision. It appears that Mary Dobbins had a survey upon a certificate for 200 acres upon Eddy creek, the lines of which are proven to have been generally known in its vicinity, at and prior to the date of the certificate in question. Her survey, therefore, was a good object of description; and as she is not shown to have had at that time any other claim, it must be presumed to be the one intended by the call in the certificate for Mary Dobbins. But on what side of her survey, or to what extent the certificate should adjoin, can only be determined by ascertaining the identity and the position of the claim of Robert Dobbins, which is also required to be adjoined. Robert Dobbins, however, had no less than three claims on Eddy creek and its waters at the date of the certificate in question. One of these was a survey in his name, as assignee of John Pounds, for 200 acres; another was an entry in his name as assignee of James Bell, upon a certificate for 100 acres and the third was a certificate granted to himself for 200 acres. Whatever may be the position given to either of these claims, to adjoin any one of them would require the certificate in question to occupy ground different from what it would do if it were to adjoin either of the others; and as either of them would satisfy the call for Robert Dobbins, the certificate is on this ground vague and uncertain. But if either could be selected as the one intended in preference to the others, still the certificate could not be supported for the land in contest. Taking the survey in the name of Robert Dobbins as assignee of Pounds, as the claim intended to be adjoined, would place the certificate entirely off the land in contest, inasmuch as that survey is on the opposite side of Mary Dobbins; and by no possibility could the certificate be surveyed so as to adjoin those two claims, and include the land in controversy. Neither of the other claims of Robert Dobbins had been surveyed, and consequently their positions can only be ascertained by reference to the objects called for in their locations. Each of them has a call so to run as to include an improvement, but neither of the improvements is established by the testimony, or even delineated upon the connected plat; and according to the uniformFN(a) current of decisions for many years past, in the absence of proof of the situation of the improvements, as the ground which ought to be occupied by the claims cannot be known, they cannot be supported; and the certificate in question therefore, if either of those claims could be selected as the one intended, would nevertheless be vague and uncertain. FN(a). Vide, Neale v. Galloway, vol. 1, 137. *2 As the certificate cannot be supported for want of certainty in its description of the land intended to be granted, it is unnecessary to inquire into the derivation of the appellee's title. The decree must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that the bill may be dismissed with cost. Ky.App. 1815. Smith v. Dobbins 4 Bibb 139, 7 Ky. 139, 1815 WL 693 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
