(Cite as: 3 Bibb 324,  6 Ky. 324 (Ky.),  1814 WL 776 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Peebles v. Stephens. May 19, 1814. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 112(1) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400III Modification or Rescission of Contract 400III(C) Rescission by Purchaser 400k106 Right to Rescind 400k112 Defect in Title of  Vendor 400k112(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 341(5) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VII Remedies of Purchaser 400VII(A) Recovery of Purchase Money Paid 400k341 Proceedings 400k341(5) k. Amount and Items of Recovery. Most Cited  Cases A. sold land to B., representing it clear of dispute, except a small part.  A. sued B. for payment, and B. brought his bill for relief from the judgment and a rescission of the contract. It appeared that the land was covered by two adverse claims, which A. had not disclosed at the time of sale. Held, that the contract must be rescinded, notwithstanding B. had a bond of indemnity of A.'s grantor; that said bond should be given up;  that possession of the land should be restored to A.;  that B. should account for the rents and profits while he held, deducting the value of his improvements;  and that A. should repay to B. the sum paid as part price for the land, with interest at 6 per cent. from the time of payment. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 CALK sold to Poage 200 acres of land, for which he gave his bonds, conditioned to convey, with a covenant to refund, at the rate of two dollars per acre, if the whole or any part of the land should be lost. Stephens having purchased from Poage and taken an assignment of Calk's bonds without recourse to Poage, sold to Peebles and assigned to him the bonds upon Calk, for which Peebles agreed to give 1000l.;i 400il. of which he paid, and executed his obligation for the payment of the balance in one and two years. Upon these obligations Stephens brought suits and recovered judgments at law; to stay proceeding upon which, Peebles filed this bill. He alleges that Stephens fraudulently represented the land to be clear of dispute, except in a small part by a claim of very inferior dignity, when in fact he well knew that there were several other interferences with elder patents, which covered the whole, or the greater part of the land. He prays for a rescission of the contract, a repayment of the amount advanced by him, and an injunction to stay proceedings upon the judgment at law. Stephens in his answer admits in substance the terms of the contract as stated in the bill, but insists that the contract on his part was fair and without fraud, and denies that he knew of any interference except with the claim of which he informed Peebles prior to his purchase. Contract for the sale and purchase of a tract of land rescinded because the vendor knew it was covered by two adverse claims and elder patents and did not disclose the fact. Upon a final hearing the Court below dissolved the injunction and dismissed the bill with damages and costs. From that decree Peebles has prosecuted this appeal. In deciding whether the contract in this case was fraudulent or not, we shall not take into consideration the interfering claim of which the appellant was informed by the appellee previous to entering into the contract; for although the representation made by the appellee as to the nature and extent of that claim, was not perhaps perfectly correct, yet as the testimony upon this point is but vague and inconclusive, we would not think it sufficient to avoid the contract, if it were in no other respects unexceptionable. But the fact is incontrovertibly established, that the balance of the tract which was the subject of the contract, and indeed almost the entire tract, is covered by two other adverse patents, elder than that of Calk, under whom the appellee derives his title. That he knew of the existence of these claims anterior to the contract in question is, notwithstanding the denial of it in his answer, very satisfactorily proven. Two witnesses, whose characters are unimpeached, depose to the fact; and their testimony is not only uncontradicted by any other evidence in the cause, but is strongly fortified by the nature of the transaction and the circumstances of the case. Whether the appellee actually represented the tract sold as being clear of such interferences, or knowing of them concealed them from the appellant, is not material: for the suppression of the truth is, as well as the suggestion of the falsehood, sufficient to vitiate a contract. The former as well as the latter is a violation of the principles of good faith. It proceeds from the same motives and is attended with the same consequences; and the motives and consequences of an action are the only criteria of its merits or demerits, both in law and in ethics. That the appellee did not disclose to the appellant these interferences, is evident. He does not even allege that he did so: on the contrary, he denies, in opposition to what the evidence establishes to be the fact, that he himself knew of their existence. The inference is therefore clear that he did not make such a disclosure to the appellant. If it had been made, we cannot doubt that it would have totally prevented the contract, or essentially changed its terms; for no rational or prudent man would give the same for a tract of land covered with elder patents held by adverse claimants, that he would if it were not subject to such incumbrances. *2 The circumstance that the appellant agreed to look to Calk for his indemnity in case the land should be lost, can certainly afford no excuse to the appellee for concealing the interfering claims. This circumstance, as the indemnity provided is evidently a very inadequate one, only proves, at the same time that the fact of concealment is rendered more probable, that it is more prejudicial to the appellant. Good faith is essential to the validity of all contracts. No less so in contracts where the vendee undertakes to risk the title, than in contracts of a different description. We are therefore of opinion that the contract should be rescinded, the assignment from the appellee to the appellant canceled, the bonds upon Calk given up, and the possession of the tract of land restored to the appellee; that the appellant account for the rents and profits of the land while he shall have had the possession thereof, deducting therefrom the value of such lasting and valuable improvements as he may have made thereon; and that the appellee repay to the appellant the sum paid by him as a part price of the land, with interest thereon at the rate of six per cent. per annum from the time of payment; and that the injunction to stay proceedings upon the judgments at law be made perpetual. The decree of the Court below must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that a decree may be entered agreeably to the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Peebles v. Stephens 3 Bibb 324, 6 Ky. 324, 1814 WL 776 (Ky.), 6 Am.Dec. 660 END OF DOCUMENT
