(Cite as: 4 Litt. 218,  14 Ky. 218 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1258 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Rees v. Lawless. Oct. 18, 1823. *1 FROM THE WARREN CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. H. P. BRODNAX SOLE JUDGE. BIBB for appellant; SHARP and MONROE for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action of ejectment on the demise of Lawless against Rees. On the trial in the circuit court, Lawless produced in evidence a patent from the Commonwealth to William Croghan, and a deed from Croghan to himself, bearing date on the ______ day of June, 1820, including the land in controversy. A bill in chancery is not evidence, even against the complainant in the bill. Rees offered in evidence, the record of a suit in chancery, brought by Lawless against Croghan, to obtain a conveyance of the land in controversy, and a copy of a paper purporting to be a deed from Croghan to Abraham Rhaimer, bearing date the 22d of June, 1796, for the land in controversy, and other papers, showing a deduction of title from Rhaimer to himself; all of which were rejected by the court, to which Rees excepted, and a verdict and judgment having been rendered against him, he has appealed to this court. A decree in equity is not evidence against those who were not parties to it. The first question which occurs, is, whether the circuit court erred in rejecting the record of the suit in chancery, as evidence. The record consists of the bill filed by Lawless, Croghan's answer, and the decree that Croghan should convey the land to Lawless. The bill was evidently not admissible; for it is well settled, that as the allegations of a bill are, in general, the mere suggestions of counsel, they can not be taken as true against the complainant. And it is equally clear, that the decree was inadmissible; for, against Rees, who offered it in evidence, being no party to the suit, the decree could not have been admitted, and the rule, is, that a judgment or decree can not be evidence in favor of any one, against whom it can not be used. The answer of Croghan, is, no doubt, admissible evidence against him; and as Lawless derives title under Croghan subsequent to the filling of the answer, it ought, so far as it contains any admissions or confessions, which are competent to prove any material fact in controversy, to be considered as admissible against Lawless. In his bill, Lawless derives title through a deed made by Croghan to Rhaimer, bearing date the 22d of June, 1796, which he alleges was never recorded, and has been lost or destroyed. Croghan, in his answer, admits the execution of the deed by him to Rhaimer; but does not admit that it has been destroyed. It is this same deed, under which Rees attempts to deduce title, and, of course, it sproof might be material. For this purpose, the admission in Croghan's answer would be competent, if the deed were without a subscribing witness, and its loss or destruction sufficiently established. But its loss or destruction is not admitted by Croghan, nor is there any other proof of the fact; and the execution of a deed can never be proved, not even by the subscribing witness, the best of all evidence for that purpose, unless the deed be produced, or its absence sufficiently accounted for. This being, then, the only material fact which Croghan's answer tended to prove, and being incompetent for that purpose, it, as well as the bill and decree, were inadmissible, and the whole record of the suit in chancery, was properly rejected by the circuit court. *2 An answer in chancery is evidence against the respondent, and against his vendee, deriving title by purchase after the answer filed. But the admission of the execution of a deed, without admitting its loss or destruction, will not furnish such evidence of the existence of the deed, as will justify a decree based on the fact of its having been executed. Proof of the genuineness of a private copy of an unrecorded deed, will avail nothing, unless proof is made of the execution of the deed itself, and of its loss or destruction. The next question which occurs, relates to the rejection of the copy of the deed from Croghan to Rhaimer. This was not a copy of an enrolled deed, and as such entitled to be read; but a mere copy of a private paper, and, of course, was inadmissible; 1st, because there was no proof of its being a true copy; 2dly, because there was no proof of the original; and 3dly, because the loss or destruction of the original, was not proved. The circuit court was correct, therefore, in rejecting it. With respect to the other papers offered in evidence by Rees, for the purpose of deducing a title from Rhaimer to himself, as there was a total failure to show any title in Rhaimer, they were, of course, properly rejected by the circuit court, on the ground of their irrelevancy. The judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Rees v. Lawless 4 Litt. 218, 14 Ky. 218, 1823 WL 1258 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
