(Cite as: 2 Bibb 595,  5 Ky. 595 (Ky.),  1812 WL 641 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Coleman v. Edwards. Spring Term, 1812. *1 In scire facias upon a judgment against two, the plaintiff cannot discontinue as to one, and take judgment against the other. West Headnotes Pretrial Procedure 307A k 504 307A Pretrial Procedure 307AIII Dismissal 307AIII(A) Voluntary Dismissal 307Ak504 k. Dismissal as to part of parties in general. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 128k25  Dismissal and Nonsuit) Where several defendants are sued on a joint obligation, a discontinuance as to one is a discontinuance as to all. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge WALLACE absent. COLEMAN sued out a scire facias to revive a judgment against John Edwards, as principal, and Amos Edwards his appearance bail. It was returned executed upon Amos Edwards, and not found as to John Edwards. Amos Edwards appeared and plead in bar, that Coleman by deed had agreed with John Edwards, to receive in discharge of the judgment, property upon certain terms and events therein specified. Coleman discontinued the scire facias as to John Edwards, and demurred to the plea filed by Amos Edwards. Upon the demurrer the Court below gave judgment that the scire facias be quashed; to which Coleman has prosecuted this writ of error. Upon very obvious principles the plea filed by Amos Edwards was defective, and Coleman would have been entitled to a judgment in his favor upon the demurrer, had the proceedings upon his part been correct. But they were not so. The judgment upon which the scire facias was sued out was a joint one, and in such a case the scire facias could only have been jointly sued against both the defendants--See 2 Tidd's Prac. 1008, 2 Salk. 598. Where a joint action is thus required by law to be had against several, it cannot be discontinued or a nolle prosequi be entered as to one, unless it be for matter operating in his personal discharge without discharging the others. The discontinuance as to John Edwards was therefore a discharge as to Amos Edwards and had a judgment been rendered upon the demurrer in favor of Coleman upon a writ of error we should have been bound to reverse it, and to give the same judgment which the Court below has in this case given.--Judgment affirmed, with costs. Ky.App. 1812. Coleman v. Edwards 2 Bibb 595, 5 Ky. 595, 1812 WL 641 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
