(Cite as: 4 Litt. 11,  14 Ky. 11 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1221 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lee v. Banks. Oct. 7, 1823. *1 FROM THE GENERAL COURT. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 89 275 New Trial 275II Grounds 275II(G) Surprise, Accident, Inadvertence, or Mistake 275k89 k. Evidence in General. Most Cited  Cases The rejection of a deposition taken de bene esse, where there was no evidence of the inability of the witness to attend at the trial, is not a sufficient case of suprise to support a motion for a new trial. Appeal and Error 30 k 1002 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(I) Questions of Fact, Verdicts, and Findings 30XVI(I)2 Verdicts 30k1002 k. On Conflicting Evidence. Most Cited  Cases Jury's verdict or finding on conflicting evidence will not be disturbed in the absence of legal error. HAGGIN for appellant; MONROE and SHARP for appellee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This is an appeal taken by the defendant from a judgment rendered for the plaintiff, in an action of assumpsit upon the warranty of the soundness of a horse. The court of appeals will not award a new trial, on the ground that the verdict was not supported by evidence, when there was evidence from which the jury might infer the facts material to their verdict. The rejection of a deposition taken de bene esse, when there was no evidence of the inability of the witness to attend at the trial, is not a sufficient case of surprise to support a motion for a new trial. The only error assigned, is, in the refusal of the court below to grant a new trial. The new trial was asked for on the grounds, 1st. that the verdict was contrary to evidence; 2d. that the defendant was surprised by the rejection of a deposition offered by him to be read on the trial. The first of these grounds was clearly untenable. The evidence very satisfactorily proved the warranty of the soundness of the horse sold by the defendant to the plaintiff, and although the evidence with respect to the unsoundness of the horse at the time of the sale, was not so convincing, yet it was of a character from which the jury might infer the fact, and in such a case, this court has invariably refused to interfere for the purpose of awarding a new trial, in opposition to the opinion of the inferior court. The second ground for the new trial, is no less untenable. The defendant swore that he was surprised by the rejection of the deposition; but that alone was not sufficient to entitle him to a new trial, on the ground of surprise. He should, moreover, have shown, that there was some reasonable cause of surprise, and this he wholly failed to do; for the deposition appears to have been taken without the slightest pretext for it, the witness being in the county and able to attend the trial, and no suggestion made that he had designed to leave the state. At the rejection of a deposition thus taken, no one of the most ordinary diligence and attention to his business, could have been surprised. *2 The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1823. Lee v. Banks 4 Litt. 11, 14 Ky. 11, 1823 WL 1221 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
