(Cite as: 4 Bibb 272,  7 Ky. 272 (Ky.),  1815 WL 770 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Breckenridge v. Hoke. Dec. 8, 1815. *1 Complainant sets up as excuse for not defending at law, that sheriff told him he had a writ, but did not show it; the excuse declared unsatisfactory. A vendee who enjoys the estate and withholds the purchase money until a dispute in the title is adjusted, ought to pay interest. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 172 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400IV Performance of Contract 400IV(D) Payment of Purchase Money 400k172 k. Interest and Expenses. Most Cited  Cases A. owed B. a balance for the sale of land, but refused to pay until some adverse claims were quieted.  B. obtained a decree against said claims, and demanded payment, with interest. Held, that A. could not enjoy the land and profits without paying the interest on the purchase money. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. BRECKENRIDGE bought of Hoke a tract of land, for which he agreed to pay a considerable sum. Hoke conveyed and delivered possession, and Breckenridge made sundry partial payments, but declined paying the balance until an interference with a part of the tract by an adverse claim was adjusted. Hoke, at his own expense, instituted suit against the adverse claimants, and obtained a decree establishing his right, and then demanded payment of the residue of the price, with the interest which had accrued. Breckenridge was willing to pay the principal, but not the interest; and Hoke agreed, after some altercation upon the subject, to accept the principal, and gave a receipt for $500, "the balance of the contract," that being the amount of the principal then unpaid; but at the same time insisted upon his right to the interest, and declared that he would coerce the payment of it if the law would afford him the means to do so. He accordingly brought suit upon the contract and recovered judgment at law for the amount of the interest. To enjoin proceedings upon which, and obtain a new trial at law, Breckenridge filed his bill in chancery, alleging as an excuse for not having made defense, that the writ was not legally served, the sheriff not having required bail of him as he was directed by the writ, telling him only that he had such a writ and would show it to him at some other time; that he was absent when the cause was tried on a peregrination through some of the neighboring counties, and that when he returned, though before the term had expired, the Court, contrary to his expectation, had gone through the docket and adjourned. Hoke in his answer does not admit any of the facts alleged as an excuse for failing to make defense on the trial at law, and insists upon his right to recover the interest. The Court below dismissed the bill, from which Breckenridge has appealed to this Court. The excuse offered by Breckenridge for not making a defense when the cause was tried, is certainly a very flimsy one. But were it otherwise, the defense he proposes to make would not, from its nature, entitle him to the aid of a Court of Equity. There can be no doubt that in equity and good conscience Hoke is entitled to the interest as well as the principal. He had fully executed the contract on his part by conveying the title and delivering possession of the land sold, and for aught that appears to the contrary Breckenridge had continued to enjoy it without interruption or molestation from any one. After having received a conveyance, Breckenridge could not, according to the principles of either law or equity, rightfully refuse the payment of the principal, on account of the interference of the adverse claim, unless it had been fraudulently concealed by Hoke, or Breckenridge had been evicted or disturbed by it; and there is no suggestion that either was the case. *2 The bringing of the suit, therefore, to settle or quiet the adverse claim, was supererogation on the part of Hoke. It was more than he was bound to do before he had a right to demand the payment of the price. But admitting that he was bound to settle the adverse claim, still as Breckenridge was in the meantime in the enjoyment of the land and its profits, he could not also be entitled to the enjoyment of the price, without accounting for the interest. To permit him to do so, would be unequal, and therefore not equitable; and most assuredly a Court of Equity cannot, consistent with the principles by which it is invariably governed, give its aid to enable a party to make a defense which is not equitable. The decree must be affirmed with costs and damages upon the damages. Ky.App. 1815. Breckenridge v. Hoke 4 Bibb 272, 7 Ky. 272, 1815 WL 770 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
