(Cite as: 4 Litt. 16,  14 Ky. 16 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1223 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mudd v. Carrico. Oct. 8, 1823. *1 FROM THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. HENRY DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 415 150 Equity 150X Decree and Enforcement Thereof 150k415 k. Nature and Essentials in General. Most Cited Cases A decree declaring a bill of sale fraudulent and void was held too vague and uncertain to be sustained;  no bill of sale being exhibited either in the bill or answer, nor any bill of sale in the record between the parties alleged, the two bills used in evidence being between different parties for different property, and the consideration of neither corresponding with the consideration of that mentioned in the decree. SHARP for plaintiff; HARDIN for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was a bill filed by Carrico, in which he alleges that he is entitled to a judgment obtained in the Shelby circuit court, in the name of Cromwell against Thomas Mudd, and that he had issued execution thereon, in virtue of which the sheriff had seized certain articles of property in the possession of Thomas Mudd, but was prevented from selling the same in satisfaction of the execution, by a fraudulent sale pretended to have been made by Thomas Mudd to his son, James Mudd. He makes Cromwell, Thomas Mudd and James Mudd, defendants, and prays that the Mudds may be restrained from removing or selling the property, and that it may be subjected to sale in satisfaction of the judgment and execution. Decree in chancery reversed, on account of its uncertainty, it being impossible to ascertain from it and the papers in the cause, what matters had been determined. James Mudd answered, but neither of the other defendants did, nor does it appear that any process had been served upon either of them. In this situation the cause was heard upon the bill, answer of James Mudd, depositions and exhibits; and the circuit court being of opinion, as the record states, "that the bill of sale given by ________ to ________ for the consideration of twenty dollars, is fraudulent and void," decreed "that the property named therein should be subject to the execution of the complainant; and as to the residue of the matters in controversy, the parties may proceed at law." To that decree this writ of error is prosecuted. The decree is evidently too vague and uncertain to be sustained. There is no bill of sale exhibited by either the bill or the answer, nor is there in the record any bill of sale from Thomas Mudd to James Mudd. There are two bills of sale which were filed and used as evidence; but these are each from a different person to James Mudd, and for different property, and for a different consideration, and the consideration of neither corresponds with the consideration of that mentioned in the decree. It is impossible to know, therefore, with any degree of certainty, what was settled by the decree, and what was left to be litigated by the parties at law. As the decree must, for its uncertainty, be reversed, it would be our duty, if the cause was in a situation to be finally disposed of, to examine the merits of the case, and direct what decree should be pronounced when the cause is remanded; but it is apparent, that the cause is not in a situation to be disposed of on its merits, inasmuch as neither Cromwell nor Thomas Mudd, both of whom are necessary parties to the suit, had appeared and answered, or had been served with process requiring them to do so. *2 The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, for new proceedings to be had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Mudd v. Carrico 4 Litt. 16, 14 Ky. 16, 1823 WL 1223 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
