(Cite as: 4 Litt. 159,  14 Ky. 159 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1244 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Moseby v. Lewis' Administrators. Oct. 15, 1823. *1 FROM THE GREENUP CIRCUIT COURT. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 411 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k409 Judgments Against Which Relief May Be  Had 228k411 k. Judgments by Confession or on Consent or  Offer. Most Cited Cases A confession of a judgment at law bars legal, but not equitable, matter of defense. Bills and Notes 56 k 432 56 Bills and Notes 56X Payment and Discharge 56k428 Mode and Sufficiency of Payment 56k432 k. Property or Services. Most Cited  Cases An agreement that the value of certain repairs shall be allowed as a credit on a note is neither a payment, release, nor extinguishment of the note, and is, therefore, in an action at law, not a defense to the note. Bills and Notes 56 k 452(1) 56 Bills and Notes 56XI Actions 56k450 Defenses 56k452 Particular Grounds 56k452(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A covenant that the value of certain repairs shall be discounted out of a note for the payment of money is not a matter of defense at law, but is a good defense in equity. Equity 150 k 94 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k93 Necessary or Indispensable Parties 150k94 k. Persons Indispensable to Complete and  Final Determination. Most Cited Cases Where a cause was not in a situation to be heard and disposed of as to certain necessary parties because process had not been served on one of them, and an order to advertise against another, a non-resident, had not been published. It cannot be heard and disposed of as to any of them. Equity 150 k 365 150 Equity 150VII Dismissal Before Hearing 150k360 Involuntary Dismissal 150k365 k. Dismissal Without Prejudice. Most Cited  Cases Where complainant was negligent in preparing the cause for hearing as to some of the parties, the bill may be dismissed therefor without prejudice. TRIPLETT and TAUL for plaintiff; BRECKINRIDGE and M'CONNELL for defendants. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Lewis, under the provisions of an act of assembly, became entitled to the privilege of keeping a toll-gate, for twenty years, on a public road, he binding himself to keep the road in repair; and not long afterwards, having died, A. Kibley and Elizabeth Lewis, who has since intermarried with James Ward, administred upon his estate, and sold the residue of the term in the privilege of keeping the toll-gate, to Jouitt, at the price of $400 per annum, and Jouitt, with Moseby and Stewart as his sureties executed several notes for each annual payment, and became bound to keep the road in repair; but the administrators of Lewis agreed to allow Jouitt a credit upon the note which became first due, for the amount of certain repairs then necessary to be made upon the road. Shortly after this, Moseby purchased out Jouitt, and agreed to take his place in the contract with Lewis' administrators, and paid a part of the first note; but the residue not being paid, the administrators of Lewis brought suit threon, and Moseby confessed judgment. To enjoin this judgment, Moseby filed his bill in chancery, claiming a credit for the repairs which he alleges he had done on the road in pursuance of the contract between Lewis' administrators and Jouitt, and he makes Lewis' administrators and Jouitt, defendants. *2 Of parties to a suit in chancery, and dismissing a bill absolutely or without prejudice. A confession of judgment merely bars legal, and not equitable matter of defence. A covenant that the value of certain repairs shall be discounted out of a note for the payment of money, is not a matter of defence in a court of law, to a suit brought on the note. Ward and wife answered the bill against Kebley. He having removed from the state, there was an order to advertise, which was never published, and there was no process served upon Jouitt. In this situation the cause was taken up and heard, and the bill dismissed with costs and damages, as to Ward and wife, and continued as to Kibley and Jouitt, and Moseby has brought the case to this court. It is perfectly clear that the cause was not in a situation to be heard and disposed of as to Ward and wife. Jouitt was a necessary party, and Kibley was still more so, being one of the administrators in whose name the judgment at law had been obtained; and no process being served upon Jouitt, and the order to advertise against Kibey not being published, the cause was evidently not in a state to be heard as to them; and it is a settled rule, that a suit in chancery never can be heard and disposed of as to some of the parties, unless it be in a situation to be heard and disposed of as to all those who are necessary parties. Where there is negligence on the part of the complainant, in preparing the cause for hearing as to some of the parties, the court may, with propriety dismiss the bill for such negligence; but in such case the dismission should be without prejudice, and not absolute. If, indeed, as was contended in the argument, Moseby had precluded himself from asserting the credit which he claims in his bill, by confessing the judgment at law, he would have shown no title to relief; and however irregular the proceedings in the court below might have been, he could have had no just cause to have revised those proceedings. But we cannot admit that he is precluded from relief in equity, by the confession of the judgment at law. The confession could only conclude him as to his legal rights, and could not bar any equitable defense which he might have; and the credit which he claims in his bill, though it is a good equitable defense, would have been, in strictness of law, no legal bar to the suit upon the note. The covenant to allow, as a credit upon the note, the amount of the repairs on the road, was neither a payment, a release, nor an extinguishment of the note, and there is no other mode in which it could operate as a bar to the action at law. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, for proceedings to be had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Moseby v. Lewis' Adm'rs 4 Litt. 159, 14 Ky. 159, 1823 WL 1244 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
