(Cite as: 4 Bibb 342,  7 Ky. 342 (Ky.),  1816 WL 759 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Saunders v. Beal's administrator. May 24, 1816. *1 S and B having executed mutual and independent obligations: S. to B for the payment of the price of a lot, and B to S for a conveyance as soon as the payment should be made. In a suit brought for the purchase money a plea alleging a tender on the part of the purchaser, and a failure and inability on the part of the vendor to convey is not good. The parties have mutual remedies, and the failure by one to perform his covenant cannot be pleaded by the other in bar of the correllative independent covenant West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 58 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400II Construction and Operation of Contract 400k58 k. Dependent or Independent Stipulations. Most Cited Cases Where a vendor executed his obligation to convey within 12 months, or as soon thereafter as the consideration money should be paid, and the purchaser executed a sealed note for the price, payable within three years, the covenants were independent;  and, in a suit on the note, a plea of tender and failure and inability on the part of the vendor to convey is not good. Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 303 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400VI Remedies of Vendor 400VI(B) Actions for Purchase Money 400k303 k. Conditions Precedent. Most Cited Cases Where plaintiff executes his obligation to convey land within 12 months, or as soon thereafter as the consideration money shall be paid, and defendant executes to plaintiff a note under seal for the payment of the price within 3 years, a failure to convey cannot be pleaded in bar of an action on the note;  the covenants being independent. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. WALTER BEAL sold a lot of ground to Saunders, and executed his obligation to convey the same within twelve months, or as soon thereafter as the consideration money should be paid; and Saunders, on his part, executed to Beal a note under seal for the payment of the price within three years. Walter Beal having died, N. Beal, his administrator, brought suit by petition against Saunders upon the note for the price of the lot. In bar of this action Saunders alleged in substance that he was ready to pay the price of the lot, and had made a tender of the same to Walter Beal in his lifetime, and that Beal had not conveyed the lot, nor was he able to do so. To this plea there was a demurrer, on which judgment was given for the plaintiff, from which Saunders has appealed to this Court. There can be no doubt that the judgment of the Court below is correct. The payment of the price was not by the terms of the contract made to depend upon the conveyance of the lot as a previous condition, and the covenant to pay the price and that to convey the lot being contained in different instruments, cannot be construed to be dependent covenants. The failure to convey, therefore, most indisputably could not, upon principles of the common law, be pleaded in bar of an action brought upon the contract to pay the price: nor can this be done under the statute authorizing a defendant in an action upon a specialty to go into or impeach the consideration: for where there are mutual independent covenants, it is not the performance of the thing covenanted to be done on the one side, but the covenant itself, which is the consideration of the covenant on the other side; and therefore the failure to perform the one covenant is no failure of the consideration of the other. *2 Judgment affirmed, with damages and costs. Ky.App. 1816. Saunders v. Beal's Adm'r 4 Bibb 342, 7 Ky. 342, 1816 WL 759 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
