(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 189,  17 Ky. 189 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1525 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Guire v. Stewart. Dec. 15, 1824. *1 Injunctions, Forcible Entry, Parties, Practice. ERROR TO THE PERRY CIRCUIT; JOSEPH EVE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Equity 150 k 117 150 Equity 150III Parties and Process 150k117 k. Defects and Objections as to Parties. Most Cited Cases Where a bill contains sufficient equity to entitle the complainant to the aid of the court, it should not be dismissed for want of proper parties without plea, answer or demurrer. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Statement of the case. This was a bill with injunction, to stay proceedings on a judgment of restitution, rendered in a proceeding for a forcible entry and detainer. The bill in substance alleges, that one Scofield had purchased from Rose a tract of land of about two hundred acres, for which he held Rose's bond, and endorsed it to the defendant, as a pledge or security for $65; that the rent of the land was of the value of $80 per annum; that the defendant took possession of the land, and enjoyed the same for one year; that Scofield afterwards sold the tract to the complainant; that their contract was reduced to writing, and in addition thereto, Scofield had given to the complainant a power of attorney to demand the land and the title, and to bring suit therefor, together with general authority to act upon the subject, and that in virtue thereof, he entered upon the land, and the defendant had recovered against him a judgment of restitution, in a proceeding for a forcible entry and detainer. The court below, without plea, answer or demurrer, dissolved the injunction and dismissed the bill with costs and ten per centum damages upon the costs of the proceeding for the forcible entry. Decree of the circuit court. Had the court stopped at the dissolution of the injunction, there would have been no error which would have justified the interposition of this court; but in the stage in which the cause was, it was clearly erroneous to dismiss the bill. The complainant could not, indeed, have justly complained of even this irregularity, if the bill had contained no equity; but the bill most obviously contained matter of equity sufficient to entitle the complainant to the aid of a court of equity, not, it is true, to arrest the proceedings for the forcible entry, but to obtain a conveyance of the title of the land, and a surrender of the possession. Injunction to a judgment in forcible entry may be dissolved without plea, answer or demurrer, though the bill shows the complainant entitled to a conveyance and surrender of possession. For the bill could not be entertained to arrest the proceeding for the forcible entry. A bill can not be dismissed merely for want of parties, without answer, plea or demurrer. For this purpose Scofield and Rose were proper parties, and the bill, no doubt, was defective, in not having made them parties. But the complainant had a right before answer, to amend his bill by making them parties, and the defect was, therefore, not of a character which could justify the dismission of the bill, as was done in this case, without plea, answer or demurrer. *2 The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that further proceedings may be had, not inconsistent herewith. Daniel for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1824. McGuire v. Stewart 1 T.B.Mon. 189, 17 Ky. 189, 1824 WL 1525 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
