(Cite as: 4 Bibb 225,  7 Ky. 225 (Ky.),  1815 WL 734 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bradford v. Long. Nov. 3, 1815. *1 L, being evicted, brought his bill in equity against the holde of the elder legal title to have a release, and also against his immediate and remote vendor, in case of failure of his title in equity, to have compensation in damages for breach of the covenants of warranty. Resolved, that the vendors were not necessary parties. That L's relief was at law, and not in chancery, upon the warranty. That the warranty was broken by the judgment at law in favor of one holding the elder legal title, and it was not necessary for L, to exhibit his bill in equity. That the covenant of warranty runswith the land and L, could recover against B, upon his warranty to S who sold to L. West Headnotes Covenants 108 k 67 108 Covenants 108II Construction and Operation 108II(D) Covenants Running with the Land 108k67 k. Covenant of Warranty. Most Cited  Cases The covenant of warranty runs with the land. Covenants 108 k 79(3) 108 Covenants 108II Construction and Operation 108II(D) Covenants Running with the Land 108k77 Persons Entitled to Enforce Real Covenants 108k79 Grantees and Assignees in  General 108k79(3) k. Covenants as to Use of Real Property.  Most Cited Cases The assignee of the land, though not named in the covenant of warranty, is entitled to his remedy for the breach of it. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases A. conveyed to B. and his assigns with general warranty.  B. conveyed to C., who, being evicted, brought his bill for compensation from B. to A., and the bill was dismissed, there being adequate remedy at law. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases One who was evicted by persons holding a prior grant to the land filed a bill praying that his evictors might be compelled to convey to him, claiming that his title was superior in equity, and joined as defendants his immediate and remote vendor, and prayed, in case of failure of his title in equity, to have compensation in damages for breach of the covenants of warranty.  Held, that the latter were unnecessary parties, against whom complainant's relief was at law; and hence a court of equity was not competent to decree him compensation for the breach. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. BRADFORD conveyed to Shaw a tract of land with general warranty, and Shaw conveyed the same with like warranty to Long; who being evicted, as he alleges, by persons holding an elder grant for the land, filed his bill in chancery; and upon the allegation that the title under which he claimed was superior in equity to that of those holding the elder grant, prayed that they might be compelled to convey to him; but if his title should not be adjudged superior in equity, then upon the suggestion that Shaw was insolvent and had absconded or removed from the State, he prayed that Bradford, as well as Shaw, might be decreed to make him compensation for the land from which he was evicted. Upon a final hearing the bill was dismissed as to those holding the elder grant, and a decree pronounced in favor of Long against Bradford and Shaw jointly, for the value of the land lost, deducting the amount received for improvements. From that decree Bradford has appealed to this Court. *2 The first and principal question which the case presents, is, whether a Court of Equity is competent to decree compensation in such a case? This question, we are of opinion must be answered in the negative. There can be no doubt that Long might with propriety resort to a Court of Chancery to compel a conveyance from those having the elder legal title, provided the right under which he claims was superior in equity; but to such a suit neither Shaw nor Bradford was a necessary party. Whether they were parties or not, the failure of Long to establish a superior equity, was not a necessary prerequisite to enable him to obtain relief at law upon the covenant of warranty; for his right to such relief was complete upon the eviction having taken place in virtue of a superior legal title; and as the remedy afforded by a Court at Law is adequate in such a case to all the demands of justice, there can be no reason for resorting to a Court of Chancery. The application to a Court of Equity for relief in this case, seems to be founded upon the supposition that Long could have no relief at law against Bradford, as he was not his immediate vendor; and as Shaw was insolvent, and had removed from the State, he would, without the aid of a Court of Equity, be without remedy. The idea that Long could not have relief at law against Bradford, is certainly erroneous: for the covenant of warranty is one which runs with the land, and of which a remote, as well as an immediate vendee may avail himself. Bradford's covenant of warranty is expressly made with Shaw and his assigns; and in such a case, even where the warranty bound the party to yield land in recompense, the assignee of the purchaser could take advantage of it. But in this country the covenant of warranty is considered as only binding the party to give damages as a compensation for the loss of the land warranted; and such a covenant is in this respect more extensive than the ancient warranty: for the assignee, though not named in the covenant, may have a remedy for a breach of it.--Co. Lit. 384 b, 385 a, and Butler's note, 332. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that the bill as to Bradford and Shaw be dismissed with costs, the subject matter not being proper for relief in a Court of Equity. Ky.App. 1815. Bradford v. Long 4 Bibb 225, 7 Ky. 225, 1815 WL 734 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
