(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 341,  19 Ky. 341 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1309 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Chiles v. Calk. Oct. 19, 1826. *1 Bonds for Costs. Conditions. Breaches. ERROR TO THE MONTGOMERY CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Costs 102 k 145 102 Costs 102VI Security for Costs;  Proceedings in Forma Pauperis 102k145 k. Actions on Bonds, Undertakings, or Recognizances. Most Cited Cases In declaring on a bond, conditioned to pay to the officers of the court the fees to which the obligee shall become liable, it is not a good assignment of a breach if it be alleged that the obligor failed to pay the fees to the obligee. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. The breach of the condition of the bond alleged in the declaration, is plainly insufficient. The condition of the bond is awkwardly expressed, but the fairest and indeed the only sensible construction which can be placed upon it, is to give it the effect of a stipulation on the part of the obligor to pay to the officers of the court, the fees to which Calk the defendant in the ejectment, referred to in the condition of the bond, should become liable. But the declaration alleges the breach in a failure to pay the fees to Calk, and not in a failure to pay them to the officers of the court, and the allegation might, therefore, be true, and yet there might be no breach of the condition of the bond; for the failure to pay the fees to Calk, does not necessarily imply a failure to pay them to the officers of the court. Condition of a bond for costs, to pay the officers of the court their fees to which defendant might be liable, is not broken by a failure to pay the fees to obligee; and such an assignment of breach is insufficient. There are other irregularities in the subsequent proceedings of the cause, but as the declaration is insufficient, and the judgment in favor of Calk on that account erroneous, it seems unnecessary to notice the subsequent irregularities. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, for new proceedings to be had, not inconsistent herewith. Mayes, for plaintiff; Triplett, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Chiles v. Calk 3 T.B.Mon. 341, 19 Ky. 341, 1826 WL 1309 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
