(Cite as: 2 Bibb 287,  5 Ky. 287 (Ky.),  1811 WL 776 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Adams v. Ashby. Spring Term, 1811. *1 Upon a motion for a new trial on account of the discovery of evidence unknown on the former trial, the evidence discovered must be disclosed--Vide Picket v. Ricket, 5 Ky. 178--Wriggles??worth v. Morton, 159--Reed v. Miller, vol. i, p. 142--Heath v. Conway, 400. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 150(2) 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k149 Affidavits as to Newly Discovered Evidence 275k150 Necessity and Sufficiency in General 275k150(2) k. Requisites and Sufficiency in General.  Most Cited Cases The affidavit for a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence must set forth the names of the witnesses and the facts to which they will testify, or give a sufficient reason for the omission. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of assault and battery. After a verdict for the plaintiff, a motion for a new trial was made by the defendant, founded upon his affidavit, stating in substance, that he had since the trial, discovered new and material evidence, of which he had no knowledge at the time of trial; but what that evidence was, he did not disclose. The Circuit Court overruled the motion, and gave judgment for the plaintiff; from which the defendant appealed to this Court. The only question is, whether the defendant made out sufficient grounds for a new trial. Verdicts have sometimes been set aside and new trials awarded, upon the discovery of material evidence since the trial, but this is always done with great caution, and is allowable only where the party making the application discloses the evidence. Such a disclosure of the evidence, by enabling the Court to judge of its materiality, will not only guard against the honest prejudices of the party, who, biased by his own interest, will not unfrequently think that material, which is wholly irrelevant; but what is of more consequence in the administration of justice, will tend to defeat the artifices of the dishonest, who might be willing to swear to the materiality of that which he knew to be otherwise. Whether in addition to the disclosure of the nature of the evidence, it may be proper to require the production of the affidavits of the witnesses, or account for their non-production, need not in this case be decided; since as the disclosure of the evidence was not made, the motion for a new trial was on that ground properly overruled. Wherefore it is considered by the Court, that the judgment of the Circuit Court be affirmed, and that the appellee proceed to have the benefit of said judgment, together with ten per cent. damages upon the amount thereof. Ky.App. 1811. Adams v. Ashby 2 Bibb 287, 5 Ky. 287, 1811 WL 776 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
