(Cite as: 2 Bibb 270,  5 Ky. 270 (Ky.),  1811 WL 770 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Young v. Craig. Spring Term, 1811. *1 If through fraud or palpable and gross mistake more or less land should be conveyed than was contemplated between the parties, equity will relieve the injured party. Where the contract was for a sale by the acre, much less variation in the quantity conveyed would be received as evidence of mistake amounting to cause for the interposition of a Court of Equity, than where the contract was for a sale in gross. In sales by the acre every variation in the quantity deeded from the quantity contracted for will not warrant the interference of a Court of Equity. The case must be adjudged according to the circumstances of time and usual allowances, then made between purchasers and sellers. The deed is taken as prima facie evidence of the terms of sale, unless by mistake or fraud words are introduced contrary to the intent of the parties. The words, "more or less," are evidences that the parties were to risk a gain o?? loss in the estimated quantity. But the excess or deficit may b?? so great as to authorize an inference of fraud or mistake. The difference between 425 and 481 does not warrant such an inference. West Headnotes Deeds 120 k 114(3) 120 Deeds 120III Construction and Operation 120III(B) Property Conveyed 120k114 Particular Description 120k114(3) k. Additional Recitals Extending or Limiting  Grant. Most Cited Cases Recitals of quantity, following a particular description, are merely descriptive, and do not determine the quantity sold. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge WALLACE absent. THE question in this case is whether Craig, who had sold to Young a tract of land containing in its boundaries a surplus, has a right to recover such surplus; or, in case it cannot be had, a compensation therefor in money? There is no novelty or peculiarity in the principles upon which questions of this sort depend. In contracts of this kind, the same good faith is required, and the same responsibility attaches to its violation, which law and reason prescribe in every description of contract. If, through fraud or gross and palpable mistake, more or less land should be conveyed than was in the contemplation of the seller to part with, or the purchaser to receive, the injured party would be entitled to relief in like manner as he would be for an injury produced by a similar cause in a contract of any other species. In this case however there is no evidence of fraud, and the only ground from which an inference can be deduced that there was such a mistake as would justify the interference of the Court for the purpose of correction, is the surplus contained in the boundaries described by the deed. Whether this ground be sufficient to justify such an inference, depends upon the nature and terms of the contract. Contracts for the sale of land may be considered of two descriptions: 1st. Where the sale is of a specific quantity, which is usually denominated a sale by the acre; and 2d. Where the sale is of a specific tract, by name or description, each party risking the quantity. The latter for the sake of brevity, is sometimes called a sale in gross. *2 It is evident that in a sale per acre, much less variation from the quantity intended to be conveyed, would afford evidence of a mistake which would justify the interposition of a Court to correct it, than would be sufficient for that purpose in a sale of the other description. But even in a sale per acre, as from the roughness and unevenness of the ground, from the variation of instruments, and from the different results that will necessarily be produced by different surveyors operating with the same instruments, it is impracticable to ascertain the quantity with perfect precision; a small deficit or surplus, however exactly the parties may have intended to be confined to a specific quantity, would not justify an application to a Court of Justice for relief. In many cases, however, of sales of this sort, the parties did not intend to be very scrupulously exact with respect to the quantity. There was particularly in the sales made at an early period of this country great liberality of admeasurement frequently allowed by the seller and expected by the purchaser. Where this was the case, to authorize a conclusion from the surplus contained in the boundaries of a tract that there was a mistake of quantity, the surplus ought to be greater than was usua?? in conveyances made about the same period, and with the same intention of allowing a liberal admeasurement. But as in some sales of an early period, and in perhaps a great majority those of a more recent date, such a liberality of admeasurement was not intended by the parties, it would be obviously improper and unjust to lay down any general rule as to the rate of surplus that would justify an inference of a mistake which would deserve correction. Each case must depend much upon its own particular circumstances. Whether such an inference would be authorized in the present case, where the sale in question per acre, and not in gross, need not to be determined, since we are of opinion it is of the latter description. The deed of conveyance must be taken as conclusive evidence of the terms of sale, unless it had been shown that language, not comporting with the true intention of the parties, had been inserted through fraud or mistake, of which there is not the slightest indication in this case. The deed describes the land by its boundaries and situation, and as "containing by survey four hundred and twenty-five acres, be the same more or less." The plain and most obvious meaning of the expression "be the same more or less," is that the parties were to run the risk of gain or loss, as there might happen to be an excess or deficiency in the estimated quantity. This, it is believed, is the sense in which such an expression is uniformly understood, by both the learned and unlearned. This idea is not repelled by the expression of the quantity of acres; on the contrary, it rather derives strength from the manner in which the quantity is mentioned; for it plainly indicates that the expression of quantity was used as matter of description only, and that it was the intention of the parties not to be confined to a precise and specified quantity. *3 We do not mean to be understood, that in a sale of this kind the surplus or deficit might not be so great as to authorize an inference that it had been produced by fraud or mistake; but in this case, where the estimated quantity was 425 acres, and the largest quantity which any subsequent survey has made it is 481, the surplus does not appear so great as not to be within the reasonable limits of a risking bargain of this kind--See in support of this doctrine, Sugden 225-6, 1 Call. 301, 2 Freem. 106. We are therefore of opinion, that the decree of the Circuit Court in favor of Craig, was erroneous, and must be reversed with costs. Ky.App. 1811. Young v. Craig 2 Bibb 270, 5 Ky. 270, 1811 WL 770 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
