(Cite as: 1 Bibb 522,  4 Ky. 522 (Ky.),  1809 WL 804 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Clay v. Smith and others. Oct. 21, 1809. *1 Cintrusts a warrant with S to locate on the halves; in the absence of S and without his consent or privity, L obtains the warrant and assigns it to R, who had full knowledge of the illegal act of L; R locates the warrant in his own name and obtainsthe grants, sells a part of the land to purchasers without notice, and to some he conveys legal title before notice to them of C's claim; other purchasers had not obtained the legal title. C exhibits his bill against L, R, S and the purchasers from R to have the land, or compensation. S being guilty of no negligence nor fraud is not responsible to C. The bona fide purchasers of the legal title without notice, shall hold against C. Those who had not obtained the legal title before notice, must be postponed in equity to the prior equity of C; Accord.  Currens and Coburn v. Hart?? Hard. 37. R who received the forged assignment and sold the land obtained thereby made first responsible; in case of his inability to respond in damages, L the assignor made liable. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 239(9) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(C) Bona Fide Purchasers 400k239 Title and Rights Acquired by Bona Fide Purchasers  and Equities and Defenses Against Them 400k239(9) k. Protection Against Fraud or Other Invalidity  in Prior Conveyances. Most Cited Cases A. obtained possession by fraud of a land office warrant deposited by B. with D. to locate, and assigned it to C. C. made two entries, had them surveyed and patented in his own name, and sold them to several purchasers without notice.  B. thereupon filed his bill against A., C., and D. and the purchasers for a recovery of a moiety of the land, or, if it could not be had, its value in money. Held, that B. was entitled to a decree against the heirs and representatives of C. for the value of the land. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. CLAY being entitled to a land office treasury warrant, transmitted it by his friend to this country, and had it deposited with Charles Smith, to locate. Smith, before he had located the warrant, had occasion to go to the eastern part of Virginia, left it, together with others of his own, in the hands of his father. During his absence, Lewis Craig got possession of the warrant, and without Smith's knowledge or consent, and without any authority from Clay, assigned it in the name of Clay, to James Renfro, who was privy to, and had full knowledge of the assignment being fraudulent and unauthorized. By virtue of this warrant, Renfro made two entries, one for 500 acres and the other for 681, and had the same surveyed and patented in his own name. Joseph Anderson, Charles Patterson, Jesse Vawter, James Underwood, Robert Holloway, Jeremiah West, Tabitha Underwood and Gideon Underwood, hold under Renfro, either mediately or immediately, and are purchasers for a valuable consideration, without notice of the fraud through which Renfro derived his grant; none of these persons, except Joseph Anderson, Charles Holloway and Jesse Vawter, had at the time of the institution of this suit, a legal title conveyed to them. *2 Clay filed his bill against Smith, Craig, Renfro, and the purchasers under Renfro, and sought for a recovery of a moiety of the land, if to be had, if not, its value in money. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill as to Smith and the purchasers from Renfro, and sustained it against Craig and Renfro's heirs and representatives, for the value of one half of the land. To this decree Clay has prosecuted this writ of error. The errors assigned resolve themselves into two general propositions: 1. That Clay is entitled to recover from the purchasers under Renfro a moiety of the land, and, 2. Supposing Clay not entitled to a moiety of the land, compensation in money against Smith, as well as Craig and Renfro's heirs, ought to have been decreed. To support the first proposition, it has been contended that the purchasers had notice of the fraud in the derivation of their title. There is not in the cause anything that can warrant the assertion of this fact. The defendants positively deny the charge, and there is not a shadow of evidence to prove it. From anything that appears in the cause the institution of the suit is the first notice the purchasers had of Clay's claim to the land. At that period some of them were vested with the legal title, others not; as to those in whom the legal title was vested being innocent purchasers, their equity is equal to that of the complainant, and their legal title must prevail. Those however who had not conveyances of the legal title stand upon very different ground. They have to be sure equity as well as Clay, but in cases of conflicting equities, the maxim is, that precedency in time gives the advantage in right; against them for their respective proportions, so far at least as is necessary to satisfy his claim to a moiety of the land patented to Renfro, Clay must prevail. The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore erroneous in decreeing for them against the complainant. As to Smith's liability to make compensation to Clay, in case an entire moiety of the land should not be obtained, no specific ground has been taken to support it. As a bailee having a common interest with the bailor, in the warrant, he was bound to only ordinary care; a want of such care cannot be properly imputed to him. The warrant was taken without his knowledge or consent, and in the fraudulent act of assigning it, he appears in no manner to have participated. As to him, therefore, the bill seems to have been properly dismissed. The decree delivered by the Chief Justice, BIBB, is as follows: It is therefore decreed and ordered, that the said decree of the Circuit Court, as against said Craig and the heirs of said Renfro, and those persons deriving an equitable claim under said Renfro, be reversed, and it is hereby set aside, and the cause is remanded to the said Circuit Court, that an estimate may be made of the averaged value of the lands obtained by the two entries respectively in the bill alluded to; that an account may also be taken of the quantity and value of the land conveyed to the purchasers bona fide and without notice in the aforegoing opinion mentioned; and if it shall appear that the complainant can have a decree in specie for one equal moiety of the lands aforesaid, paying just regard to quantity and quality, then that the said complainant have a decree therefor in specie, by proper metes and bounds, but if it shall appear that the complainant cannot have one equal moiety as aforesaid, by reason that the legal title has been conveyed to bona fide purchasers without notice of the complainant's claim, then that the deficit be decreed in money against the said Renfro's heirs and representatives respectively, if so much they have by descent to satisfy the deficit, if not, then against the said Craig, together with the costs of suit, to be decreed the complainant. *3 And as to the decree for dismissing the bill as against said Smith, and the said Joseph Anderson, Charles Holloway and Jesse Vawter, it is decreed and ordered, that the said decree of the Circuit Court be affirmed. Ky.App. 1809. Clay v. Smith 1 Bibb 522, 4 Ky. 522, 1809 WL 804 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
