(Cite as: 3 Bibb 289,  6 Ky. 289 (Ky.),  1814 WL 762 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Call v. Welsh. Apr. 16, 1814. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 59 302 Pleading 302II Declaration, Complaint, Petition, or Statement 302k59 k. Performance of Conditions. Most Cited Cases Where covenants on the part of defendant are to be performed concurrently with, or subsequently to, the covenants of plaintiff, the latter must aver his performance or his readiness to perform. Pleading 302 k 80 302 Pleading 302III Responses or Responsive Pleadings in General 302III(A) Defenses in General 302k80 k. Partial Defenses. Most Cited Cases Where a plea answers a part only of the count, the plaintiff may join issue on the plea and take judgment by nihil dicit for the residue of the action not answered. Pleading 302 k 88 302 Pleading 302III Responses or Responsive Pleadings in General 302III(A) Defenses in General 302k88 k. Plea or Answer to Part of Cause of Action or Pleading  of Plaintiff. Most Cited Cases A plea or answer purporting to be a defense to the whole cause of action, but which answers only a part, is bad. Contracts 95 k 278(1) 95 Contracts 95V Performance or Breach 95k278 Performance of Conditions 95k278(1) k. Necessity of Performance. Most Cited  Cases Where one agreed to construct a building for another within a certain time, and the latter agreed to board the former and his workmen during the progress of the work, and after the time set for completion to pay the former a certain sum, the covenants are dependent, so that, in an action by the former, averment of performance by the other is necessary. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS was an action of covenant, in which the plaintiff declared upon an agreement bearing date the 28th of June 1811, whereby the plaintiff covenanted to build for the defendant a saw-mill, and do certain repairs to a grist-mill; the work to be completed by the 15th of November next ensuing the date of the agreement: and the defendant on his part covenanted that he would board the plaintiff and his workmen while doing the said millright work, and pay therefor the sum of eighty dollars in the month of March next after the date of the agreement, and forty dollars in the June following. If a plea professes to answer the whole declaration, but answers only a part, the plea is bad and the plaintiff may demur. If the plea professes to answer a part only of the count, and answers that part, or the whole, the plaintiff cannot demur. If the plea answers a part only of the count, the plaintiff should join issue on the plea and take judgment by nil dicit for the residue of the action not answered. Where the covenants on the part of the defendant are to be performed concurrently with or subsequent to the covenants on the part of the plaintiff, the plaintiff must aver a performance or readiness to perform on his part. And a plea to deny the performance on the part of the plaintiff is admissible. The plaintiff avers that he did, within the time stipulated, perform all things which by the tenor and effect of the covenant he was bound to perform; and assigns as breaches of the covenant by the defendant--1. That he failed and refused to board the plaintiff and his workmen while doing the said millright work, whereby the said plaintiff was greatly obstructed and hindered in doing the same; and 2. That he did not pay to the plaintiff the said sum of eighty dollars. The defendant pleaded covenants performed, upon which issue was joined, and offered at the same time, as an answer to the second breach, a plea denying that the plaintiff had kept and performed the covenants on his part stipulated to be performed. But the plaintiff objected to filing the plea, and the Court sustained the objection, to which the defendant excepted. A verdict was given for the plaintiff on the issue joined, and a judgment rendered thereon; to reverse which the defendant prosecutes this writ of error. Several objections are taken to the sufficiency of the declaration, but as some of them are manifestly such as would not prevail at any stage of the cause, and the others of a nature to be cured by the verdict, we shall pass them over without farther notice, and proceed to inquire whether the plea offered by the defendant and rejected by the Court was a good one or not? It is not a solid or legal objection to the plea, that it does not answer the whole declaration. If indeed a plea professes in its commencement to answer more than it afterward answers, the whole plea will be bad, and the plaintiff may demur; but if in its introductory part it assumes to answer a part only, and is in law a sufficient answer to that part of or the whole, plea will be good and the plaintiff cannot demur, but should, if there be no answer to the residue of the count or declaration, take judgment therefor as by nil dicit, and join issue upon the plea--1 Saund. 28, note 3--Chitty on Pleading, 509-10, and the authorities there cited. *2 Whether the plea in question in this case is in law a sufficient answer to so much of the declaration as it professes to answer, depends upon the point whether the averment in the declaration of a performance of the covenants on the part of the plaintiff is material and traversable or not; for if it be material and traversable, then the plea which traverses it must be good. Where they are reciprocal covenants, they are either dependent or independent. If of the latter character, it is not necessary for the plaintiff to aver performance on his part; but if they be of the former kind, such an averment is indispensable. Covenants or agreements should be construed to be either dependent or independent, according to the intention of the parties and the good sense of the case. In order to discover that intention, and thereby to learn when performance is necessary to be averred on the part of the plaintiff, and when not, some general rules have been laid down by the writers upon this subject FN(a) . These rules, if applied to the present case, will lead to the conclusion that the covenants are dependent, and of course that an averment of performance on the part of the plaintiff was necessary. The covenants on the part of the defendant were to be performed either concurrently with or subsequently to the performance of the covenants on the part of the plaintiff; and in either case it is an established rule that the covenants are so far dependent, that the plaintiff cannot maintain his action without showing a performance on his part, or a readiness to perform--See 1 Saund. 320, note 4-- Chitty on Pleading 813-14. FN(a). Vide vol. 2, Craddock v. Alridge, 15--Horine v. Best 547-- Kendal v. Talbot, 614. We are therefore of opinion that the plea was good, and that the Court below erred in rejecting it. Judgment reversed, etc. Ky.App. 1814. McCall v. Welsh 3 Bibb 289, 6 Ky. 289, 1814 WL 762 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
