(Cite as: 2 Bibb 198,  5 Ky. 198 (Ky.),  1810 WL 695 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wagnon v. M'Coy's executor Fall Term, 1810. *1 If plaintiff die after execution delivered to sheriff, but before it is levied or replevied the execution abates. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 117 161 Execution 161IV Lien 161k117 k. Death of Creditor After Issue of Writ. Most Cited Cases If plaintiff dies after the execution is delivered to the sheriff, but before it is levied or replevied, the execution abates. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge LOGAN absent. THIS is a writ of error, to a judgment of the Fayette Circuit Court, overruling a motion to quash an execution. The motion was made upon the following case: "On the 11th day of August, 1809, the execution issued, and came to the hands of the sheriff on the same day, but nothing was done on the execution by the sheriff until the 12th day of September, when he levied it on horses and other property; prior to which (to-wit: on the 17th day of August) the plaintiff died, and as yet (that is when the motion was made) no administration has been granted of his estate. If the judgment of the Circuit Court be correct, then it follows, either that the defendant is not in such a case entitled to the privilege of replevying, or that the replevy bond may be executed to the plaintiff after he is dead. The former of these alternatives is clearly inadmissible. The law gives the privilege of replevying the debt or demand, without making an exception of the case where the death of the plaintiff shall have happened, and such an inevitable casualty ought not to be allowed to work a wrong to the defendant, by depriving him of a right which the law had secured to him. The latter alternative admits of more doubt. It appears, however, to be more consistent with the general principles of law that the process should abate, than that a bond should be executed to a person not in rerum natura. If such a bond be valid, and it is a perfect unique, and stands a solitary exception to all the known rules and principles of law. It is not to be expected that English cases can be found applicable to the present, there not being in that country a right of replevying, nor any act to be done by either plaintiff or defendant, after the process of execution was in the hands of the sheriff; but with respect to the abatement of suits or process, it seems to be a principle deducible from the common law authorities, that while any act remained to be done by the parties necessary to carry on the suit or perfect the execution of the process, the suit or process would abate by the death of either of the parties. We are therefore of opinion, that the Circuit Court erred in not quashing the execution; but the original judgment and the previous proceedings are correct, and must stand unaltered and affirmed. Ky.App. 1810. Wagnon v. McCoy's Ex'r 2 Bibb 198, 5 Ky. 198, 1810 WL 695 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
