(Cite as: 3 Bibb 115,  6 Ky. 115 (Ky.),  1813 WL 621 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Beauchamp and Yeiser v. Bosworth. Jul. 5, 1813. West Headnotes Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 19 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k17 Pleading 42k19 k. Declaration. Most Cited Cases In assumpsit, the declaration must aver consideration for the promise. Assumpsit, Action Of 42 k 19 42 Assumpsit, Action Of 42k17 Pleading 42k19 k. Declaration. Most Cited Cases An allegation that "defendant being indebted to plaintiff" in a specific sum stated, promised to pay, etc., is not a sufficient allegation of consideration. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS was an action of assumpsit, in which the plaintiff declared "that the defendants, on the 12th day of February, 1811, at, etc., being indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of one hundred and eighteen dollars, in consideration thereof promised to pay to the plaintiff one hundred and eighteen dollars in good merchantable blueash plank, to be delivered at the steam mill at two dollars the hundred feet, on or before the 20th of May then next thereafter," etc. The defendants having made default, judgment upon a writ of inquiry was given for the plaintiff, to which this writ of error is prosecuted. In assumpsit a sufficient consideration must be alleged in the declaration. It is not sufficient to say that "the defendant being indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of 118 dollars, in consideration thereof promised to pay in plank, etc. The only question is, whether there is a sufficient consideration alleged in the declaration? There is no principle of the common law better settled, than that a promise to be binding must be made upon a legal and valid consideration; and without such consideration no action will lie. The consideration, therefore, being essential to the right to maintain an action upon a promise, must be alleged, unless it be in a case where the promise is evidenced by a writing which imports a consideration. It has been repeatedly held that to allege that the defendant being indebted in a given sum, in consideration thereof promised to pay, etc., is not sufficient without alleging the cause or consideration upon which the debt was founded--10 Co. Rep. 77--Cro. James 207, 214, 642--Cro. Car. 6, 31. But it is contended that there is a distinction between a general indebitatus assumpsit, where the promise is to pay the debt, and a special assumpsit, where the promise is to pay or do something else in consideration of the debt; and that although it be necessary to allege how the debt became due in the former case, it is not necessary to do so in the latter. No case, however, was cited, nor have we been able to find any one in which such a mode of declaring upon a special promise in consideration of a previous debt, has been decided to be sufficient. The true distinction seems to be between a case where the debt is alleged as the consideration of the promise, and a case where some other matter, as forbearance of the debt, or the like, is laid as the consideration of the promise. In the former, the debt being the immediate consideration, is the gist of the action, and therefore it is necessary to allege how the debt became due, as well to show that it was not a debt by record or specialty, in which case an assumpsit would not lie, as to show that it was binding upon the party, and therefore a good and valid consideration for the promise. But in the latter case, as the debt is not the immediate consideration, but only an inducement to that which is the consideration, it is not the gist of the action, and need not, therefore, be so certainly and precisely alleged. This distinction is laid down by Commyns in his Digest, vol. 1, p. 217, and seems to be well warranted by the authorities there cited. *2 We are, therefore, of opinion that the consideration laid in the declaration in the present case is not sufficient. Judgment reversed with costs, cause to be remanded and the plaintiff in the Court below to have leave to amend his declaration. Ky.App. 1813. Beauchamp v. Bosworth 3 Bibb 115, 6 Ky. 115, 1813 WL 621 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
