(Cite as: 1 T.B.Mon. 72,  17 Ky. 72 (Ky.),  1824 WL 1486 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Murphy v. Trigg. Oct. 11, 1824. *1 Contracts, Evidence, Usury, Mortgages. APPEAL FROM THE SHELBY CIRCUIT; HENRY DAVIDGE, JUDGE. West Headnotes Mortgages 266 k 37(2) 266 Mortgages 266I Requisites and Validity 266I(A) Nature and Essentials of Conveyances as Security 266k35 Evidence as to Character of Transaction or  Instrument 266k37 Admissibility 266k37(2) k. Parol Evidence. Most Cited  Cases Parol evidence is admissible to show that an absolute deed was intended as a mortgage, and that the defeasance has been omitted by fraud or mistake. Evidence 157 k 437 157 Evidence 157XI Parol or Extrinsic Evidence Affecting Writings 157XI(B) Invalidating Written Instrument 157k437 k. Illegality. Most Cited Cases Though parol evidence is inadmissible to vary the terms of a written contract, it is admissible to prove a vice in it, and hence may be admitted to prove that a bill of sale, absolute on its face, was intended as a mortgage to secure a usurious loan. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. The main question in this case, is, whether a bill of sale for a female slave, executed by the complainants to the defendant, was intended to be an absolute conveyance or a mortgage. The bill of sale purports, on its face, to be an absolute conveyance, and there is no written evidence produced, conducing to show it to have been otherwise intended by the parties; but the parol testimony, we think, very clearly evinces that the bill of sale was given as a security for money due from the complainant to the defendant, and was intended by them to operate as a mortgage. But this testimony is contended to be inadmissible; and for the purpose of showing it to be so, the case of  Thompson and Potter, 5 Litt. Rep. 74, is cited and relied on. That case differs from this, however, in one very material feature. In that case, there was no allegation of any vice in the transaction, which could avoid the contract; but in this, it is alleged that the conveyance was made to secure an usurious interest, which so far renders the contract void, and the fact is established by the testimony. Parol evidence, though inadmissible to vary the terms of a written contract, is admissible to prove a vice in it; ergo, it is admissible to prove that a bill of sale, absolute on its face, was intended as a mortgage to secure an usurious loan. Now, although it is a general rule, that parol testimony is inadmissible to vary the terms of a written contract, yet it is an established principle, that any matter which vitiates the contract, may be proved by parol testimony; and of course, if the contract be void, it may be shown to have been intended to operate differently from what, on its face, it imports. There being no errors assigned in the details of the decree, it is unnecessary to notice them. *2 The decree must be affirmed with costs. Crittenden, for appellant; Sharp, &c., for appellee. Ky.App. 1824. Murphy v. Trigg 1 T.B.Mon. 72, 17 Ky. 72, 1824 WL 1486 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
