(Cite as: 4 Bibb 311,  7 Ky. 311 (Ky.),  1816 WL 738 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. First v. Miller. Apr. 18, 1816. *1 The sheriff's return that he paid the amount of the execution to plaintiff, is not evidence of the payment, but the sheriff must prove it otherwise than by his own return. West Headnotes Execution 161 k 55 161 Execution 161II Property Subject to Execution 161k55 k. Property in Custody of the Law. Most Cited Cases Money in the hands of an officer, received on an execution, is not liable to be levied upon as the property of the creditor in the execution. Execution 161 k 344 161 Execution 161XII Return 161k342 Operation and Effect 161k344 k. Conclusiveness. Most Cited Cases The sheriff's return that he paid the amount of the execution to the judgment creditor is not evidence of the payment, but the sheriff must prove it otherwise than by his own return. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. ON a motion against the defendant as deputy sheriff, for money collected by him on a fieri facias, the plaintiff offered to prove that the money had not been paid to his attorney, but the Court below rejected the evidence as inadmissible, to which the plaintiff excepted, and a judgment being given against him he has brought the case to this Court by writ of error. It does not appear that any evidence had been adduced by the defendant to prove that the money had been paid to the plaintiff's attorney; and if there were no such evidence adduced, it is plain that the testimony offerred by the plaintiff was immaterial. It is true that the plaintiff had previously read the return of the sheriff, which states that he had made the money and paid it to the plaintiff's attorney. But most unquestionably the sheriff's return was no evidence of his having paid the money. Such a return is not commanded to be made by the writ, nor is it authorized by law. The sheriff may indeed excuse himself by showing that he has paid the amount collected to the plaintiff or his attorney, but he must prove the fact by other evidence than his return. To put the plaintiff upon the proof that he had not received the money, because the sheriff had returned that he had, would be preposterous in itself and attended with the most mischievous consequences. If then the Court below considered the return of the sheriff as no evidence of the payment of the money, and we cannot presume otherwise unless it had been so stated in the bill of exceptions, they might with propriety refuse to listen to the evidence offered by the plaintiff as being immaterial, nor can their having done so be considered by this Court as any cause for reversing their judgment. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. First v. Miller 4 Bibb 311, 7 Ky. 311, 1816 WL 738 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
