(Cite as: 4 Litt. 133,  14 Ky. 133 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1236 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bell v. North. Oct. 14, 1823. *1 FROM THE SIMPSON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. HENRY P. BRODNAX SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 24 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353I Appointment, Qualification, and Tenure 353I(C) Deputies and Assistants, Substitutes, and Special Officers 353k24 k. Bailiffs, Keepers, Clerks, and Other Assistants  and Employees. Most Cited Cases In an action of trespass against a sheriff and others for entering plaintiff's premises and seizing and taking away certain property under an execution in a civil action, the court properly instructed that the sheriff had the right to summon individuals to go with him and assist him in levying the execution, without having previously attempted to levy and been resisted. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 120 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353III Powers, Duties, and Liabilities 353k120 k. Irregular or Invalid Sale. Most Cited Cases A sheriff cannot be made a trespasser ab initio by omitting to sell property taken under execution. Trial 388 k 202 388 Trial 388VII Instructions to Jury 388VII(B) Necessity and Subject-Matter 388k202 k. Duty of Judge in General. Most Cited  Cases It is the duty of a judge to instruct the jury upon every point pertinent to the issue. Courts 106 k 80(1) 106 Courts 106II Establishment, Organization, and Procedure 106II(F) Rules of Court and Conduct of Business 106k80 Matters Subject to Regulation 106k80(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A rule of court which requires a party to submit his request for instructions to the jury before argument is commenced, is illegal in that it deprives the party of a legal right to have the law of the case explained to the jury at any time before they retire. CRITTENDEN for North; no attorney for Bell. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was an action of trespass vi et armis, brought by North against Bell, Williams, Stanford, Hart, Jackson and Anderson, for entering his close, and seizing and taking away sundry of his slaves. A nolle prosequi was entered by the plaintiff, as to the defendant Anderson, and the other defendants pleaded not guilty, with leave by the plaintiff to give in evidence any matter which might be specially pleaded. On the trial, it appeared from the evidence that Williams, as sheriff, had, in virtue of an execution issued at the suit of Bell, against the plaintiff, upon a replevin bond for a large sum, seized the slaves in question, and taken them bound to the jail, where they were kept and treated humanely, until the 20th day after the seizure, when they were released by a supersedeas; and that Bell and the other defendants had gone with the sheriff, to show the property, and aid the sheriff in taking the slaves and carrying them off. The circumstances attending the seizure of the slaves are detailed in the evidence spread upon the record, but are not here necessary to be stated. *2 A rule of court prohibiting a party from obtaining the instruction of the court to the jury on any matter of law relevant in the case, at any time before the jury retire from the bar, ought not to be made, and if made, ought not to be adhered to. This is a right which the law gives to every party litigant, and no court can, by its rules, deprive a person of his legal right. In the argument before the jury, the counsel for the plaintiff insisted, in his concluding speech, that the sheriff had acted improperly, in delaying the sale twenty days, and that he had no right to summon assistance, before attempting first to levy the execution without any, and being resisted. The counsel for the defendant thereupon moved the court to instruct the jury, 1st, that the retaining possession of the property twenty days without selling it, after levying the execution thereon, and having it released on the twentieth day by supersedeas, was no evidence of trespass on the part of the sheriff; 2dly, that the sheriff had a right to summon individuals to go with him and assist him in levying the execution, without having previously attempted to levy, and being resisted. But the court overruled the motion, and refused to give the instructions, on the ground that they were not asked for before the argument of the cause to the jury, which was required by a rule of that court; to which the defendant's counsel excepted. A sheriff can not be made a trespasser ab initio, by omitting to sell property taken under execution. Misfeasance, not merely nonfeasance, makes an officer a trespasser. A sheriff may summon aid to assist him in executing every writ of execution. The jury found a verdict for $75 against Bell, and $20 against Williams, and found the other defendants not guilty, who had judgment entered for their costs; and the plaintiff electing to take the better damages, had judgment rendered for him, against Bell, for $75, without taking any further notice of the verdict against Williams, and Bell has brought the case to this court. The first point we shall notice, is the refusal of the circuit court to give the instructions asked for by the counsel for the defendants in that court. There can be no doubt, that the ground upon which the court refused to give the instructions, cannot be sustained. Either party has a legal right to the instructions of the court to the jury, at any time before they retire to consider of their verdict upon matters of law relevant to the points in controversy; and it would be preposterous, to suppose that the parties could be deprived of a right which the law gives them, by a rule of the court. The courts may, by their rules, regulate mere maters of practice, which are in their discretion; but they cannot repeal the rules of law, or deprive the parties of the rights which are secured to them by those rules. Nor is there any doubt, but that the instructions asked for by the defendants, were in themselves proper. The mere omission of the sheriff to sell property taken by him under an execution, for any length of time, cannot make him a trespasser. Where a sheriff or other officer, by a positive act of malfeasance, abuses the authority or license which the law gives him, he may thereby become a trespasser ab initio; but it is a settled rule, that for a negative abuse of such authority, he cannot become a trespasser, being in such case only guilty of a nonfeasance, which cannot make him a trespasser ab initio. But, in this case, as the property was released on the twentieth day after the seizure of the slaves, the sheriff could not have been guilty of even a nonfeasance, in not selling; for he was not bound to have sold before that day. There can be, therefore, no doubt that the court ought to have given the first instruction asked for by the defendants; and of the propriety of giving the second instruction asked for by them, there is, if possible, still less room to doubt. The sheriff, it is said has a right, but is not bound to summon others to aid him in the execution of mesnc process; but with respect to writs of execution, he not only has a right, but is bound at his peril to take with him sufficient aid to enable him to perform the commands of the writ; and he cannot, therefore, return that its execution was resisted by force. 7 Bac. Abr. title Sheriff, letter N. and the cases there cited. *3 Where the plaintiff elects to take judgment against one of two defendants found guilty of the whole trespass, he ought to discontinue as to the one against whom he does not take judgment. The court, therefore, erred in not giving the instructions asked for by the defendants. As the judgment must, on this ground, be reversed, it is only necessary to remark, that it was not strictly correct to take the judgment against one only of the defendants who were found guilty by the jury, of the whole trespass, without entering a nolle prosequi as to the others; and as this was not done, the suit will be considered as depending against both defendants who were found guilty, when the cause is remanded, unless, in the meantime, it has been discontinued or otherwise disposed of, against the defendant Williams., The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, for new proceedings to be had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1823. Bell v. North 4 Litt. 133, 14 Ky. 133, 1823 WL 1236 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
