(Cite as: 3 Bibb 365,  6 Ky. 365 (Ky.),  1814 WL 793 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Tyree, etc. v. Williams, etc. Jul. 8, 1814. West Headnotes Powers 307 k 32 307 Powers 307II Construction and Execution 307k32 k. Mode of Execution. Most Cited Cases Testator by his will directed that his land should be sold at auction. It was advertised for sale accordingly, and A. offered by letter a certain sum, and, no other person bidding as much as A. then offered, the land was afterwards conveyed to him.  Held, that this was to be considered as a sale at auction, within the terms of the will. Specific Performance 358 k 15 358 Specific Performance 358I Nature and Grounds of Remedy in General 358k11 Defenses or Objections to Relief 358k15 k. Enforcement Ineffectual or Not Beneficial. Most  Cited Cases The insolvency of one of the parties to an agreement for the exchange of lands is no objection to a decree against the other party for specific performance of the agreement, when a responsible person is required to join the insolvent in the conveyance and warranty on his part. Specific Performance 358 k 101 358 Specific Performance 358III Good Faith and Diligence 358k101 k. Waiver and Estoppel to Urge Objections to Delay or of Default. Most Cited Cases A. agreed to sell to B. a lot in C., in consideration whereof B. agreed to sell to A. two lots in D., which he claimed under E., and also to pay the sum of $800 in sundry payments. Each was to convey when the other did, but no time for the conveyances was appointed.  B. afterwards sold the lot in C. to F., who filed a bill for specific performance, making B., A., and G., who had purchased from A. his interest in the contract with B., and H., who set up a claim to one of the lots in D. by virtue of a purchase under an execution against B., parties.  H.'s claim against B. being otherwise secured, he gave up all claim to the lot in D. before the hearing.  Held, that the delay on B.'s part to execute his contract could not be objected to the decree;  each party having been put in possession of the property for which he contracted. Auctions and Auctioneers 47 k 7 47 Auctions and Auctioneers 47k7 k. Conduct and Validity of Sale. Most Cited Cases Where the highest bid offered for land advertised for sale at auction is received by letter, and the land is conveyed in accordance with such offer, it will be regarded a valid sale at auction. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 ON the 24th of February, 1806, William Tyree and John Jordan entered into articles, whereby the former agreed to sell to the latter a lot in Lexington; and the latter, in consideration thereof agreed to sell to the former two lots in Standford, which he claimed under William Henderson or his representatives; and also to pay the sum of 800 dollars, in sundry payments, the last of which was to be made on the 1st of January, 1808. Tyree was to convey to Jordan when Jordan conveyed to him, and Jordan stipulated to convey to Tyree whenever Tyree should convey to him; but no time was appointed when either conveyance should be made. Jordan afterward sold the lot in Lexington to Williams, who on the 4th of March, 1809, filed his bill in chancery to compel specific execution of the contract, making Jordan, Tyree and Mason, who had purchased from Tyree his interest in the contract with Jordan, and Wallace, who set up a claim to one of the lots in Standford by virtue of a purchase under an execution against Jordan, defendants. The Court below decreed the specific execution of the contract, to reverse which decree this writ of error is prosecuted. An equitable interest in land cannot be sold under execution. Upon an exchange of land it is no objection to a specific execution that one of the parties has become insolvent, if the Court decree a conveyance from the insolvent, with the warranty of a solvent person as security. Time is not considered in equity of essence in a contract, and equity will decree a specific execution after the time stipulated has been suffered to elapse without performance or offer to perform, unless there has been culpable negligence or wilful delay on the part of him who asks performance. If each party has been put into possession, lapse of time without conveyance made is no objection to a specific execution. Although the complainant seeking specific execution had not the legal title, so as to perform on his part at the filing of the bill, yet if he acquires the title before the decree it is sufficient. If property is advertised for sale and one offers by letter a price, the property being exposed to sale no other person bids as much, and the property is afterward conveyed according to the offer by letter, the property may be said to be sold at auction, and direction of a testator to have his property sold at auction is substantially complied with. A feme executrix may execute an authority without her husband, and her deed as executrix for land devised to be sold is valid, although she is not privily examined. Several objections are made to the propriety of the decree. The first we shall notice is founded upon Wallace's claim to one of the lots in Standford. This objection is certainly entitled to very little weight. It does not appear that at the time of the sale under the execution Jordan had the legal title to the lot in question; and it is clear according to the repeated FN(a) decisions of this Court, that a mere equitable title cannot be sold under execution. Besides, it does not appear that Wallace ever attempted to acquire the possession of the lot, or that he even had obtained a conveyance therefor from the sheriff; and finally, before the hearing of this cause he relinquished and disclaimed all his title or interest in the lot, having his debt on Jordan otherwise satisfied or secured. FN(a). Hancock v. Brinker, ante 250. *2 A second objection is founded upon the circumstance that subsequent to the time of entering into the contract with Tyree, Jordan became insolvent. In point of fact this is admitted to be true, and it is obvious that a warranty from Jordan alone would be less beneficial to the bargainee than at the time of the contract he had a right to expect; but the decree of the Court below in this case requires, as a previous condition upon which the lot in Lexington is to be conveyed, that a person to whose solvency there is no objection, shall join in the warranty. Without, therefore, deciding whether the insolvency of Jordan, if no responsible person were required to join him in the warranty, would be a sufficient objection to prevent the specific execution of the contract, it is plain that the force of the objection is destroyed by the requisitions of such a security. The third objection which demands the attention of the Court is founded upon the delay in the execution of the contract on the part of Jordan. Where a time is fixed for the performance of a contract, it is at law considered to be of the essence of the contract; but unless the parties have expressly stipulated that it shall be so, it is otherwise considered in a Court of Equity, and its execution will be decreed notwithstanding the time has elapsed for its performance, FN(a) unless there has been a culpable negligence or a willful delay on the part of him who is seeking the aid of a Court of Equity. But where there is no time appointed for the performance of an agreement, as in this case, either party may even at law have a remedy at any period within the time prescribed by the statute of limitations, provided he shows himself ready to perform the agreement on his part. A fortiori will a Court of Equity extend its aid in such a case. But there is the less reason for sustaining the objection in this case, since it appears that each party was put into the peaceable possession of the property for which he had contracted, and for aught that appears to the contrary has continued so ever since. It is true that at the time of filing the bill Jordan had not obtained a conveyance for one of the lots in Standford; but it was afterward, on the 25th of August next after the bill was filed, conveyed by the trustees of the town of Standford to the complainant Williams; and the defendant Mason in his answer to the original bill, which was in fact filed subsequent to the date of the conveyance to Williams, admits his willingness to convey the Lexington lot upon the execution of the contract on the part of Jordan: nor was there any objection made on the score of delay, until the fact of the conveyance to Williams was disclosed in a supplemental bill. It is apparent, therefore, that the objection is disingenuous, and having once waived it, the defendant could have no right afterward to insist upon it. FN(a). Gibson v. Patterson, 1 Atk. 12--Puicke v. Curtis, 4 Bro. Ch. Rep. 329--Lloyd v. Collett, ibid 469--1 Vez. jr. 221, 210--3 Vez. jr. 625-- 5 Vez. jr. 818--and see Omerod v. Hardman, 6 Vez. jr. 736-7. *3 The fourth and last objection we shall notice questions the sufficiency of Jordon's title to one of the lots in Standford. This lot was conveyed to Jordan by Samuel Baird and Mary M. Bell, surviving executor and executrix of William Henderson, deceased. Henderson being possessed of the legal title to this lot, made his will, by which, after devising all his real and personal estate to his wife, he directed all his possessions in the town of Standford to be sold at public auction by his executors at twelve months credit. The lot in question was advertised and exposed to public sale. A few days before the sale, Jordan by letter informed the executors what price he would give, and no person having bid as much on the day of sale, the lot was afterward conveyed to him at the price he had offered. It is admitted that Mrs. Henderson, now Mrs. Bell, had intermarried with her present husband before she executed the deed of conveyance to Jordan, and that she was at that time a feme covert. It is contended in the first place, that Jordan's title is defective, because the sale to him was not at public auction, as the will had directed. The object of the testator in requiring a sale at public auction, was no doubt to obtain as high a price as possible; and as the price given for the lot by Jordan was greater than any other person was willing to give at auction, that object was fully attained, and the intention of the testator substantially complied with. But perhaps the sale to Jordan ought in strict propriety to be denominated a sale at auction. It is not necessary that a person should be present at an auction to become a purchaser; he may, as Jordan did in this case make his bid by letter. As his bid was the highest, and the lot was in fact exposed to public sale, he may well be considered the purchaser at the sale. But it is contended in the second place that Mrs. Bell could not legally execute the conveyance without joining with her husband, and being privily examined, as the law concerning conveyances directs. There is no doubt that a feme covert may act en auter droit without her husband. It is said if cestui que usc had devised that his wife should sell his land, and made her executrix and died, and she took another husband, that she might sell the land to her husband, for she did it en auter droit, and her husband should be in by the devisor--Co. Litt. 112 a. Mr. Hargrave, in his annotation upon this passage in Coke, says "it is agreed in the books that a wife may without her husband execute a naked authority, whether given before or after coverture; and the rule (he observes) is the same where both an interest and an authority pass to the wife, if the authority is collateral to, and doth not flow from the interest; because then the two are as unconnected as if they were vested in different persons"--Note 6 to Co. Litt. 112 a. In this case there is no doubt that Mrs. Bell had an interest in the lot conveyed to Jordan: for all the estate, both real and personal, was devised to her But the interest vested in her individual right, and the authority to sell was given to her in the capacity of executrix. The latter, therefore, did not flow from the former, but was collateral thereto; and consequently they were as unconnected as if they had been vested in different persons. Upon the principles of the common law, then, it is evident Mrs. Bell might, without her husband joining, execute the conveyance: and it is clear that the statute concerning conveyances can have no effect upon the case, for that statute only enables a feme covert to convey her interest or estate by observing the requisites prescribed in cases where she could not do so before, but does not disable her from executing an authority which she might do according to the principles of the common law. *4 Decree affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Tyree v. Williams 3 Bibb 365, 6 Ky. 365, 1814 WL 793 (Ky.), 6 Am.Dec. 663 END OF DOCUMENT
