(Cite as: 2 Bibb 294,  5 Ky. 294 (Ky.),  1811 WL 781 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bruce v. Mathers. Spring Term, 1811. *1 On a covenant that an apprentice shall serve four years, and not depart without leave, the master may have covenant before the end of the term for the departure, but not for loss of service for the remainder of the term. After demurrer and opinion given, the Court may give leave to withdraw demurrer--Vide Violet v. Dale, vol. i, 144. Upon withdrawing demurrer, if a disposition to vex by offering repeatedly frivolous replications is manifested, the Court should refuse leave for farther amendment of the pleadings; but a single mistake is not ground for refusing a second application to amend--Vide vol. i, Rochester v. Dun, 412--Jones v. Grugett, 449. Plea that apprentice departed with consent of the master is a good plea to an action of covenant upon the covenant to serve. Surplusage in pleading does not vitiate. Duplicity in pleading is by blending in the same plea two or more substantive matters of defense or avoidance; but idle or impertinent matter, not traversable, does not make a plea double. In general a party ought to be permitted to demur in due time, whenever he thinks his adversary's plea objectionable. But when he has obtained the opinion of the Court in another mode, and excepted to that opinion, the Court may refuse to receive a demurrer. Where issue to the country is joined upon one plea and judgment for plaintiff on demurrer to another plea (to ame count) it is erroneous to charge the jury to inquire of damages only. West Headnotes Pleading 302 k 197 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k197 k. Right to Demur, and Leave of Court. Most Cited Cases Where the court have given their opinion that a plea is good, and the plaintiff has excepted to that opinion, they may refuse to receive a demurrer to the plea. Pleading 302 k 339 302 Pleading 302XIV Withdrawal 302k339 k. In General. Most Cited Cases After an opinion is given overruling a demurrer, the court may, in their discretion, give leave to withdraw the demurrer and plead. Labor and Employment 231H k 925 231H Labor and Employment 231HX Apprentices 231Hk925 k. In General. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 255k9.1  Master and Servant, 32k12  Apprentices) On a covenant that an apprentice shall serve four years, and not depart without leave, the master may maintain an action before the end of the term for the departure, but not for loss of service for the residue of the term. Damages 115 k 194 115 Damages 115X Proceedings for Assessment 115k193 Inquest on Default or Interlocutory Judgment 115k194 k. Nature and Form of Proceeding. Most Cited  Cases Where issue to the country has been joined upon one plea, and judgment is given for the plaintiff on a demurrer to another plea to the same count, it is erroneous to charge the jury to inquire of damages only. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *2 ON the 27th of November, 1805, Bruce, by his deed, bound his son, Austin Bruce, to Mathers, as an apprentice to learn the trade of a blacksmith, and among other things covenanted that his son should serve Mathers for the term of four years from the said 27th of November 1805, and should not depart or absent himself from the service of Mathers, without his leave. Before the expiration of the four years, Mathers instituted an action of covenant against Bruce upon this deed, and assigned for a breach that the said Austin did not serve, and continue to dwell with the plaintiff Mathers for the said term of four years, but on the ____ day of _______ departed from his service without his consent. To this action Bruce pleaded four several pleas, on the 1st, 3d and 4th of which issues were joined. To the second plea the plaintiff demurred, but the demurrer being overruled he tendered a replication and moved for leave to withdraw his demurrer. This motion having been refused, on account of the insufficiency of the replication, he drew and tendered a second replication, and again moved to withdraw the demurrer. This motion was objected to by the defendant: 1. Because a second application of this kind ought not to be indulged; and 2. Because the replication last offered was multifarious, and tendered several points, and was not calculated to try the merits of the cause. But the Court overruled the objections and permitted the plaintiff, to withdraw the demurrer and file his replication. The defendant then drew and tendered a special demurrer to the replication, and insisted upon filing it; to which the plaintiff objected, and the Court sustained the objection, alleging that the merits of the plaintiff's replication had been considered and adjudged sufficient, before the Court suffered him to withdraw his demurrer, and that the defendant had filed his exception to the opinion of the Court on that point. The defendant refusing to join issue upon the plaintiff's replication to the second plea, otherwise than by the demurrer he had offered, the plaintiff moved the Court to have the jury sworn to inquire of damages only, without being sworn to try the issues joined, to which the defendant objected, and insisted upon their being sworn to try the issues; but the Court directed the jury to be sworn to inquire of damages only, which was accordingly done; and for the damages so assessed by the jury, a final judgment was given by the plaintiff; to which the defendant prosecutes this writ of error. The points made by the assignments of error, are the following, viz: 1. That the suit was prematurely brought, the four years in the covenant mentioned not having expired; 2. That the Court ought not to have permitted the plaintiff to withdraw his demurrer, and file the replication to the second plea; 3. That the Court ought not to have prohibited the defendant from filing his demurrer to the plaintiff's replication; 4. That the Court ought not to have directed the jury to be sworn to inquire of damages only, without trying the issue joined. *3 The first point is clearly not maintainable. The departure of the apprentice from the service of the plaintiff, without his consent, was a breach of the covenant, and give the plaintiff an immediate cause of action. In the case of Horn v. Chandler, 1 Mod. 271, upon demurrer to a declaration in covenant, against an apprentice for leaving his service, whereby the plaintiff lost his service for the said term, which was not then expired, it was held by Twysden justice, "though it had been naught after verdict, yet being on demurrer it may be helped, for the plaintiff may take damages for the departure from the service only, and not for the loss of service during the term, and then it will be well enough." Had the plaintiff in this case declared for the loss of service for the whole term, the verdict being for damages generally, would be erroneous--Hambleton v. Veeres, 2 Saund. 196, Ibid 171, n. 1. But although there is some ambiguity in the manner of assigning the breach of the covenant, the better construction seems to be, that the breach intended to be complained of, is for the departure from the service only, for there is no averment of the loss of service for the whole term, nor for any given length of time. In such case, the plaintiff could legally have given evidence of the damages sustained by the departure only, to which the jury in their inquiry ought to have confined themselves; and what ought to be done we must presume to have been done, unless the contrary had been made to appear. As to the second point, it may be remarked, that it has been frequently held by this Court that after a demurrer has been overruled, the party may have leave to withdraw his demurrer, and plead, reply or rejoin, as the case may require, and this has been permitted even after a judgment of the Court below sustaining the demurrer, and the cause has been brought to this Court and that judgment reversed--Hammond v. Alexander, vol. i, 133. But an objection is in this case made to the propriety of giving leave to withdraw the demurrer and reply, because a previous application had been made for that purpose and rejected on account of the insufficiency of the replication that was offered. With respect to mere points of practice of this sort, a considerable latitude of discretion must necessarily be confided to the Courts. Such a discretion is indispensable for the attainment of the purposes of justice, and when it is not so exercised as to defeat or delay those purposes, it cannot be said to be abused or be liable to correction. Repeated applications of this kind, upon offering to plead frivolous matter, would afford such evidence of chicanery and delay as would deserve to be repelled by the Court. But a single mistake, which is immediately offered to be corrected, cannot with propriety be ascribed to motives of chicanery. To bind the parties to abide by every unintentional mistake of their counsel in their pleadings, especially where those pleadings, as in this country, are frequently, from necessity, to be drawn in the hurry of business during term time, would be productive of great hardship and injustice. This objection, therefore, seems not to be maintainable. *4 Another objection is made to the withdrawal of the demurrer, because the replication permitted to be filed was insufficient on account of its duplicity. To determine the weight to which this objection is entitled, it is necessary to advert to the plea as well as to the replication. The plea in substance avers that the said Austin, the son of the defendant, continued to serve the plaintiff as an apprentice until the____day of____, when the plaintiff, without the knowledge or consent of the defendant, entered into an agreement with the said Austin, to give up all claim to any future service, in consideration of the said Austin's agreeing to pay to the plaintiff the sum of _____, in the month of September following, and that in consequence of said agreement the said plaintiff consented to the said Austin's quitting his service. The replication, by distinct averments, denies the several parts of the agreement as alleged in the plea, and avers that the plaintiff did not, in consideration of the said agreement of the said Austin to pay to him the sum of ____ in the September following, consent that the said Austin should leave his service. It is clear that the only material traversable point tendered in the plea, was the consent of the plaintiff that the apprentice might quit his service. Such an agreement between the master and apprentice as is alleged in the plea, cannot be admitted to be valid and binding; but whether binding or not, or whether in fact it existed or not, would be wholly immaterial, since, if the plaintiff consented to the departure of the apprentice from his service, whatever might be the inducement to the consent, such departure would not be a breach of the covenant. The replication, by denying the consent of the plaintiff, has, therefore, traversed the only traversable point in the plea; and although by following the example given in the plea, the plaintiff in his replication has introduced much surplus matter, yet the replication cannot on that account be deemed bad; for it is a settled maxim that surplusage does not vitiate--utile per inutile non vitiatur. Every plea ought to be single; but mere idle impertinent matter cannot render a plea double. Duplicity consists in the tender of issue in the same plea upon several points either of which would be traversable. The replication, therefore, in this case does not appear objectionable on account of its duplicity. With respect to the third point, it is in general true that a party ought to be permitted to file a demurrer to his adversary's plea, replication, etc., whenever he may think them objectionable; because he is not only entitled to the opinion of the Court below upon the case, but has a right to a revision of that opinion in the Appellate Court. But where the party has taken his objection in another manner, and by an exception to the opinion of the Court below, has presented the question in a shape to be decided by this Court, it is not only unnecessary, but vexatious for that party to make the same point by demurrer. Since, however, we have adjudged the replication sufficient, had the demurrer been filed it could not have been sustained. *5 The fourth point made by the assignment of error is clearly correct. As there were three issues joined, any one of which being decided for the defendant would have entitled him to a judgment, it was manifestly erroneous in the Court to direct the jury to be sworn to inquire of damages only. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded to the Circuit Court for new proceedings to be had therein not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1811. Bruce v. Mathers 2 Bibb 294, 5 Ky. 294, 1811 WL 781 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
