(Cite as: 4 Bibb 85,  7 Ky. 85 (Ky.),  1815 WL 672 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. M'Ilvoy v. Speed. Jun. 2, 1815. *1 The correctness of the decision of a Court of competent jurisdiction, cannot be inquired into when brought collaterally or incidentally into question. See vol. 1, Reed v. Hatcher, 347--Dupuy v. Johnson, 565. The County Court may direct an alteration in a road upon the condition that the new road be opened by the applicant. After the new road is opened and used for years, the overseer appointed to keep it in repair, may justify under the order of Court, without shewing that the road had been cut out by the applicant; and it was not material to inquire by whom the road was opened. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 470 228 Judgment 228XI Collateral Attack 228XI(A) Judgments Impeachable Collaterally 228k470 k. Judgments Presumed Valid in General. Most Cited  Cases A judgment of a court having jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject-matter cannot be attacked collaterally. Highways 200 k 96(1) 200 Highways 200VI Highway Districts and Officers 200k96 Duties and Liabilities 200k96(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases The county court may direct an alteration in a road upon the condition that the new road be opened by the applicant;  and, after the new road is opened and used for years, the overseer appointed to keep it in repair may justify under the order of the court without showing that the road had been opened by the applicant. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of trespass quare clausum fregit. The defendant plead the general issue; and for further plea alleged in substance, that by an order of the County Court of Lincoln county, in 1784, a public road was established from the public square in Danville to the old road leading from Crow's Station to Harrodsburg; that the Mercer County Court, at their January term, 1800, (then having jurisdiction over said road) ordered a part thereof to be altered, so soon as the applicant for said alteration should open the same as the law required; that the same was afterward opened in pursuance of said order, and has continued ever since, viz: for the space of 12 years, to be used by the citizens of the Commonwealth as a public highway; that at the October term, 1811, of said County Court, the defendant was appointed overseer of said road, in virtue of which appointment and in discharge of the duties of his said office, he entered upon the close of said plaintiff, over which the said road passes, at the time in the declaration mentioned, and did then and there, in a peaceable manner, as he lawfully might do, remove the said plaintiff's fence, which he had illegally placed across said road, which is the same trespass in the declaration alleged. To this plea the plaintiff replied generally, and issue was thereupon joined. On the trial the defendant produced in evidence the several orders of the County Court, substantially as stated in his plea; and the plaintiff moved the Court to instruct the jury that the order altering the original road was void; but the Court refused to give the instructions. He then moved the Court to instruct the jury that the defendant could not support his plea, unless he proved that the applicant for the alteration of the road had opened it agreeably to the conditions of said order; but the Court refused to give this instruction also, and the plaintiff excepted. A verdict and judgment being given for the defendant, the plaintiff has brought the case before this Court upon a writ of error. *2 The first question is, whether the order of the County Court altering the road, is void or not? It was contended to be void, because it was not absolute, but was made to take effect upon the road being opened by the appellant. But why this circumstance should render the order void, we cannot perceive any satisfactory reason. An order to alter or change a road must from the time it takes effect, operate as a virtual abolition of the old road. It would therefore seem to be improper that such an order should be made to take effect until the new road should be opened; and certainly if the County Court may make such an order, to take effect upon the new road being opened, there can be nothing improper in requiring it to be opened by the applicant. But supposing the order in question to be irregular in this respect still we apprehend it would not be void. It might be erroneous, and subject to be reversed by an appeal or writ of error; but it must be binding and valid while it remains unreversed. The County Courts have jurisdiction over roads, and it is unquestionably a sound principle, that the correctness of a judgment of a Court in relation to a subject over which it has jurisdiction, cannot be inquired into when brought collaterally or incidentally in question. We are, therefore, of opinion that the order of the County Court was not void, and that the Court below correctly refused to give the instructions asked for by the plaintiff on this point. The next question is, whether that Court erred in refusing to instruct the jury that the defendant could not support his plea, unless he proved that the road had been opened by the applicant for the order. The object in requiring the road to be opened by the applicant, was no doubt to ease those who were bound to work upon the road, of that labor, and they could not regularly have been compelled to have performed it; but if they voluntarily opened the road, it would be a substantial compliance with the order. The event upon which the order was to take effect, would thereby have been produced, though not by the agency of the applicant; and the latter could not otherwise be material, than as an easement to others, who might, if they chose, forego such an easement. To require the defendant to prove that the road had been opened by the applicant himself, would, therefore, be requiring what the spirit and reason of the order did not make indispensable. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. McIlvoy v. Speed 4 Bibb 85, 7 Ky. 85, 1815 WL 672 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
