(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 11,  19 Ky. 11 (Ky.),  1825 WL 1176 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Perkins v. Spalding & Jones. Nov. 11, 1825. *1 Appeals to Circuit Court. Breaches. Bonds. Conditions. ERROR TO THE LAWRENCE CIRCUIT; SILAS W. ROBBINS, JUDGE. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 1232 30 Appeal and Error 30XVIII Liabilities on Bonds and Undertakings 30k1228 Accrual or Release of Liability by Breach or Fulfillment of Conditions 30k1232 k. Affirmance or Reversal of Judgment or Order. Most  Cited Cases An appeal bond to prosecute the appeal with good effect, and pay all costs and damages awarded against appellant "in case the judgment should be affirmed," creates no liability if the appellate judgment is merely for a portion of the costs without affirming the judgment below. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. Statement. This was an action of debt on a bond executed by Spalding, and Jones as his security, on an appeal taken to the circuit court of Floyd, from a judgment for $41 66 cents debt, besides costs, obtained by Perkins against Spalding, before a justice of the peace. The condition of the bond is, that "Spalding should prosecute said appeal with good effect, and pay all costs and damages awarded against him, in case the judgment aforesaid should be affirmed." Condition of the bond declared upon. And, for breach of the condition, the declaration alleges, in substance, that Spalding did not prosecute the appeal with good effect, but that, at the July term, 1821, of the Floyd circuit court, said appeal came on to be heard, and by consent of the parties, it was considered by the court, that the appellee recover of the appellant, all the costs, before that time expended in said appeal by the appellee, except an attorney's fee, together with his costs expended before the justice of the peace; and it is than averred that the costs aforesaid amount to $11 15 cents, and that neither Spalding nor Jones had paid said costs. Assignment of breach. On a demurrer to the declaration, the circuit court gave judgment for the defendants; to which the plaintiff prosecutes this writ of error. Judgment of the Circuit Court against the declaration. The amount in controversy in this case is evidently too insignificant to justify the expenses of the parties, necessarily incurred in bringing it to this court, even if the judgment of the circuit court had been erroneous; but the judgment of that court is clearly correct. The breach alleged in the condition of the bond is manifestly insufficient to shew a forfeiture of the penalty, and of course is insufficient to maintain the action. The condition of the bond having only required Spalding to prosecute the appeal with good effect, and pay all costs and damages awarded against him, in case the judgment should be affirmed. The judgment, by consent of the parties for a part of the costs only, shews clearly that the appeal was prosecuted with good effect, and of course that the first part of the condition was complied with, and as the judgment of the justice was not affirmed, the non payment of the costs could be no breach of the latter part of the condition. *2 The condition of an appeal bond to prosecute the appeal with good effect, and pay all costs and damages awarded against him, in case the judgment should be affirmed, is not broken by nonpayment of the judgment rendered by the Circuit Court against appellant, for all the costs in both tribunals, an attorney's fee excepted. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Triplett, for plaintiff; Monroe, for defendants. Ky.App. 1825. Perkins v. Spalding 3 T.B.Mon. 11, 19 Ky. 11, 1825 WL 1176 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
