(Cite as: 4 Bibb 165,  7 Ky. 165 (Ky.),  1815 WL 704 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Lillard v. M'Gee. Oct. 3, 1815. *1 Pending an action of slander, Lillard conveyed his property to his father-in-law, with the avowed intention of defeating the effect of the action; he sold at auction without previous notice or advertisement. He continued in the possession exercising acts of ownership after the sale. It was of all his estate without any apparent necessity or sufficient motive; these are badges of fraud. A person who recovers a judgment in slander is a creditor within the meaning of the statute. And subsequent as well as previous creditors are within its provisions. Frauds vitiated at common law. But that fraud must have been to the prejudice of a pre-existing right, to avoid the sale and in this respect the statute varies from the common law. But one who is injured in his reputation has such a pre-existing right as to avoid the sale for the purpose of satisfying the after liquidated damages. Property so fraudulently conveyed may be sold by execution. But a Court of Equity has nevertheless jurisdiction of the fraud, to clear away the impediment to a full price for the property when exposed for sale. West Headnotes Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 146(1) 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186I Transfers and Transactions Invalid 186I(K) Retention of Possession or Apparent Title by Grantor 186k146 Possession by Husband, Wife or Other  Relatives 186k146(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A. obtained a judgment against B. A few days before the judgment was rendered, B. conveyed all his real and personal estate to his father-in-law.  A. brought his bill to set aside the sale, and proved an express avowal of B. to sell and defeat a recovery by A. The sale was unconditional, without any apparent necessity, and B. still continued in possession and exercised acts of ownership.  Held, that the sale was fraudulent. Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 208 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186III Remedies of Creditors and Purchasers 186III(A) Persons Entitled to Assert Invalidity 186k207 Subsequent Creditors 186k208 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a sale was made to defeat the recovery of a judgment, it was held that the plaintiff, though not technically a creditor at the time of the sale, could nevertheless attack it as fraudulent after he had obtained his judgment, since the statute against fraudulent conveyances embraces subsequent, as well as previous, creditors. Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 213 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186III Remedies of Creditors and Purchasers 186III(A) Persons Entitled to Assert Invalidity 186k212 Nature of Claims of Creditors 186k213 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where a sale was made to defeat the recovery of a judgment, plaintiff, though not technically a creditor at the time of sale, became so on the recovery of the judgment. Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 215 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186III Remedies of Creditors and Purchasers 186III(A) Persons Entitled to Assert Invalidity 186k212 Nature of Claims of Creditors 186k215 k. For Torts. Most Cited  Cases A judgment creditor whose judgment is founded on a tort may sue to set aside a fraudulent conveyance by the judgment debtor prior to the recovery of the judgment. Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 215 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186III Remedies of Creditors and Purchasers 186III(A) Persons Entitled to Assert Invalidity 186k212 Nature of Claims of Creditors 186k215 k. For Torts. Most Cited  Cases A voluntary conveyance to defeat a claim of a third person to damages for a tort is void at common law as against such third person. Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 215 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186III Remedies of Creditors and Purchasers 186III(A) Persons Entitled to Assert Invalidity 186k212 Nature of Claims of Creditors 186k215 k. For Torts. Most Cited  Cases A voluntary conveyance made with intent to defeat any recovery which might be had in an action of slander than pending will not be sustained by a court of chancery against the judgment when obtained. Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 237(2) 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186III Remedies of Creditors and Purchasers 186III(C) Right of Action to Set Aside Transfer, and Defenses 186k237 Nature and Form of Remedy 186k237(2) k. Remedy by Suit in Equity. Most Cited  Cases Though a judgment creditor may proceed at law to sell under execution property which his debtor has fraudulently conveyed, as if there had been no such conveyance, the existence of such a legal remedy does not prevent the creditor from resorting to a suit in equity to have the fraudulent conveyance set aside. Fraudulent Conveyances 186 k 237(2) 186 Fraudulent Conveyances 186III Remedies of Creditors and Purchasers 186III(C) Right of Action to Set Aside Transfer, and Defenses 186k237 Nature and Form of Remedy 186k237(2) k. Remedy by Suit in Equity. Most Cited  Cases Although property conveyed fraudulently may be taken on execution, yet, as the colorable title may prevent or prejudice the sale, equity will interpose. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *2 PENDING an action of slander, brought by M'Gee against Lillard, the latter sold and conveyed his real and personal estate to his father-in-law Hughes; and M'Gee having in a few days thereafter obtained a judgment in the action of slander for a considerable sum, filed his bill against Lillard and Hughes, to set aside the sale and conveyance as fraudulent, and to subject the propetry to be sold in satisfaction of the judgment. The Court below pronounced a decree accordingly; from which this appeal is prosecuted. It is impossible not to believe that the sale in this case was fraudulent. Besides the express avowal of Lillard that he would make a conveyance of his property to defeat the recovery in the action of slander, the transaction is accompanied with all the usual badges of fraud. The sale was of all his estate, without any apparent necessity or motive of propriety for it. It was made pending the action, and under the form of an auction, without having previously advertised or otherwise having made it generally known; and notwithstanding the sale was absolute and unconditional, Lillard continued in the possession of the property, exercising acts of ownership over it. The sale must therefore be deemed fraudulent. It was made a question at the bar, whether M'Gee was a creditor within the meaning of the statute against fraudulent conveyances? Technically speaking, he was certainly not a creditor at the time of the sale; but he became so on the recovery of the judgment; and the statute embraces subsequent, as well as previous creditors. Such has been the exposition given by the British Courts to the English statute of the 13th Elizabeth, from which the statute in this country has been taken.--See Newland on contracts 389, and the cases there cited. But independent of the statute, M'Gee might unquestionably avail himself of the fraud, to set aside the sale and subject the property to be sold in satisfaction of his demand; for fraud was always odious to the common law, and not less vitiating in its effect upon a contract before than since the statute. A man cannot indeed, according to the principles of the common law, be said to be injured by a wrong done, unless it were done in prejudice of a previously existing right; and in this respect the statute varies from the common law. But M'Gee was possessed of such a right; for at the time the sale was made, he had a right to a reparation in damages for the injury done to his reputation; and the fraud in the sale was in fact no less prejudicial to him than if it had been committed after the rendition of the judgment. Another question made at the bar, was, whether a Court of Chancery has jurisdiction of the case? It is contended as the statute against frauds and perjuries has declared the conveyance void, that the party may without the aid of a Court of Equity take and sell the property by virtue of an execution; and that therefore that Court has no jurisdiction. The premises of this argument are no doubt correct; but the inference does not result as a legal consequence. Fraud is one of the main pillars of the jurisdiction of a Court of Equity, and there is no question of its competency, prior to the statute, to give relief in a case of this sort. *3 Now as the statute is made in affirmance, not in derogation of the common law, it cannot have the effect of taking from a Court of Equity its jurisdiction; for it is a settled rule, that an affirmative statute does not repeal the common law. Beside, notwithstanding the property may be taken by execution, the colorable title under the fraudulent conveyance may either prevent or so prejudice the sale, as to be injurious to the creditor; and this effect of the fraud can only be obviated by the interposition of a Court of Equity. Decree affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Lillard v. McGee 4 Bibb 165, 7 Ky. 165, 1815 WL 704 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
