(Cite as: 4 Litt. 212,  14 Ky. 212 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1256 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Booker v. Meriwether. Oct. 18, 1823. *1 FROM THE SHELBY CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. HENRY DAVIDGE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 416 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k416 k. Insufficiency or Illegality of Cause of Action.  Most Cited Cases Where a grantee receives the deed without an obligation binding the grantor to obtain relinquishment of his wife's dower, the fact that such relinquishment has not been obtained is no ground for enjoining the collection of a judgment for the purchase money, where there has been no breach of warranty by eviction. Covenants 108 k 102(2) 108 Covenants 108III Performance or Breach 108k99 Covenant of Warranty 108k102 Eviction 108k102(2) k. Sufficiency. Most Cited  Cases To entitle a party to relief on a covenant of warranty, for eviction from land, the eviction must be shown to have been by a paramount title. Covenants 108 k 122 108 Covenants 108IV Actions for Breach 108k117 Evidence 108k122 k. Weight and Sufficiency. Most Cited  Cases To show an eviction, a grantee proved that his grantor's grantor had recovered a judgment against a third person, sustaining his claim to the land and directing the mode of its survey, which direction omitted a part included in the original survey.  A witness then testified that such omitted part was covered by the field notes of the land deeded to the grantee, which field notes witness had seen, but which were not produced, and witness did not swear that the field notes were of the same boundaries as were described in the deed.  Held insufficient to show such an eviction of the said portion as would constitute a breach of warranty. HARDIN for plaintiff; TALBOT and CRITTENDEN for defendant. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. On the 13th of May, 1804, Meriwether purchased of Lynch 265 acres of land, at the price of $2,200, and received from Lynch a deed of conveyance therefor, with warranty; and, on the 17th of July, 1812, on a settlement with Lynch, he fell indebted to him ninety-three pounds, eight shillings, the balance of the price of the land, and executed his obligation to Lynch for the payment of that sum in horses. This obligation was afterwards assigned by Lynch to Booker, who brought suit thereon and recovered judgment at law against Meriwether, and to stay proceedings upon that judgment, Meriwether filed his bill, with injunction, alleging as grounds for relief, 1st, that a little upwards of twenty acres of the land conveyed by Lynch to him, had been lost by a decree of the general court; 2d, that Mrs. Lynch had not relinquished her right of dower; and 3d, that Lynch was indebted to Nicholas Meriwether, and the latter to Meriwether, the complainant. *2 Evidence of eviction, held insufficient to entitle the party to relief in equity on a covenant of warranty. The eviction must be shown to have been by paramount title. A deed with general warranty, without relinquishment of dower, is evidence that the purchaser relied on the warranty of the husband, and furnishes no ground to enjoin any part of the purchase money, unless the purchaser shall have been disturbed by the claim of dower. Booker, in his answer, controverts these several grounds of relief, and alleges, moreover, that he was induced to take an assignment of the obligation on Meriwether, by his promises and assurances that it was a just debt, and that he would pay it. During the progress of the cause, the injunction was dissolved, on motion, and the money made out of Meriwether by execution; and on a final hearing the circuit court being of opinion that the loss of twenty acres and fifty poles of the land conveyed by Lynch to Meriwether was sufficiently established, decreed fifty pounds, the price thereof, to be refunded by Booker to Meriwether. To reverse that decree, Booker has prosecuted this writ of error. The only question which is directly presented, in reviewing the decision of the circuit court, is, whether the evidence in the record is sufficient to show such an eviction of Meriwether from twenty acres and fifty poles of the land conveyed by Lynch to him, as will entitle him to relief. Of parties to a suit in chancery. To establish the eviction, Meriwether has exhibited the copy of a decree of the general court, in a suit in which Nicholas Meriwether, under whom Lynch derives title, was complainant, and Stafford was defendant, sustaining N. Meriwether's claim, and directing the mode of surveying it; and he proves by a witness, that the mode in which the claim was directed by the decree to be surveyed, leaves out a part of the land which was included in the original survey; and he also proves by the same witness, that a part of the land so left out of the survey decreed, and included in the original survey, is covered by field-notes of the land deeded by Lynch to him, which the witness had seen in the handwriting of John Newland, clerk. This is the substance of the whole evidence contained in the record upon this point, and it is manifestly wholly insufficient to establish such an eviction as would entitle Meriwether to recover upon the warranty contained in the deed from Lynch to him. To entitle himself to recover for the eviction, he ought to have shown that it was by a paramount title; and there is no evidence of the superiority of Stafford's claim to that of Nicholas Meriwether. Lynch was no party to the suit in the general court, and the decree of that court being made long after the derivation of Lynch's title from Nicholas Meriwether, can be no evidence against Lynch, or any one claiming under Lynch; and the title papers of Stafford or of Nicholas Meriwether are not exhibited. Besides, the evidence to show that the land claimed by Nicholas Meriwether, and not decreed to him, is included in the tract conveyed by Lynch to Meriwether, the complainant, is defective; for the witness only swears that it was included in field-notes of the land deeded by Lynch, which he had seen; but the field-notes are not produced, and the witness does not pretend to swear that he knew that they were the same of the boundaries described in the deed from Lynch to Meriwether. The ground, therefore, upon which the circuit court founded its decree, is unsupported by the evidence in the cause, and the decree, of course, must be reversed; but, before we can direct what decree should be rendered, when the cause is remanded, it is necessary to notice the other grounds on which Meriwether asserts his claim to relief. With respect to these, however, we have no hesitation in concurring with the circuit court, that his claim to relief can not be sustained. *3 As to Mrs. Lynch's not having relinquished her dower, it is sufficient to remark, that Meriwether having received the deed from Lynch without taking from him any written memorandum, binding him to make further assurance, or to procure the relinquishment of dower, he must be understood as trusting exclusively to Lynch's warranty; and to give him relief on the ground of dower not having been relinquished before a breach of the warranty by an eviction, would be directly contrary to the express letter of the statute against frauds and perjuries. As to the claim to relief on the ground of Lynch's being indebted to N. Meriwether, and the latter to the complainant, it must be considered as having been abandoned in the court below; for no step was taken to bring N. Meriwether before the court, and unless proper steps had been taken to bring him before the court, no relief on this ground could be granted. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause be remanded, that the bill may be dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Booker v. Meriwether 4 Litt. 212, 14 Ky. 212, 1823 WL 1256 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
