(Cite as: 2 Bibb 473,  5 Ky. 473 (Ky.),  1811 WL 861 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Elliot v. Ailsberry. Fall Term, 1811. *1 Words spoken of a person not relating to a trade, profession or occupation, to be in themselves actionable must charge an offense that would subject the person to corporeal or other infamous punishment. To charge a female with want of chastity is not actionable. West Headnotes Libel and Slander 237 k 7(18) 237 Libel and Slander 237I Words and Acts Actionable, and Liability Therefor 237k7 Words Imputing Crime and Immorality 237k7(18) k. Fornication, Incest, and Rape. Most Cited  Cases It is not actionable to charge a female with fornication where the punishment for want of chastity is only a pecuniary fine. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of slander for words alleged to be spoken of the plaintiff by the defendant, importing a charge of fornication. The verdict and judgment having been given for the defendant in the Court below, the plaintiff has appealed to this Court. The first and most material question in the case is whether the words are actionable or not? It does not admit of a doubt that words of a similar import were not actionable in England, unless they were spoken of a female in London, where by the custom of the place prostitution was punishable by carting. In that country however, offenses against chastity were subjects of ecclesiastical cognizance only, and not punishable in common law Courts, but in this country such offenses are subject to be punished by fine. A question then occurs whether the infliction of a peculiar penalty, upon the person guilty of such offense, renders the words actionable upon the principles of the common law. We have not been able to find any case in the English books which support the affirmative of this question. In the case of Turner v. Ogden, 2 Salk. 696, Holt, Chief Justice, held that words to be actionable must charge an offense subject to an infamous punishment. This necessarily implies that the punishment should be something more than a pecuniary fine. Comyns, in his digest, classes words which are actionable when spoken of a common person into, 1st, "Words which endanger his life;" and 2dly, "Words which endanger corporeal punishment." But he has given no class of cases in which words imputing an offense which is subject to a pecuniary penalty only have been held actionable, nor is there any such an one to be found in the copious collection he has made of the cases upon this subject. The same observation applies with respect to the cases compiled in Bacon's abridgment. The rule therefore evidently deducible from the whole of the adjudged cases is, that words to be actionable must charge an offense subject to corporeal or other infamous punishment. Were words which impute an offense against chastity held actionable, upon the principle that the offense was subject to a pecuniary penalty, the same rule ought to be applied to words importing a charge of Sabbath-breaking, profane swearing, drunkenness or any other offense punishable in the same way; because in such cases the same principle would be applicable. If we adopt a principle, we must pursue it whithersoever it may conduct us, or we shall inevitably be inconsistent with ourselves. Such an extension however, of the right to an action for slanderous words as the principle in question would lead to, cannot be contended for on the score of expediency, and must be admitted to be wholly unwarranted by the rules of the common law. If it be said that an offense against chastity is distinguishable from others punishable with pecuniary penalties, in being more degrading to the character, it may be answered that this is a distinction which the law has not made, and where the law has made no distinction, judging according to law, as we are bound to do, we can make none. We are therefore of opinion that the words in this case are not actionable. *2 The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1811. Elliott v. Ailsberry 2 Bibb 473, 5 Ky. 473, 1811 WL 861 (Ky.), 5 Am.Dec. 631 END OF DOCUMENT
