(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 290,  19 Ky. 290 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1298 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Bedal v. Stith. Oct. 9, 1826. *1 Assignor and Assignee. Covenants. Bonds for Land. Rescission of Contracts. Consideration. ERROR TO THE BRECKENRIDGE CIRCUIT; ALNEY M'LEAN, JUDGE. West Headnotes Vendor and Purchaser 400 k 214(5) 400 Vendor and Purchaser 400V Rights and Liabilities of Parties 400V(B) As to Third Persons in General 400k214 Assignees of Contract or Bond for  Title 400k214(5) k. Liabilities of Vendor or Assignor. Most  Cited Cases In the case of an assignment of a bond for land, unless fraud in the representations of the assignor in regard to the title, or fraud or mistake in the writing, are shown, or the assignor fails in his contract, the responsibility of the assignor is limited to the amount of the original consideration of the bond, and then only when the assignee has been unable, by the use of proper means with due diligence, to coerce the title or consideration from the obligor. Assignments 38 k 96 38 Assignments 38V Rights and Liabilities 38k95 Rights of Assignee as Against Assignor 38k96 k. Right of Recourse. Most Cited  Cases An assignor of a contract, there being no fraud nor express guaranty of performance, is responsible only in case of due diligence by suit against the obligor on his inability to perform, and insolvency. Bonds 58 k 87 58 Bonds 58III Negotiability and Transfer 58k87 k. Rights and Liabilities on Assignment or Sale. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 58k90) The assignor of a bond is not responsible to the assignee, where there has been unreasonable delay or want of diligence in proceeding against a solvent obligor. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. This was a bill filed by Benjamin Stith, on the 25th of April, 1823, in which he alleges in substance, that on the 12th of April, 1815, Daniel Bedal purchased of Thomas Stith a tract of land of 450 acres, at the price of $700, and took his bond for the conveyance of the same, and having entered upon the possession thereof, afterwards, upon the 25th of September, 1818, sold the said tract to the complainant for the sum of $2,200, and assigned to him the bond on Thomas Stith for the conveyance. That at the time of the contract, Bedal falsely represented the land to be clear of dispute, and under that impression, the complainant had made the purchase and paid his money to Bedal and was put into the possession by him; but that Philip Johnson's heirs had instituted suit and recovered a judgment in ejectment under an adverse elder grant against him. Bill by assignee of an obligation for the conveyance of land, against assignor and heirs of obligor, for specific performance, or a rescission, of the contract, alleging a recovery by a superior adversary claim. He makes Bedal and the heirs of Thomas Stith (he having departed this life) defendants, and offers if either of them will quiet the adverse claim, to accept of a title, otherwise, he prays that the contract between him and Bedal, may be rescinded upon equitable terms, and asks for whatever relief he may be entitled to in equity against either of the parties. *2 Prayer of the bill. Thomas Stith's heirs, in their answer, admit the sale of the land, and the execution of the bond for the conveyance by their ancestor upon the terms stated in the bill, and that the complainant has been evicted therefrom, except a very small part, and they submit the question of their responsibility to the court. Answer of obligor's heirs. Bedal in his answer, admits his purchase from Thomas Stith, and the assignment of the bond for the conveyance and the delivery of the possession of the land to the complainant upon the terms stated; but denies that he made any representation to him respecting the title, or that he knew at that time of the existence of Johnson's title, and he insists that he is not responsible, being released, as he is advised, from any liability on his assignment by the negligence of the complainant in prosecuting a suit against Thomas Stith or his heirs in due time. Assignor answers denying his responsibility, and relying on the laches of assignee. The circuit court decreed the heirs of Thomas Stith to pay to the complainant $952, and Bedal to pay to him the sum of 1,765 dollars. To reverse the decree against Bedal, he has prosecuted this writ of error. Decree of the circuit court against assignor. We can perceive no ground upon which the decree against Bedal can be sustained. It certainly can not be sustained upon the score of fraud; for although the bill charges him with having falsely represented the land to be clear of dispute, yet he positively denies having made any such representation, and there is not a particle of evidence in the record conducing in the slightest degree to support the charge. It is equally clear that the decree can not be sustained upon the ground of an express contract on the part of Bedal to be responsible for the title; for there is no express contract either written or verbal, binding him to guaranty the title of the land either alleged in the bill or proved in the cause. Nor can the decree be sustained upon the ground of Bedal's implied responsibility, resulting from his assignment, to the complainant, of the bond for the conveyance of the land; for the law only implies from the assignment an undertaking on the part of Bedal to respond for the sufficiency of Thomas Stith and his representatives, and it is not even alleged that they are not solvent. Besides his responsibility would only have attached upon the condition that the complainant had used due diligence by suit to recover of Stith, or his representatives, and this he has not done; for the bond on Stith required the conveyance to have been made in July, 1815, and no suit seems ever to have been brought to coerce a conveyance, or to obtain an indemnity for failing to convey until this bill was filed. Assignor of a bond for land, there being no fraud nor express guarantee for the title, is responsible only in case of due diligence by suit against obligor, of his inability to convey, and insolvency. *3 The only other ground which we apprehend can be assumed in support of the decree against Bedal, is, that of a failure of the consideration on which the complainant has paid his money. We are perfectly aware that where money has been paid upon a consideration which has failed, the money may be recovered back. Assignment of the bond, in such case is the consideration, which being executed, never can afterwards fail. But the doctrine does not apply to this case, for here there has been no failure of consideration. The consideration upon which the complainant paid his money was the assignment to him of the bond for the conveyance of the land and the delivery of the possession of the land by Bedal. This was a lawful and sufficient consideration and this Bedal has performed, and being all he undertook to perform, there could, of course, be no failure of consideration, for it would be preposterous to suppose that there could be a failure of consideration where the consideration has been performed. The decree against Bedal is therefore erroneous and must be reversed, with costs, and the cause be remanded, that the bill as to him, may be dismissed with cost. Hardin, for plaintiff; Crittenden, for defendant. Ky.App. 1826. Bedal v. Stith 3 T.B.Mon. 290, 19 Ky. 290, 1826 WL 1298 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
