(Cite as: 4 Bibb 294,  7 Ky. 294 (Ky.),  1816 WL 727 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Johnson, etc. v. Thompson. Apr. 2, 1816. *1 On a motion by a principal sheriff against his deputy and his securities for a failure to account for a part of the revenue, the Court decides both law and fact, and an objection to evidence as incompetent to authorize judgment, cannot vitiate the judgment, if there is sufficient evidence to support it. A judgment of the general Court against the principal, not admissible evidence against the deputy, because he was no party to the suit, and he is liable to the principal without a judgment. The auditor's certificate of the amount of taxes is admissible. On motion against the deputy and securities, by the principal, judgment thereon in the Court below reversed, because there was no evidence that the persons sued were securities. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 703 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k703 k. Public Officers and Deputies and Successors. Most  Cited Cases A judgment against a sheriff is not admissible evidence in favor of the sheriff, on a motion against his deputy for a failure to account for a part of the revenue. Judgment 228 k 703 228 Judgment 228XIV Conclusiveness of Adjudication 228XIV(B) Persons Concluded 228k703 k. Public Officers and Deputies and Successors. Most  Cited Cases On a motion by a principal sheriff against his deputy and his securities for a failure to account for taxes, a judgment against the principal sheriff is not admissible, as the deputy was no party to the suit, nor was his liability to his principal dependent on such judgment. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 159 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k159 k. Summary Remedies. Most Cited Cases On a motion by a principal sheriff against his deputy and his sureties for failure to pay over a revenue tax, judgment was improperly rendered against the sureties;  there being no evidence in the record showing that the persons sued were sureties. Sheriffs and Constables 353 k 159 353 Sheriffs and Constables 353IV Liabilities on Official Bonds 353k159 k. Summary Remedies. Most Cited Cases On a motion by a principal sheriff against his deputy and his sureties for failure to account for a part of the revenue tax of a certain year, the court decides both law and fact. Taxation 371 k 2826 371 Taxation 371III Property Taxes 371III(K) Collection and Enforcement Against Persons or Personal Property 371III(K)1 In General 371k2826 k. Summary Remedies Against Defaulting Officers.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 371k566) On a motion by a principal sheriff, against his deputy, for a failure to account for a part of the revenue, the auditor's certificate of the amount of taxes is admissible evidence. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *2 THIS is an appeal from a judgment of the Christian Circuit Court, obtained on a motion by the principal sheriff against his deputy and others as his securities, for the failure to account for a part of the revenue tax of 1809. The whole evidence produced on the part of the appellee is contained in a bill of exceptions taken by the appellants, and is objected to by them as being, 1. Incompetent, and 2. Insufficient. With respect to the first objection, a very minute investigation does not appear important; for in a case like the present, where the Court decides both the fact and the law, and the whole evidence is spread upon the record, the admission of incompetent evidence cannot vitiate the judgment, provided there is sufficient competent evidence to support it; and if there be not a sufficiency of such evidence, the judgment must on that ground be reversed although no incompetent evidence may have been admitted. It may however be remarked, 1. That the judgment obtained by the Commonwealth against the principal sheriff in the general Court, was not admissible evidence against the deputy; because the latter not being a party thereto is not bound by it, and because the statute which gives the remedy by motion to the sheriff against his deputy, makes the deputy equally liable, and to the same extent, whether the Commonwealth has obtained a judgment against the principal or not. 2. That the auditor's certificate of the amount of taxes was admissible evidence; for the revenue law expressly makes it evidence against the sheriff, and the same law provides him a remedy against his deputy, "under the same rules and regulations." That the second objection is well founded, there can be no doubt. The evidence is perhaps sufficient as it relates to the deputy himself, but it is wholly defective in relation to the other appellants, there being not a particle of testimony to show that they were his securities; and in the absence of all proof of that sort, it is perfectly clear that no judgment ought to be given against them. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that new proceedings may be had not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1816. Johnson v. Thompson 4 Bibb 294, 7 Ky. 294, 1816 WL 727 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
