(Cite as: 4 Bibb 572,  7 Ky. 572 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1114 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Brooks and Brown v. Shepherd. Jun. 9, 1817. *1 The execution of a second replevin bond releases the security in the first bond and assumpsit will not lie in favor of the security in the last bond (who had the money to pay) against the security in the first bond to recover the money paid. West Headnotes Principal and Surety 309 k 192 309 Principal and Surety 309V Rights and Remedies of Surety 309V(C) As to Co-Surety 309k192 k. Obligations Constituting Parties Cosureties. Most  Cited Cases A surety on the last replevin bond is not entitled to contribution from a surety on the first. Replevin 335 k 123 335 Replevin 335XIV Liabilities on Bonds or Undertakings 335k123 k. Discharge of Sureties. Most Cited Cases The execution of a second replevin bond releases the surety in the first;  and assumpsit will not lie in favor of the surety in the second bond, who was compelled to pay the money against the surety in the first bond, to recover the money paid. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action of assumpsit, brought by Shepherd against Brown and Brooks, for money laid out and expended by him to their use. Judgment was taken by default against Brown, and a writ of inquiry awarded as to him. Brooks pleaded non assumpsit, upon which issue was joined. On the trial the plaintiff produced in evidence a record of the proceedings in a suit brought by Prather and others against Brown, from which it appeared that Prather and others had obtained a judgment against Brown on a note executed by him; on which judgment an execution issued, and was returned with a three months replevin bond, executed by Brown, and Brooks as his security: that an execution having issued upon the replevin bond, the sheriff returned that he had taken the property of Brooks, which was not sold for want of bidders: that a venditioni exponas was issued thereon, and the sheriff returned that Brown had replevied for twelve months, with Shepherd his security; and that Shepherd, in virtue of the execution issued on the twelve months replevin bond against him and Brown, was compelled to pay the money. This being all the evidence produced on the part of Shepherd, Brooks demurred; and on the demurrer the Court gave judgment for Shepherd: and a writ of inquiry being executed, a final judgment was given for the damages assessed by the jury against Brooks and Brown; to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted. We have no doubt that the Court below erred in giving judgment against Brooks. The debt was not his, nor does it appear that he was under any moral obligation to discharge it; and the legal obligation which he had incurred by becoming security to Brown in the first replevin bond, was released by the execution of the second replevin bond, in which he was not bound. So that being under no obligation, either legal or moral, to pay the debt when the money was advanced by Shepherd, it cannot in any sense of the word be said to have been laid out and expended to his use. *2 The judgment must therefore be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that judgment may be entered upon the demurrer to evidence for Brooks, and a separate judgment entered against Brown for the damages assessed by the jury. Ky.App. 1817. Brooks v. Shepherd 4 Bibb 572, 7 Ky. 572, 1817 WL 1114 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
