(Cite as: 2 Bibb 519,  5 Ky. 519 (Ky.),  1812 WL 605 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Starling et al. v. Hardin. Spring Term, 1812. *1 After appearance entered without objection, the irregularity of the process to compel an appearance cannot be assigned for error. A surveyor's report is but matter of evidence, and the want of it is not error. An elder grant accompanied by possession is a sufficient equity on behalf of a complainant unless the defendant shows a prior equity. If a defendant shows no equitable title to lands lying within the elder grant set up by complainant, a decree that defendant release all claim to the lands within complainant's grant is sufficient, without giving the metes and bounds of the defendant's claim to be released. Upon a bill to quiet the title, a release of all claim at the time of rendering the decree is correct--if defendant had acquired a title between filing his answer and the time of the decree, he should apply for leave to amend his answer and bring the title thus acquired before the Court. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(7) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(7) k. Conflicting Entries, Claims, or Patents. Most  Cited Cases A patent procured without fraud and possession of the land is a sufficient title to support a bill by the patentee against parties claiming part of the land under a subsequent equitable title, to compel them to release by deed the interference. Quieting Title 318 k 42 318 Quieting Title 318II Proceedings and Relief 318k33 Pleading 318k42 k. Amended and Supplemental Pleadings. Most Cited  Cases On a bill to quiet title, a release of all claim at the time of rendering the decree is correct, although defendant acquired title between filing his answer and the time of the appeal, since he should have applied for leave to amend his answer, and bring the title thus acquired before the court. Appearance 31 k 24(7) 31 Appearance 31k21 Waiver of Objections 31k24 Defects in Process or Service 31k24(7) k. Service by Publication. Most Cited  Cases Appearance and answer waive proof of summons by publication. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge WALLACE absent. HARDIN filed his bill against Starling and Davis, alleging that he was possessed of two certain tracts of land, for which he held the legal title, and that they set up claim to a part thereof, and prayed that they might be compelled to release to him. Davis appeared, and being a citizen of the State of Virginia, the cause was on his petition removed to the United States District Court, but that Court disclaiming jurisdiction, the cause was remanded, and Davis failing to answer, the bill was taken for confessed as to him. Starling answered, exhibiting an entry, survey and patent, in the name of Davis, which he admitted interfered with Hardin's claim, and to an undivided moiety of which he set up title by purchase from Davis, and called upon Hardin to answer. Hardin replied, affirming that the matters and things contained in the bill were true, and denying that the matters and things contained in Starling's answer were true. *2 On a final hearing, the Court below decreed that Starling and Davis should severally release to Hardin, all their right, title, interest and claim, in, and to the two tracts of land in the bill mentioned; to which decree Starling and Davis have prosecuted this writ of error. 1. It is objected that the bill was improperly taken for confessed against Davis, there being no proof of the publication, etc. To this objection it is a sufficient answer that Davis had appeared. To warn him of the pendency of the suit was the object of the publication, and his appearance entered of record conclusively shows that object to have been attained. After he had appeared, to require proof of the publication warning him to appear, would be preposterous and absurd. 2. It is objected that the cause was improperly brought to a hearing, first because the bill was not regularly taken for confessed as to Davis; secondly, because there was no survey made or returned in the cause; thirdly, because Hardin had not responded to Starling's answer; and fourthly, because the suit was neither in form nor substance set for hearing. Neither of these reasons seems sufficient to sustain the objection. So far as the irregularity complained of with respect to taking the bill for confessed, is supposed to consist in want of proof of publication, it has already been sufficiently shown to be without foundation, and in no other respect is there any irregularity pointed out by the assignment of error. It was indeed stated in argument that there ought to have been a rule given for Davis to answer before the bill could be taken for confessed. The law however does not require such a rule to be given, and the only benefit resulting from giving it would be to gain time. But in this case there was no reason to complain for want of time. Almost four years from the time when Davis appeared and presented his petition for the removal of the cause to the Federal Court, and nearly two years from the time when the cause was remanded, had elapsed before the bill was taken for confessed. A failure to answer for such a lapse of time after an appearance, evinces such gross neglect as is equivalent to an absolute refusal. With regard to the survey it is but matter of evidence, and the want of it could in no possible manner affect the regularity of bringing the cause to a hearing. As to Hardin's not having responded to Starling's answers, the record does not in strict propriety justify the assertion. He did respond, his response was indeed a general one and not upon oath, and if in either of these respects an exception had been taken to it in proper time, the objection would have been sufficient. But Starling having gone on to the final hearing of the cause without having taken any exception to the response made by Hardin to his answer he has thereby waived his right to do so. With respect to the cause not having been set for hearing, it is sufficient to remark that prior to the time when the suit was heard the rule docket had been abolished, and the cause having been at issue when it was transferred under the act of assembly to the Court docket, did at the second term thereafter, when it was decided, stand for hearing by operation of law without any rule or order for that purpose. *3 3dly. It is objected that the decree is erroneous upon the merits. Various positions are assumed in support of this objection. Such of them as are deemed material will be noticed, without however attending to the order in which they are placed in the assignment of error. It is urged that the decree is erroneous, because the complainant has not shown himself in equity entitled to the land by a valid entry and a corresponding survey. This position assumes it as a principle that one cannot in equity be entitled to land without a valid entry and corresponding survey; but this principle cannot be considered to be correct. A patent, when not fraudulently obtained, and in the present case there is no suggestion of fraud, not only conveys a legal but an equitable right to the patentee, and in a contest with those who have no title either at law or in equity, originating anterior to the patent, no other evidence of title need be produced by him. It is further urged that the decree is erroneous, there being no surveyor's report to identify the land claimed by the complainant. But the identity of the land was not in dispute. It was admitted by the defendants that the complainant had the legal title to, and was in possession of the two tracts of land claimed by him, and that their claim interfered therewith. These are all the material facts alleged in the bill, and all that were necessary for the complainant to prove to sustain his claim. Had these facts been denied, to demonstrate their existence a survey might have been necessary, but as they were admitted proof of their existance by a survey or otherwise would have been superfluous. It is also urged that a survey was necessary, because as the parties claimed under adverse titles, and as there was an interference only in part, the shape, locality and quantity of the interference could not be shown without a survey. We cannot however perceive the necessity of ascertaining these objects. A release from the defendants of all their claim to the land contained in the boundaries of the complainant's two tracts, would be good and binding upon them only for so much of their claim as was thus contained in those tracts. The defendants having utterly failed to establish their claim in any part, the complainant was entitled to a decree for the whole interference, and its particular figure, quantity, or locality was wholly immaterial. Again, it is contended the decree is erroneous in requiring the defendants to release the whole of their interest in the two tracts claimed by the complainant, containing three thousand acres, when it is not suggested in the bill that they claim more than about fifteen hundred acres. It is impossible to imagine how the decree can in this respect be prejudicial to the defendants. The complainant alleges his right to the two tracts, and although he does not suggest that the defendants claim more than about 1500 acres, yet he does not pretend to state precisely what quantity, and calls upon them to answer whether they do not claim the two tracts, "or some part thereof, what part, and by virtue of what title?" If they therefore had title to any part, whether more or less than 1500 acres, they ought to have set it forth, and if they had no title the decree cannot operate injuriously to them. Finally it is contended that the decree is erroneous, because it is general for the whole of the interest claimed by either of the defendants at the time of pronouncing the decree, when the only claim in controversy was that set up before the commencement of the suit to which the decree ought to have been confined, without embracing any other after acquired claim. *4 It is believed that in this respect the decree does not differ from the usual style of entering decrees of the same kind. If the defendants had acquired any additional claim before the decree was pronounced, they might upon a proper application have been permitted to have exhibited it and used it in their defense; and none such being exhibited, we must take it for granted that none such exists. The decree must therefore be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1812. Starling v. Hardin 2 Bibb 519, 5 Ky. 519, 1812 WL 605 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
