(Cite as: 3 Bibb 268,  6 Ky. 268 (Ky.),  1814 WL 752 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Noel v. Dickey. Apr. 8, 1814. West Headnotes Witnesses 410 k 358 410 Witnesses 410IV Credibility and Impeachment 410IV(B) Character and Conduct of Witness 410k356 Examination of Impeaching Witnesses as to Character  or Reputation 410k358 k. Cross-Examination and Re-Examination. Most  Cited Cases Where witnesses are introduced to discredit others, and testify that their general character is bad, the adverse party will be permitted to ask as to their character in point of veracity. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS is a writ of error to a judgment for the defendant in an action of trespass. On the trial the plaintiff having examined two witnesses, whose testimony if true, tended to establish the charge alleged in the declaration, the defendant, in order to discredit them, introduced a witness who swore that their general character was bad. The plaintiff then asked their character in point of veracity, but the Court being of opinion that the general character was the only admissible inquiry, forbid the witness to answer the question. Witnesses introduced to discredit others in proving that their general character is bad, the adverse party will be permitted to ask as to their character in point of veracity. Whether the Court erred in their decision upon this point, is the only question presented by the assignment of error which seems material or necessary to be determined. We can see nothing in the inquiry proposed by the plaintiff and interdicted by the Court which was impertinent or improper; on the contrary, it appears to be better calculated than any more general inquiry can be, to elicit the truth and enable the jury correctly to estimate the credit due to the witnesses whose characters were assailed. It is an observation not less true than trite, that no one is entirely virtuous or entirely vicious. Such indeed is in general the preponderance of the virtue or vice of individuals, as to entitle them to the general character of good or of bad, but we cannot merely from knowing what the general character is, say with certainty what vice or virtue enters into its composition. If, therefore, we would form a correct judgment of a man with regard to any particular vice or virtue, it is necessary we should be informed of his character in that particular respect. This is more especially necessary as it regards a man of bad character: for frequently a single vicious habit, and sometimes even a solitary vicious action is sufficient in the common estimation of mankind to give to a person a general bad character. A person, therefore, whose general character is bad, may notwithstanding possess such a degree of veracity as to entitle him to credit upon oath; and whether he does so or not, can only be ascertained by an inquiry into his character for truth. The Court below therefore erred in prohibiting an inquiry into that point. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings to be had not inconsistent with this opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Noel v. Dickey 3 Bibb 268, 6 Ky. 268, 1814 WL 752 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
