(Cite as: 2 Bibb 141,  5 Ky. 141 (Ky.),  1810 WL 673 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hite v. Graham et al. Spring Term, 1810. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A. locates 2,000 acres on Harrod's Salt Lick creek, running into the Ohio about 16 miles above the Scioto, and about 20 miles up the said creek, from the mouth, to begin at a white oak tree on the west side of the creek, about half a mile above a salt lock on the same side of the creek, and to run from thence east and west until it strikes the knobs each side of the creek, thence down the creek winding with the knobs, for quantity, so as to include the said lick and two trees, one marked "H.," and the other "J. S.," and a small improvement of deadened trees.  Held, that the entry was void for want of specialty and precision, as there were two Sciotos. Supposing the Big Scioto the one called for, which is most favorable for the entry, the stream on which the location is made is described as "running into the Ohio about 16 miles above the Scioto," estimating the distance by the windings of the stream.  "Harrod's Salt Lick creek," as called for in the entry, is 20 miles distant, and moreover was always known as the "little Sandy," not a creek, but navigable for 100 miles;  the location is about 40 instead of "20 miles up said creek from the mouth";  the marks and girdling of trees were obliterated before entry;  and the lick claimed is in the channel of the stream, while the lick called for is on the west side. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS is a contest for land claimed by the parties under?? conflicting titles. The appellees, who were defendants in the Court below, are in possession, and hold the elder grants, but have the junior entries; so that the controversy depends upon the appellant's claim. He asserts his right to the land in dispute under the following entry, made September the 9th, 1780, viz: "Leven Powel withdraws his entry of 1000 acres that joins Hite on Fern creek, also his entry of 1000 acres two or three miles from the mouth of Mill creek, and locates 2000 acres on Harrod's salt lick creek, running into the Ohio about sixteen miles above the Scioto, and about twenty miles up the said creek from the mouth, to begin at a white-oak tree on the west side of the creek, about half a mile above a salt lick on the same side of the creek, and to run from thence east and west until it strikes the knobs each side of the creek, thence down the creek, winding with the knobs, for quantity, so as to include the said lick and two trees, one marked H and the other I S, and a small improvement of deadened trees." It is a sound and well-settled principle that notoriety, as well as identity in the objects called for in an entry, is necessary to its validity. If the particular objects which give location to an entry be not in themselves notorious, they must be described with reasonable certainty by reference to those that are notorious; for it is a self-evident truth, that a knowledge of that which is unknown can be communicated only through the medium of that which is known. Identity and notoriety necessary to a good location. It has not been asserted, nor can it be pretended, that the locative calls of the entry in question (if identified) were, at the time of making the location, sufficiently notorious to enable a subsequent locator, without the aid of the general calls of description, to find and avoid the land intended to be appropriated by it. The general description, therefore, given in this entry, is essential to its validity; and whether it leads with reasonable certainty to the particular objects of location, becomes material to be ascertained. A subsequent locator, in search of the land intended to be appropriated by this entry, is required by the description given of it to commence his inquiry at the mouth of Scioto. At the very threshold of his search he is met with a difficulty. There are two streams of the name of Scioto, which empty into the Ohio at some distance from each other. Both of these streams are proven to have been equally well known by their respective names of Big Scioto and Little Scioto. The call in the entry for "the Scioto," leaves it in some measure uncertain which was intended, and there is no proof in the cause that tends to remove or explain this ambiguity. It is only from the names of these streams that we can infer that their relative magnitude is such as to give to Big Scioto a pre-eminence which would justify a presumption that the call was applicable to it, and not to Little Scioto. This, however, would be presuming considerably in favor of the entry, and although with this presumption in its favor, the uncertainty in this part of the description would not be fatally defective, yet it must be acknowledged that it tends to weaken the strength of the claim. *2 "About sixteen miles above the Scioto," ought perhaps to be applied to Big Scioto rather than to Little Scioto. But no soonel would the subsequent adventurer have surmounted this difficulty, than he would be compelled to encounter others more formidable. The stream on which the location is made, is described as "running into the Ohio about 16 miles above the Scioto." The silence of the entry as to the mode of estimating the distance, leaves it to be determined by construction. In a case of this kind, where the distance is given between two points on the Ohio, we cannot doubt that it ought to be estimated according to the meanders of the stream. The language of an entry ought to be understood according to the popular acceptation at the time when the entry was made. Wherever there was an usual way of traveling from one object to another, the distance when spoken of was always in common parlance understood according to the accustomed way of traveling. Such it is believed is the popular mode of estimating distances at this day, and we know of no change which in this respect has taken place in the language of the country. As the Ohio is the usual way of passing from one point on it to another, and was at an early day the great highway of coming to that part of this country the distance in this call ought, according to the rule just laid down, to be computed according to the meanders of the stream, and not in a direct line. When the adventurer whom we suppose to be in search of this location had followed the Ohio for 16 miles, the distance called for in the entry, he would not be within less than four miles of the stream which is claimed as the one upon which the location was made. Before he would reach the end of these four miles, it would not be absurd or irrational for him to conclude that the locator had been mistaken in supposing the existence of the stream called for, and under this idea cease to prosecute his search. But if he should persevere to the end of the remaining four miles, he would find not Harrod's Salt Lick creek, as is called for in the entry, but a stream that never bore that name; a stream which has always been known, from long anterior to the time of making the entry until the present period, by the name of Little Sandy; a stream proven to be navigable for near a hundred miles by its winding from its mouth, and of a size considerably above that which in the common meaning of the language of the country ought to receive the denomination of a creek. The distance to be taken on the Ohio, by the meanders, and not on a direct line. Call for distances to be understood according to the usual mode of traveling from one object to another. To omit to call for a stream by its appropriate name, and substitute therefor an inaccurate description by reference to a distance of 20 miles on the Ohio, is a fatal objection to an entry--Accord.  Couchman v. Thomas, Hard.?? 261-- Respass v. Arnold, 113--Helm's heirs v. Craig, 112. *3 It never has been exacted of a locator that he should use the best possible description of an object, but it has always been required that the description given should be substantially true, and not fallacious or delusive. Here Little Sandy (if indeed Little Sandy were meant to be indicated by this description) is called by a false name; is described as a creek when in fact it is a navigable river, and is pointed out by a distance which does not conduct the inquirer within less than four miles of it. From such premises, were the subsequent locator to reason correctly, he would never arrive at the conclusion that Little Sandy was the stream intended to be described by this location. It may be here remarked, that Little Sandy was, at the time of making this entry, as well known as Big Scioto, and would have been as easily found by a call for it by its proper name. To describe it by reference to the Scioto, could not make it more known, though it might render it more obscure. Not only so, but to substitute instead of a well known name that would have conducted the inquirer directly to the object, a circuitous description which would require him to explore the banks of the Ohio for twenty miles in extent would impose upon him so much unnecessary labor, that were the description correct, it would present the entry in a very questionable aspect. But when we add to this consideration the fallacy and delusiveness of the description, the location seems to present difficulties too great to be surmounted by reasonable exertions. A locator is not required to use the best possible description, but it should not be delusive--Vol. i, 631, rule 3. In the next general call, the inquirer in search of this location, instead of finding the former difficulties removed, would discover new embarrassments to perplex him. The location is made about twenty miles up the said creek from the mouth. Quere, whether the distance up Little Sandy should be understood by the meanders, or the nearest practicable ronte. This call, like that for a distance on the Ohio, is not explicit as to the mode of computing it. But the stream, though like the Ohio navigable, is not like it impassable, except occasionally; and a person in passing from one point on it to another, is not necessarily confined to the windings of the stream. A direct line, however, would be impracticable to travel, and use put it out of the question as being a way in which a call of this kind would never be understood by any one. But whether the distance ought in this case to be computed according to the meanders of the stream, or the most practicable rout by land, is doubtful, because it does not clearly appear what was the usual way of traveling up and down it. But neither of these modes of estimating the distance would relieve the inquirer in search of this location from difficulty and embarrassment. If he should pursue the stream by its windings, at the end of twenty miles he would not be more than half the distance to the lick claimed as the one called for in the location, which is about forty miles from the mouth by the meanders. *4 The distance, if to be estimated according to the most practicable route, will be found, taking the present road as the evidence of such a route, from twenty four to twenty-seven miles. If, at the end of twenty miles, the adventurer should commence his search for the lick, he would have as much reason to direct his examination down the stream as up it, and he might thus be compelled to explore the stream at least from eight to fourteen miles, before he could find the lick. Whether, therefore, the distance is to be estimated by the meanders or the most practicable route, this part of the description would not lead the subsequent adventurer so near the location as to enable him to find it, without exertions unreasonably great, unless indeed the locative objects called for possessed some very distinguishing characteristic marks, which would attract the attention. We will therefore pass on to the examination of the locative calls. After ascertaining distance up Little Sandy of twenty miles, then to search from eight to fourteen miles for an obscure lick, is unreasonable diligence. Upon this part of the subject there is some apparent contrariety of evidence, and much argument was used by the counsel on each side to discredit the adverse witnesses. The characters of the witnesses however are not impeached in a manner to destroy their credit, and the material facts proven on both sides seem, when properly understood, to be reconcilable to each other. The locative calls necessary to be considered are, "a salt lick on the same side (the west side) of the creek," "two trees, the one marked H. the other I. S., " and a small improvement of deadened trees." It appears that in 1773 the letters I. H. and I. S. were marked upon two trees with gunpowder, and other trees cut round or girdled, with a view of deadening them at the lick claimed as the one called for. The letters are not proven ever afterward to have been seen, and from the nature of things they must have been obliterated long before 1780, when the entry in question was made. With respect to the girdled trees, it seems that they were so ineffectually cut that none of them died, and that the wounds had healed up and become so obscure as not to be discovered by the only white person who, after the improvement was made in 1773, appears to have been at this place as early as 1780; nor by others who seem the most recently afterward to have visited the lick, some of whom went for the purpose of searching for the objects called for in the entry, which they had with them for their guide. The clear conviction of the mind, from the testimony on this point, is that it would have required more than ordinary diligence to have found the girdled trees, and recognized them as fitting the call for an improvement of deadened trees. Marks made upon trees in 1773, obliterated and overgrown, before entry called for them in 1780, cannot uphold the entry. *5 With respect to notice to the subsequent locator, it is the same whether the objects do not exist or cannot be found upon reasonable search. The nonentity or the invisibility of the objects, must therefore equally affect the validity of the entry; for "de non apparentibus et non existentibus eadem est ratio." So far, therefore, are the calls for the marked and deadened trees from adding strength to this claim, that by the obliteration and obscurity of the objects, they tend to weaken the entry, in as much as they are calculated to beguile and mislead, instead of informing the subsequent locator. The only remaining call upon which the entry in question depends for support, is for "a salt lick on the same (that is, the west) side of the creek." The lick claimed as the one called for, is on the quick sand, in the channel of the stream, some distance from the west bank, but nigher it than the other; and it appears that a small rise in the stream overflows it and renders it invisible. Call for "a lick on the west side of the creek," is not responded by a lick in the creek. It is abundantly proven that salt water exists in many places on Sandy, from near the mouth to the lick now claimed, which like it makes its appearance on the quick sand in the channel of the river, sometimes approaching the east and sometimes the west bank. Some of these places near the west side, correspond better with the distance described in the entry from the mouth of the stream, than the one claimed under the location. Under such circumstances, the call under consideration is deemed too vague and indefinite to give validity to the entry. Independent of the marked and deadened trees, which, from their nonentity or obscurity at the time of making the entry, can impart no strength to the claim, the call for the lick gives no characteristic marks by which it may be distinguished. A lick of any size, whether great or little, will equally answer the call. Indeed if there were any distinguishing attributes peculiar to the lick contended for, they would furnish a presumption that it was not the lick intended to be indicated by the location, otherwise it would have been described by those attributes. Considering it as having no properties which would, better than those of other licks on the west side of the stream, correspond with the call in the entry, and it necessarily results that the call is essentially vague and uncertain. Added to these considerations are the circumstances that the lick claimed is in the channel of the stream, and with a small rise is overflown; whereas the call is for a lick on the west side of the creek, and would be sought for by subsequent locators on the bank, and not in the channel of the stream. An object appealed to as locative, must be so described, or characterized, as to distinguish it from others in the vicinity, and known as one intended -- Vide Buckner v. Feagins, 5 Ky. 138. *6 The other calls in the entry, as they are dependent upon those already considered, or regard the manner of surveying only, need not be considered. Whether, therefore, we advert to the general description or the locative calls of the entry in question, we find that it wants that specialty and precision which the law and the long established principles of adjudication upon land claims require. Decree affirmed, with costs. Ky.App. 1810. Hite v. Graham 2 Bibb 141, 5 Ky. 141, 1810 WL 673 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
