(Cite as: 4 Bibb 498,  7 Ky. 498 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1068 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Clevinger, etc. v. Hill. Apr. 12, 1817. *1 A deed purporting to be executed by the heirs of the patentee is not prima facie evidence that they are the heirs--the question is matter of fact and law, the death of the patentee and their relation to him should be proven. An order of publication against absent defendants in chancery does not operate as notice until it is executed. West Headnotes Lis Pendens 242 k 8 242 Lis Pendens 242k6 Commencement and Pendency of Action 242k8 k. Time of Commencement of Lis Pendens. Most Cited Cases A bill in equity against nonresident defendants is not lis pendens against a purchaser until execution of the order to advertise. Ejectment 142 k 95(2) 142 Ejectment 142III Pleading and Evidence 142k92 Weight and Sufficiency of Evidence 142k95 Title and Right to Possession 142k95(2) k. Grant, Conveyance, or Deed. Most Cited  Cases In a contest for land, a deed, purporting to be executed by the heirs of the patentee to the plaintiff, is not prima facie evidence that they are the heirs; but the death of the patentee and their relation to him should be proved. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is an appeal from a judgment for the plaintiff in an action of ejectment. The questions arising in the case grow out of bills of exception taken by the defendants in the progress of the trial in the Court below. We have no doubt that the Court below decided erroneously that the deed to the lessor of the plaintiff, purporting to be executed by the heirs of the patentee, under which the plaintiff derived title, was prima facie evidence of the fact that they were the heirs of the patentee. The question whether they were the heirs of the patentee, involved matter both of fact and of law. The death of the patentee and their relation to him should be proved, before the law could adjudge them to be his heirs; and of neither of these facts could the deed be any evidence. In truth, it does not purport to recite either of them; nor if it had, could it have been any evidence against third persons. The deed being properly recorded, is no doubt evidence against any one that they have made the conveyance; but it is not evidence that they had any right to convey. We are of opinion the Court below decided correctly, that the suit in chancery brought by the defendants against absentees, could not be deemed lis pendens, so as to be presumed notice to a purchaser, until the execution of the order to advertise. The rule is clearly settled, that the filing of a bill is not notice of the pendency of the suit before the subpena is served; and as the order to advertise is substituted, where the defendants are absent from the State, in the place of the subpena, there is the same reason for requiring it to be executed before it can operate as a notice. *2 We are also of opinion that the Court below decided correctly in refusing to reject parol evidence that the ancestor of the defendants said he had elected to take in satisfaction of his bond a different tract from that in controversy, for which he had received a deed, and that he had no claim to the land in dispute, of which the witnesses informed the lessor of the plaintiff before he made his purchase. Such evidence was not perhaps admissible to prove the existence of the deed spoken of, without having given previous notice to the defendants to produce it; but it was not necessary to prove the existence of the deed. It was sufficient for the lessor of the plaintiff to prove that he was a purchaser without notice of the defendants or their ancestor's claim; and the evidence was no doubt competent for this purpose. Judgment reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings. Ky.App. 1817. Clevinger v. Hill 4 Bibb 498, 7 Ky. 498, 1817 WL 1068 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
