(Cite as: 4 Bibb 14,  7 Ky. 14 (Ky.),  1815 WL 633 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Floyd v. Breckenridge. Apr. 12, 1815. *1 An adm'r de bonis non is entitled to all the personal estate of the testator which remains in specie, the property in which has not been changed by former ex'r or administrator. Slaves (previous to the act of 1800) were assets in the hands of ex'r and would pass to the adm'r de bonis non. Where a chattel is devised to one who is also made ex'r, he holds it as ex'r until he signifies by some act his election to hold it as devisee. If the Court overrule an objection to testimony to a point not relevant, it is nevertheless cause of reversal, --Rice's heirs v. Lowan, vol. 2, 150--Given v. Bradley, vol. 3, 195-196. If ex'r or adm'r declares in detinue, on his own possession, upon general issue he must prove that he is ex'r or adm'r unless he shows that he has had actual possession. But when he declares on possession of the intestate, he need not prove himself ex'r or adm'r; upon the general issue, the fact of ex'r or not must be controverted by special plea. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 88 162 Executors and Administrators 162IV Collection and Management of Estate 162IV(A) In General 162k83 Discovery and Collection of Assets 162k88 k. Debts Due from Executor or Administrator. Most  Cited Cases Where slaves were devised to an executrix, but she died before making any express or implied acceptance of the devise, and an administrator de bonis non was appointed, who took possession of the slaves, the will remaining in specie, it was held that the slaves were assets in the hands of the administrator. Executors and Administrators 162 k 444(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k444 Allegation and Denial of Representative Capacity 162k444(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Where an administrator in detinue declares in the possession of his intestate, and the general issue is pleaded, the fact of his being administrator cannot be questioned under that plea. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. ALEXANDER BRECKENRIDGE, being possessed of a large real and personal estate, by this last will and testament, bearing date the 16th of May, 1797, made the following devise, to-wit: "I give to my beloved wife Jenny Breckenridge, to her and her heirs forever, all my estate, real and personal, except such as will hereafter be disposed of, which is to fulfill any contracts I may have made for the conveyance of lots of lands;" and then gave several specific tracts of land to his three sons. Alexander Breckenridge having afterward died, Mrs. Breckenridge, in June, 1801, proved the will and qualified as executrix; and she having some years thereafter died, the appellee, as administrator de bonis non of A. Breckenridge, brought an action of detinue against the appellant for sundry slaves of which the testator died possessed, and which came to the hands of the appellant after the death of Mrs. Breckenridge, the executrix. The cause was tried upon the general issue, and a verdict and judgment were obtained by the appellee; from which this appeal is prosecuted. *2 In the progress of the trial in the Court below, various points were made, and sundry exceptions taken to the decisions of that Court. The main question, however, is, whether the appellee has shown himself entitled to recover the slaves in contest? In the investigation of this question, we shall notice such of the subordinate points made in the case as are deemed material. It is clear that an administrator de bonis non is entitled to all the personal estate of the testator or intestate, which remains in specie, and the property of which has not been changed by the first executor or administrator--1 Salk. 106--Bac. Abr. title executor and administrator, letter B. According to this doctrine, whatever was assets in the hands of the first executor or administrator, will be assets in the hands of the administrator de bonis non unless the property therein has been changed in the course of administration. The first inquiry we shall then make, is, whether the slaves in contest were assets in the hands of the executrix of the testator. In making this inquiry, we shall not take into consideration the act of 1800, which provides that as respects last wills and testaments, slaves shall thereafter be held and deemed real estate, and shall pass thereby in the same manner and under the same regulations as landed property; because it is probable, from the date of the will and the time the probate was granted, that the testator died prior to the passage of that act, and because if the fact was otherwise, it ought to have been made to appear by the bill of exceptions, and not having been made so to appear, the party excepting cannot avail himself of it. By the laws in force prior to the passage of the act of 1800, slaves were declared to be real estate, but under various modifications. They were made liable to execution as personal estate; they might be recovered in personal action; they might be sold without writing; they would pass by a will in writing, or by a noncupative will, in the same manner as a chattel, and a remainder therein could be limited no otherwise than it could in a personal chattel; and they might be sold by executors or administrators for the payment of debts. From these provisions the inference is strong, that it was the intention of the legislature that slaves should be assets in the hands of executors or administrators. That they should be so, either in their hands or those of the heir, is evident; but to make them assets in the hands of the heir, would not completely obtain the objects of the law; for they are made liable to debts whensoever contracted, and whether the heir is bound or not; but upon a contract made prior to 1792, the heir, unless he was expressly bound, is not liable to be sued; and therefore to make slaves assets in the hands of the heir, and not in those of the executor or administrator, would in effect exempt them from the payment of that description of debts. Besides, to make them assets in the hands of the heir, would be incompatible with the right of the executor to sell them for the payment of debts; and still more so with the principle which has been sanctioned by this Court,FN(a) as well as the Court of Appeals in Virginia, that a bona fide purchaser will hold a slave sold by an executor or administrator, against the devisee or distributee, although the sale may not have been necessary for the payment of debts. It is, furthermore, a strong argument in favor of considering them as assets in the hands of the executor or administrator, and not of the heir, that they have been uniformly so treated in practice. FN(a). Coleman v. Hutchinson, vol. 3, 210-- Stamps v. Beaty, Hard. 337. *3 Upon the whole, therefore, we conclude that the slaves in contest were on the death of the testator assets in the hands of the executrix,FN(a) and that consequently if the property in them has not been changed by some act of hers, they will go to the administrator de bonis non. We are then led to the inquiry, whether any such act has been done by her? It is not pretended that she sold them, or otherwise parted with them, in the course of administration; but it is contended that she had a right to them as devisee, and that she held them in that character, and not as executrix. FN(a). Cox v. Robinson, vol. 1, 604. The general rule is, that where a thing is devised or bequeathed to an executor, that he will hold it as an executor, until he makes his election to take it as devisee--1 Com. Dig. 383, and the authorites there cited. An election may be express or implied; but in this case there is no express election shown to have been made by the executrix to take as devisee, nor is any act proven to have been done by her from which such an election might be implied. It results, therefore, that she held them as executrix, and not as devisee; at least there is nothing in the record from which a contrary inference can be deduced. While on this branch of the case, it may be proper to mention a point which was apparently deemed by both parties to be of great importance. It was contended upon the part of the appellee, and denied on that of the appellant, that the devise to Mrs. Breekenridge was conditional; that is, upon condition that she should fulfill the testator's contracts for land. And for the purpose of showing that the devise had become void by a failure to comply with the condition, the appellee produced evidence in the Court below, of the existence of contracts of that kind which had not been complied with; to the admission of which evidence the appellant excepted. But if the view which we have taken of the case be correct, it is obvious that this point is immaterial: for the validity of the devise cannot affect the right of the appellee to recover in this case, unless the executrix had made an election to take as devisee. But no evidence having been produced of her having done so, that produced on the part of the appellant was irrelevant; and any opinion upon the construction of the will, would be extra judicial. As, however, the evidence upon this point was irrelevant, it was evidently objectionable on that score, and the Court erred in admitting it. On this ground, therefore, the judgment must be reversed. Another point which seems material to be noticed, is, whether it was necessary for the plaintiff to produce a certificate or other evidence of his having obtained letters of administration de bonis non? There is some apparent contrariety of authority upon this point, but when properly understood, the cases may, we apprehend, be reconciled. The distinction seems to be between cases where the executor or administrator declares upon his own possession, and those where he declares upon the possession of his testator or intestate. In the former case it is held to be necessary, upon the general issue, for him to prove that he is executor or administrator, unless he has had the actual possession, which is prima facie evidence of title. But in the latter case such evidence is not necessary, nor will the defendant be permitted to controvert the fact, otherwise than by special plea--2 Saund. 47 (k). In this case the plaintiff declared upon the possession of the testator, and it was not therefore necessary to produce evidence of having obtained letters of administration. *4 The judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded that new proceedings may be had not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1815. Floyd v. Breckenridge 4 Bibb 14, 7 Ky. 14, 1815 WL 633 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
