(Cite as: 3 Bibb 207,  6 Ky. 207 (Ky.),  1813 WL 652 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Richardson, administrator, etc. v. Brown. Oct. 26, 1813. West Headnotes Usury 398 k 20 398 Usury 398I Usurious Contracts and Transactions 398I(A) Nature and Validity 398k17 Loans or Advances of Money 398k20 k. Repayment in Medium Other Than Money. Most  Cited Cases A. executed a sealed instrument, acknowledging to have borrowed of B. $200, and agreed to deliver a negro boy, to be kept for the use of said money, and as collateral security. Held that, as the boy was worth $80 per annum, the agreement was usurious and void. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 ON the 24th of October, 1808, Riddle executed to Brown a writing under seal, whereby he acknowledged to have borrowed of him $200, and agreed to deliver to him a negro boy, to be kept for the use of said money and as a security for its repayment. Riddle having departed this life, Brown filed his bill in chancery, upon the above mentioned agreement, against the heirs and administrator of Riddle. The heirs demurred to the bill, and the demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed as to them. The administrator answered and denied that in truth there was $200 loaned by Brown to his intestate: but insisted if there were that sum loaned, that as the boy who was agreed to be given for the use of the money was worth $80 per annum, the agreement was usurious and void. If one lends money and takes as security for repayment a mortgage on a negro, and contracts to have for the interest of the money the use of the negro, which greatly exceeds the legal interest, the contract is usurious and void. If the lender exhibits his bill in chancery to foreclose the equity of redemption and the borrower proves the usury, the contract is void in equity, as well as at law, and the chancellor should dismiss the bill. The Court below being of opinion that the sum borrowed was about $170, decreed the administrator of Riddle to pay that sum to Brown; to reverse which decree this writ of error is prosecuted. Two points arise in this case--1. Whether the agreement is usurious or not? And 2. Whether, notwithstanding it be usurious, a Court of Equity can decree the principal sum loaned to be repaid upon a bill filed by the lendee? With respect to the first point, we can perceive no room for doubt. There is here plainly a loan of money, and the negro boy which was agreed to be given for the use of the money, is admitted by the complainant to be worth 80 dollars per annum. The act against usury FN(a) inhibits the taking, "either directly or indirectly, for the loan of any money, wares or merchandise or other commodity, above the value of six pounds for the forbearance of one hundred pounds for a year, and after that rate for a greater or less sum or for a longer or shorter time." FN(a).  2 Littell, 45?? The value per annum of the negro boy agreed to be taken for the use of the money loaned, being, according to the admission of the party himself, above that which is allowed to be taken by the statute is therefore clearly within the terms of the inhibition. That the thing which was to be taken for the use of the money loaned was property, cannot affect the case: for to bring a case literally within the statute, it is plainly not necessary either that the thing loaned or that which is received for the forbearance thereof should be money FN(a). FN(a). 1 Hawkins' Pl. C. Usury, sec. 22, p 532--Cowper 115, Floyer v. Edwards, 793, Jestons v. Brooke--Douglas 736 to 744, Lowe v. Waller--2 Black. 792--3 Wilson, 250. The second point is one of still less difficulty. The statute expressly declares all agreements made contrary to its provisions void, and a Court of Equity is no less bound by its provisions than a Court of Law. It is true that the statute authorizes the borrower to go into equity to obtain of the lender a discovery of the usurious consideration upon which the agreement is founded, and in that case permits him to be relieved against the payment of interest only. This provision of the statute is founded upon the principle that he who applies to a Court of Equity for relief, must himself do what is equitable. But it is evident that neither the provision of the statute in favor of the borrower, nor the principle upon which that provision is supposed to be bottomed, can apply to the lender, or justify a Court of Equity in giving him relief, either in whole or in part, upon an agreement made contrary to the prohibition of the statute. *2 The decree is therefore erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that the bill may be dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1813. Richardson v. Brown 3 Bibb 207, 6 Ky. 207, 1813 WL 652 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
