(Cite as: 3 T.B.Mon. 130,  19 Ky. 130 (Ky.),  1826 WL 1248 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mackall v. Roberts. Apr. 5, 1826. *1 Pleading. Non Joinder. Abatement. Demurrer. ERROR TO THE LOGAN CIRCUIT; HENRY P. BROADNAX, JUDGE. West Headnotes Parties 287 k 84(2) 287 Parties 287VI Defects, Objections, and Amendment 287k81 Nonjoinder of Party Defendant 287k84 Necessity, Mode, and Time of Objection 287k84(2) k. Plea in Abatement. Most Cited  Cases Nonjoinder of defendants in actions on contract may be pleaded in abatement, but can be excepted to in no other way, unless such nonjoinder appears on the record. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH. J. BOYLE. On a demurrer to an action by petition and summons, brought by the plaintiff, as assignee of a note purporting to be executed by the defendant and another, the Circuit Court gave judgment for the defendant; to which the plaintiff prosecutes this writ of error. Suit by petition and summons on a note purporting to have been executed by defendant and another. The ground upon which the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer is not explicitly stated in the record, and as the note is for the direct payment of money, upon which the action by petition properly lies, and the proceedings are in all respects strictly regular, except the action is brought against only one of the two persons who appear to have signed the note, we infer that to be the only ground upon which the circuit court sustained the demurrer. Assuming this to be the only ground upon which that court decided, it is apparent that the court must have labored under a mistake by not adverting to the distinction between cases where all the persons who ought to join in an action upon a contract have not joined in bringing the action, and those cases in which all the persons who ought to be sued in such an action have not been joined as defendants. In cases of the former kind, if the defect is apparent on the face of the declaration, advantage may be taken of it by demurrer, motion in arrest of judgment, or writ of error; but in cases where all the persons are not joined as defendants, who ought to have been joined the law is well settled that no advantage can be taken of the nonjoinder, but by plea in abatement. Non joinder of a defendant in an action ex contractu is matter of plea in abatement, not demurrer. Non joinder of a plaintiff may be taken advantage of by demurrer. The judgment of the circuit court is, therefore, erroneous, and must be reversed with cost, and the cause be remanded that further proceedings be there had, not inconsistent with this opinion. Swigert, for plaintiff. Ky.App. 1826. Mackall v. Roberts 3 T.B.Mon. 130, 19 Ky. 130, 1826 WL 1248 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
