(Cite as: 1 Bibb 320,  4 Ky. 320 (Ky.),  1809 WL 716 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Greenup and Innes v. Barbee's executor, etc. Apr. 20, 1809. *1 Members of a company not incorporated are responsible individually for the company debts, and are not exonerated by an exhaustion of the property put into stock. But persons acting as managers, not members of the association, and having no interest, are not responsible for company debts contracted by them as managers, unless for fraud, excess of their authority, or receipts of money not paid over; Hodgson v. Dexter, 1 Cranch 363; M'Beath v. Haldimand, 1 term Rep. 172; Unwin v. Wolseley, 1 term Rep. 674. West Headnotes Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 3560 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101XV Unincorporated Business Organizations 101XV(C) Joint Stock Companies 101k3555 Shareholders and Members 101k3560 k. Liability for acts and debts of company.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 225k15(1)  Joint-Stock Companies and Business Trusts) Corporations and Business Organizations 101 k 3565 101 Corporations and Business Organizations 101XV Unincorporated Business Organizations 101XV(C) Joint Stock Companies 101k3562 Directors, Officers, and Agents 101k3565 k. Rights, duties, and liabilities;  actions.  Most Cited Cases (Formerly 225k15(1)  Joint-Stock Companies and Business Trusts) Members of an unincorporated company are liable individually for the company debts beyond the amount of property put into the common stock;  but managers of such a company, not members thereof, can make themselves personally liable only by acting fraudulently or exceeding their authority. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. IT appears, from the allegations and admissions of the parties in this case, that in 1789 a company was formed for the purpose of establishing a cotton manufactory in the town of Danville; that the plaintiffs and Thomas Barbee, dec'd, under the name of managers, were appointed agents to superintend and manage the affairs of the company; that, in execution of their agency, they addressed a letter to John Brown, then at Philadelphia, requesting him, in the name and for the benefit of the company, to purchase the necessary machinery, and employ persons with the requisite skill to carry on the manufactory, and forward them to Kentucky; that Brown, in accomplishing the objects of the managers, found it necessary, in addition to the money they transmitted to him, to advance of his own a considerable sum, which afterward, on an adjustment of his accounts, was, by a note in writing, signed by the plaintiff, Innes and Thomas Barbee, dec'd, two of the managers, acknowledged to be due to him from the company; that the project afterward having failed, the house, and other property belonging to the company, were sold by the sheriff, under executions for debts due from the company: and that a considerable part of Brown's demand still remaining unpaid, Thomas Barbee, dec'd, gave him an order upon the sheriff for the amount, to be paid from the sale of the house, called the manufactory. On this order, the sheriff having paid but a small part of it, Brown instituted a suit at law against the defendant, as executor of Thomas Barbee, dec'd, and recovered judgment by confession, reserving equity. The defendant then filed his bill, with an injunction, and made Brown and the plaintiffs defendants thereto; and, on the hearing of the cause, the Court below decreed the injunction to be dissolved and the bill to be dismissed as to Brown, and that the plaintiffs should pay to the defendant two thirds of the amount of the judgment at law. *2 The first, second, and third errors assigned in the case question the propriety of the decree against the plaintiffs in toto, and involve the inquiry whether they are in any degree responsible to the defendant. It is evident that the company are liable to the defendant for the amount he has been, or may be compelled to pay on their account. As the company was not an incorporated body, the total exhaustion of the property put into common stock in the payment of demands upon the company does not exonerate the members of it from further responsibility. They continue responsible in their individual capacities to the full amount of every debt justly due from the association. But it does not appear that the plaintiffs in this case were members of the association, or that they were any otherwise concerned than as managers or agents for the company. In that capacity they could make themselves personally liable only by acting fraudulently, or exceeding their authority, or by receiving money belonging to the association which they had not accounted for; but none of these charges are alleged by the defendant, nor does there appear anything in the cause by which such charges could be supported. Upon the whole, the Court are clearly of opinion that the decree is erroneous. Ky.App. 1809. Greenup v. Barbee's Ex'r 1 Bibb 320, 4 Ky. 320, 1809 WL 716 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
