(Cite as: 4 Bibb 334,  7 Ky. 334 (Ky.),  1816 WL 752 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Jones v. Overton. May 21, 1816. *1 In writ of forcible entry and detainer, matter of abatement only cannot be pleaded or given in evidence. And a warrant by one of several co-heirs is not void. Where the lessee was to make repairs, and the lessor had his election to pay for the repairs or to let the lease continue until the rent reimbursed the repairs, the lessor cannot maintain his writ of forcible detainer against the tenant, without showing that he paid or tendered the excess of the repairs above the year's r?? West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 12(1) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k12 Defenses 179k12(1) k. In general. Most Cited Cases In an action of forcible entry and detainer, matter in abatement only is not an available defense. Landlord and Tenant 233 k 1786 233 Landlord and Tenant 233VIII Reentry and Recovery of Possession by Landlord 233VIII(D) Actions for Unlawful Detainer 233k1783 Right of Action and Defenses 233k1786 k. Grounds of action. Most Cited  Cases (Formerly 233k290(2)) Where a lessee was to make repairs, and the lessor at his election was to pay for the repairs or to let the lease continue until the rent reimbursed the repairs, the lessor could not maintain forcible detainer against the defendant without showing that he had paid the excess of the repairs above the year's rent. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was a warrant for a forcible detainer, brought by one of several co-heirs of the lessor, against the assignee of the lessees. It would certainly have been more regular for the other heirs to have joined, but their not having done so is but matter of abatement; and it is plain from the provisions of the act of assembly giving this remedy for the restitution of the possession of lands, that mere matter of abatement is not an available defense: for there is not only no mode pointed out by which advantage might be taken of it, but the proceedings required to be had before the justice of the peace, as well as the nature of the issue made up by a traverse of the inquisition, evidently excludes all inquiry into matters which operate in abatement only. We are, however, of opinion that the plaintiff could not maintain the warrant in this case without showing that the repairs made upon the premises by the lessees, if of greater value than the amount of the rent which had accrued, was previously paid for by him; for the term was to continue until the repairs were paid for out of the rent, subject however to the condition, that the lessor should, if the repairs exceeded one year's rent, "have his option either to let the term continue or pay the overplus." It was only by paying the overplus, therefore, that the term could be made to expire before the rent should amount to a sum equal to the value of the repairs; and unless the term had expired the warrant could not be maintained. *2 The Court below, having decided this point otherwise, their decision is erroneous. Judgment reversed, etc. Ky.App. 1816. Jones v. Overton 4 Bibb 334, 7 Ky. 334, 1816 WL 752 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
