(Cite as: 3 Bibb 160,  6 Ky. 160 (Ky.),  1813 WL 632 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Carson etc. v. Hanway etc. Nov. 20, 1813. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases Where land is entered beginning at "B.'s northeast corner," and running with "R.'s pre-emption," to sustain the entry, the identity and notoriety of the claims referred to should be proved. Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases February 9, 1786, A. enters land "beginning at B.'s northeast corner;  running with his line south 300 poles;  turning west with his line 250 poles;  thence south 300 poles;  thence east 250 poles;  thence south 300;  thence east joining Reed's pre-emption of 1,000 acres;  thence with his line down the creek to the corner;  and continuing with his line east at right angles, to include the quantity."  Held that, as the survey, made according to the entry, would contain more than its quantity, the lines on the calls for distances should be contracted in proportion to their respective lengths, so as barely to include the quantity mentioned in the entry, by complying with the other calls. Public Lands 317 k 151(4) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(4) k. Warrant and Survey. Most Cited  Cases Where the law requires a survey to be recorded within three months after it is made, it will be presumed to be of record after that time, and a call for it in another entry will render the description in the certificate of survey a part of the description in the adjoining entry. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS is a contest for land, and depends upon the validity of the following entry: "February 9th, 1784--Israel Gilpin enters 790 acres of land, beginning at John Lacy's northeast corner, running with his line south 300 poles, turning west with his line 250 poles, thence south 300 poles, thence east 250 poles, thence south 300, thence east, joining Reed's pre-emption of 1000 acres, thence with his line down the creek to the corner and continuing with his line east at right angles to include the quantity." This entry containing no other description than by reference to the lines of the claims therein mentioned, can only be sustained by proof of the identity and notoriety of those claims. Lacy's claim is a pre-emption of 1000 acres; and his survey, calling to lie on Stoner's fork of Licking bears date the 15th of February 1783. The lines of this survey are sufficiently identified, but there is no proof that they had in fact acquired any notoriety at the date of the entry in question: and it may be assumed as a settled rule, that the circumstance that the survey is of record, is not a ground upon which it can be presumed that its lines had become notorious. That a survey was of record, is not presumptive evidence of notoriety--Accord. Neale v. Galloway, vol. 1, 140-- Key v. Matson, Hard. 70 to 75. When a survey has been so long made that the law requires it to be of record, FNa1 it will be presumed to be so; and a call for its lines in an entry will render itFNd1 a part of the description of such entry: but it is only in proportion as that description is in itself precise and certain, that it can impart precision and certainty, to the entry dependant upon it. FNa1. Three months at farthest after the survey is made--Vide Chan. Rev. ch. 13. p. 96, 1 Littell's E. L. K. p. 412. FNd1. In cases heretofore decided, it seems to have been considered that an entry made and calling to adjoin a survey within twelve months after that survey was made could not be aided by the description contained in the certificate of survey--Vide vol. 1 Galloway v. Neale, 140--M'Cracken v. Steele, 48--Clelland's heirs v. Gray, 40--Ward and Lee on Young's claim, 27--vol. 2, Davis v. Bryant. 113, 114--Davis v. Davis, 137-- Wilson v. Mason, 1 Cranch p. 99, 100_____See act of Virginia 1779, Chan Rev. ch. 13, p. 97_____1 Littell's E. L. K. p 146. as follows: "And for preventing hasty and surreptitious grants, and avoiding controversies and expensive law suits. be it enacted, that no surveyor shall at any time within twelve months after the survey made, issue or deliver any certificate, copy or plat of land by him surveyed, except only to the person or persons for whom the same was surveyed, or to his, her or their order, unless a caveat shall have been entered against a grant to the person claiming under such survey, to be proved by an anthentic certificate of such caveat from the clerk," etc. When a survey has been so long made that the law required it to be recorded, it will be presumed to have been of record; and a call for it in another entry will render the description in the certificate of survey a part of the description in the adjoining entry. *2 That the person was actually living on his survey, is presumptive evidence that the land was known to the generality of persons in the vicinity. Although the lines were not notorious, yet as the body of the claim was notorious the lines might have been found by reasonable diligence of inquiry-- Accord Estill v. Hart's heirs, Hard. 576. Lacy's survey had been so long made, that it must be presumed to be of record; but the only object called for by it, which at the date of the entry was notorious, is Stoner's fork; and that stream being of considerable length, the call for it is too vague and indescriptive to afford much, if any aid in support of the entry. It appears, however, that Lacy had built a cabin and actually settled upon his survey prior to, and continued to reside thereon until shortly after the location in question had been made. This circumstance, naturally calculated to attract attention, is in itself sufficient to authorize a presumption that the land was known as his by the generality of those conversant in the vicinity; and this presumption is fortified by the proof in the cause of his having been visited by many hunters and travelers during his residence there. Although, therefore, the certificate of survey was not sufficiently descriptive, nor the lines thereof notorious, yet as by his actual occupancy of the land his claim must have became known to those conversant in the neighborhood, it could not have required more than reasonable diligence to enable a subsequent locator to have found the lines of the survey. Notoriety, with respect to each particular object of location, has never been deemed requisite to establish an entry. According to the uniform course of decision, if there be such a connection between the particular objects of location and others which are notorious and referred to either expressly or by implication, that the former may without difficulty be found, it will be sufficient without showing that they were also notorious. The only other object called for is Reed's pre-emption. It had been assigned to May, and by him to Craig and Johnson, in whose names the entry and survey were made. The survey bears date more than a year prior to the time when the entry in question was made, and must therefore be presumed to be of record. But the entry not having called for the survey by the names of Craig and Johnson, in whose names it could alone be found of record, it is clear that the description contained in the certificate of survey cannot afford any aid to the entry. An entry calling for Reed's pre-emption, when it had been assigned, entered and surveyed for Craig and Johnson, cannot derive any aid from the certificate of survey. We conceive, however, that aid from that source is not necessary to the support of the entry: for it appears that there were six or eight persons in company at making the survey, all of whom knew that it was made for Reed's pre-emption; and it is expressly proven that the survey, from the time when it was made until after the date of the entry in question, was generally known by the name of Reed's pre-emption. This testimony is not contradicted, and is in itself entirely probable. It was natural, and believed to be usual in such cases for the survey to have retained the name of the original owner of the claim; and from the number of persons at the making of the survey, it is by no means improbable that the name should have been considerably diffused. *3 But the claim continuing to be called and generally known as Reed's it is a sufficient call of location. We accord, therefore, with the Court below in believing that the objects of location are sufficiently established. But that Court, in directing the mode of making the survey, have rejected the calls "thence east 250 poles, thence south 300." This, we think is altogether arbitrary and unwarranted by any rule. There are instances perhaps in which words may be rejected in the construction of entries; but this ought to be done with great caution, and never but where the sense of the language used necessarily required it. This, we apprehend, is not the case in the present instance. It is true that if there be full effect given to all the calls of the entry, the boundaries described will contain more than the quantity of land entered, and the call "thence east joining Reed's pre-emption of 1000 acres," cannot be complied with as far as regards the course. But it is much more rational to suppose that the locator was mistaken in the distances and situation of the objects called for, than that he should have inserted two distinct calls which were not intended to have any effect. Words in an entry ought never to be rejected but where the sense necessarily requires it. The course east, to join Reed's pre-emption, must yield so far as is necessary to join the pre-emption. An entry cannot take more land than is located, but a surplus within the given boundaries of a few acres ought not to vitiate the whole entry. If the entry gave a boundary all around by objects, so that there was no reason to make one yield more than another, which boundaries contained too much land, the entry would be good only for so much land as would be common to survey of the proper quantity made upon each boundary--See Morgan v. Robinson, Pr. Dec. 269--Craig v. Rogers, Hard. 138;--Smith v. Harrow, vol. 1, 102--McCracken v. Steele, vol. 1, 51--Marshall v. Rough's heirs, vol. 2, 631-2. But if the boundaries were so extensive that surveys on the different boundaries given might be made of the quantity, without having any lands in common, the entry would be void for uncertainty. Calls for visible objects, and for distances, being repugnant, the latter shall yield to the former as far as is necessary. There is no doubt that the course mentioned in the call "thence joining Reed's pre-emption," should be made to yield so far as to comply with the other branch of the call, by running the line to the southwestern corner of the survey upon Reed's pre-emption: for the course being given only as a mean to lead to the object, it is right that the latter should control the former. But as the survey when made according to the construction of the entry, would contain some acres more than its quantity, it becomes necessary to determine what effect this circumstance should have upon the entry and the mode of surveying it. It is clear that the claimant cannot be entitled to more than the quantity located; but a surplus of a few acres ought not, we apprehend, to vatiate the whole entry. If the whole of the boundaries were described by sensible objects, so that there could be no reason for one to yield to or control another, the entry could only be good for so much as would be covered in common by surveys of the proper quantity made upon each of the boundaries. But if the boundaries were so extensive that surveys might be made on different parts of the boundaries without covering any land in common, the entry would be good for none, as was decided in the case of Bush v. Jameson, (ante 121). But where (as in this case) some of the boundaries are described by sensible objects, and others by distances only, there seems some reason for making the latter yield to the former. Accordingly in the case of Preble v. Vanhoover (vol. 2, 118) FN(a), the entry of the appellee, calling for boundaries containing a greater quantity than he was entitled to, was sustained by shortening the distances called for so far as by complying with the other objects described in the entry, the survey would contain its proper quantity. This is clearly a case in point, and must govern the construction of the entry in the present case. FN(a). Patterson v. Bradford, Hard. 107--Bosworth v. Maxwell, Har. 205. *4 The survey should then be made by contracting the lines on the calls for distances in proportion to their respective lengths, so much as will barely include the quantity mentioned in the entry by complying with the other calls. To so much as will be included in a survey thus made, and is included in the surveys as made upon the entry, the complainants are entitled. But as this mode of surveying will give to the defendants land which they lost by the decree of the Court below, that decree is so far erroneous and must be reversed with costs, etc. Ky.App. 1813. Carson v. Hanway 3 Bibb 160, 6 Ky. 160, 1813 WL 632 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
