(Cite as: 4 Bibb 576,  7 Ky. 576 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1118 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hanley s heirs v. Hardin. May 29, 1817. *1 An improvement known to the generality of persons residing at the nearest station, which was only a few miles distant and no other station within 30 or 40 miles, combined with other circumstances, adjudged to be a good object of location. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases A call for "A.'s improvement," known to the most of the people of the nearest station, three or four miles distant, there being no other station within 30 miles, was held good. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is a controversy for land. The appellant having the elder grant, the appellee filed his bill asserting his superior right in equity, founded upon the following entry, viz: "19th of May, 1780--Martin Hardin enters 1000 acres upon treasury warrant No. 2584, on the waters of Green river, on a west fork of a creek heading against Hardin's creek, to include the head waters of said creek, and an improvement of Leighton White's." Leighton White's improvement is identified by the proof in the cause beyond controversy; and if it were generally known at the date of the entry by those conversant in its vicinity, the location would be sufficiently established, without the aid of the other objects called for; for they were only intended as matter of description to direct a subsequent inquirer to the improvement, the only locative object called for: and if the latter were generally known in the neighborhood, such description would be unnecessary for such purpose; for a subsequent locator must be presumed to know that which was generally known by those conversant in its neighborhood. That White's improvement was at the date of the entry in question generally known by those conversant in its vicinity, is entirely probable. It appears to have been made early in the preceding year, by a company of explorers composed of White and several others, to all of whom it must have been known; and it is proved to have been known to a majority of the settlers in Hardin's station, which had been established about a month before the entry was made, at the distance of about 3 or 4 miles from the improvement, and was the only settlement within less than 30 or 40 miles. Beside, as Hardin's station was so remote from the other settlements of the country, it is natural to suppose that it was the only place to which persons desirous of obtaining information of the improvements or other objects of location in its neighborhood would have resorted; and it is impossible to believe, from the evidence in the cause, that any person could have gone there with a view of obtaining such information, without being informed of White's improvement. In addition, therefore, to those who are positively proven to have known of the improvement, the presumption is strong, that all those who were conversant in the neighborhood, after the settlement of Hardin's station, must have became acquainted with the improvement; and this presumption is in no slight degree ??ortified by the consideration that the improvement was itself rather remarkable, as it consisted of a cabin, which was at that time not very common in that part of the country, and was consequently calculated to attract attention and excite inquiry. Independent, therefore, of the general calls of description, we are of opinion the entry is sufficiently established; but were it necessary for the support of the entry, we should also think those calls, though the proof with respect to them is not perfectly satisfactory, might afford some aid to the location; for the improvement is in fact upon a west fork of a creek which empties into Green river, and heads against what is now and has been long well known by "Hardin's creek." It is true that Hardin's creek had before the settlement of Hardin's station, been known by a different name; and although the proof is not precise as to the time when the former name was abandoned, and that of Hardin's creek came into general use, yet as the latter was assumed in consequence of the settlement of Hardin's station on the creek, the presumption is pretty strong that the charge in its commencement at least must have been coeval with the settlement of the station, and that the creek was at the date of the entry sufficiently known in its neighborhood by the name of Hardin's creek to render a call for it by that name good. *2 The decree of the Court below sustaining the entry is, therefore, correct, and must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1817. Hanley's Heirs v. Hardin 4 Bibb 576, 7 Ky. 576, 1817 WL 1118 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
