(Cite as: 2 Bibb 330,  5 Ky. 330 (Ky.),  1811 WL 799 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Moore's executors v. Paul. Spring Term, 1811. *1 Profert of a specialty is not necessary where it has been pleaded and remains in another Court or in the same Court in another action, such former profert being averred. In an action against two or more executors if the writ is served on one and the others returned not found, the plaintiff may take judgment against all. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 453(2) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k453 Judgment 162k453(2) k. Rendition, Form, and Requisites. Most Cited  Cases In an action against two or more executors, if the writ is served on one, and the others are returned not found, the plaintiff may take judgment against all. Pleading 302 k 305 302 Pleading 302IX Profert or Oyer 302k305 k. Profert. Most Cited Cases Profert of a specialty is not necessary where it has been pleaded and remains in another court, or in the same court in another action, and where such former profert has been averred. Executors and Administrators 162 k 441 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k441 k. Process and Appearance. Most Cited Cases In an action against two or more executors, if the writ is served on one, and non est inventus returned as to the others, the plaintiff may take judgment against all. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS suit was brought against the present plaintiffs, as executors of James F. Moore, deceased. The writ was served upon two of them and returned not found as to the other. In the declaration, the plaintiff in the action made profert of a copy of the writing upon which suit was brought, alleging that the original was filed in the clerk's office of the Jefferson Circuit Court. The defendants failing to appear, judgment was taken against the whole of them for the debt in the writing mentioned, and costs; to which judgment this writ of error with supersedeas is prosecuted. The errors assigned which are deemed material to be noticed, are, 1. That there was no profert made of the writing upon which suit was brought; and 2. That the judgment was erroneously taken against the defendant upon whom the writ had not been executed. Where an action is founded upon a specialty, it is a general rule that profert must be made of it; but this rule is not without exceptions; one of these exceptions is, where the specialty has been pleaded in another Court-- See Wymore's case, 5 Coke, 74, b. 75, a. The reason is that in that case the original cannot be had, and a copy of necessity must be used. If in such a case a profert is unnecessary, it is much more so in a case like the present, where the original is averred to be in the same Court where the cause is depending. For what purpose shall the plaintiff be compelled to say he brings it into Court, when it is already among the files of the Court? A profert of the copy was indeed unnecessary, since the averment that the original was with the files of the Court, is equivalent to a profert of the original. It is, however, but surplusage, and the rule is that surplusage does not vitiate. *2 With respect to the second error, it is a well settled doctrine, that where there are several executors defendants, and the writ is executed as to one, and returned not found as to the others, the plaintiff may take judgment against the whole--Rause v. Etherington, 1 Salk. 313, same case, 2 Ld. Raym. 870. The judgment for costs is a necessary incident of the principal judgment, and is in this case entered according to the English forms, and the universal practice of this country. The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed, with damages and costs. Ky.App. 1811. Moore's Ex'rs v. Paul 2 Bibb 330, 5 Ky. 330, 1811 WL 799 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
