(Cite as: 4 Bibb 76,  7 Ky. 76 (Ky.),  1815 WL 667 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Floyd and Chambers v. Harrison. May 31, 1815. *1 A case within the statute of frauds and perjuries, respecting the undertaking for the debt, duty or default of another. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 20 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185III Promises to Answer for Debt, Default or Miscarriage of Another 185k19 Promise to Indemnify 185k20 k. In General. Most Cited Cases A. sold B. a lot of land.  B. drew in A.'s favor a bill of exchange on D. for the price.  A., being applied to by C., to whom B. had sold the lot, refused to convey unless he was indemnified against B.'s bill which he had passed away by indorsement.  A bond of indemnity was drawn by C., but, as it misdescribed the bill, it was of no value.  Held, that the undertaking of C. was collateral and void by the statute of frauds. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is a writ of error to a decree pronounced in favor of the defendant in error against the plaintiffs, for the amount of a bill of exchange, costs of protest, damages, etc. The case, as made out by the defendant in error by his bill, is in substance as follows: That having sold to Benjamin Hovey a lot of ground, the latter drew in his favor a bill of exchange for the price, upon Uriah Tarcey, at Washington City; that on application being made for a title, by a person to whom Hovey had sold the lot, the defendant in error refused to convey, unless he was indemnified against the bill of exchange, he having passed it away by indorsement; that the plaintiffs in error thereupon entered into a covenant for that purpose and in consequence thereof he conveyed the lot; but that the covenant so entered into by the plaintiffs was by mistake so drawn as to purport to indemnify him for the indorsement made by him on a bill of exchange drawn by Benjamin Hovey in favor of Prather and Smiley, when in truth there was no such bill, instead of being written as it was intended to indemnify him for the indorsement made by him on a bill drawn in his own favor. The statute against frauds and perjuries, is the only ground of defense relied on by the plaintiffs in error. It is very clear that they were under no obligation to indemnify the defendant, prior to entering into the covenant; for they were not parties to the bill of exchange, nor were they concerned in interest in the contract which was the consideration upon which the bill was drawn. Their undertaking, therefore, was collateral; or in the words of the statute against frauds and perjuries, it was to answer for the debt, default or miscarriage of another person; and consequently, unless it be in writing it comes literally within the provisions of the statute. To take the case out of the provisions of the statute it is not sufficient that there is a writing between the parties, unless the writing were expressive of the duty or obligation which the suit or action is intended to enforce; for if the duty or obligation intended to be enforced, be not contained in the writing, it is obvious that the action must be founded upon a contract dehors the writing, and which can be established only by proof aliunde. Whether, in fact, the plaintiffs in error would be responsible upon their written agreement, is not material to determine in this case; for if they would, the defendant might have his remedy against them at law and on that ground a Court of Equity ought to refuse its aid. To sustain the jurisdiction of a Court of Equity, therefore, it is necessary to assume as a postulatum, that the plaintiffs in error are not responsible upon their written agreement; and indeed it is the manifest and avowed object of this suit, to extend their obligation to a case not provided for by that agreement. *2 The suit then having for its object the enforcement of a duty not arising from the written agreement, it results that it must be founded upon a contract existing in parol, and which can be established only by oral evidence. To sustain the suit, therefore, would be in direct violation of the letter as well as the spirit of the statute. Nor does the circumstance of their not being responsible on the written agreement, in consequence of a mistake in reducing the contract to writing, form an exception from the statute FN(a). There is certainly no such exception contained in the statute itself, and it would be arbitrary and unjustifiable in the Court to make an exception which the legislature have not made, nor indicated the slightest intention of making. Such a circumstance, no doubt would be an availing defense against an attempt to compel the specific execution of a written agreement; for although the statute prohibits an action from being brought on an agreement not reduced to writing, it does not say that every agreement in writing may be enforced by action. These are left upon the grounds upon which they stood before the passage of the statute; and it was always an admissible defense against the specific performance of a written agreement, to show by parol that it did not comport with the intention of the parties. But to enforce an agreement beyond, or contrary to the terms which are expressed in writing, on the ground of mistake would be repugnant to the express provisions of the statute, and wholly unwarranted by the most approved authorities-See Roberts on Frauds, 83, and the authorities there cited, and  4 Cranch, 415. FN(a). See vol. 2, Coger's ex'rs v. M'Gee, 323--Gartem, et ux v. Chandler 246. A majority of the Court (Judge LOGAN dissenting) are therefore of opinion that the bill was in this case improperly sustained. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded that the bill may be dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Floyd v. Harrison 4 Bibb 76, 7 Ky. 76, 1815 WL 667 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
