(Cite as: 4 Bibb 416,  7 Ky. 416 (Ky.),  1816 WL 801 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Pollard v. Holeman. Oct. 17, 1816. *1 The legislature had power to provide that upon an appeal from the judgment of a magistrate the Circuit Court should try the cause as if it had originated in that Court. And upon such appeal the question whether the act giving justices jurisdiction to the extent of fifty dollars was or was not constitutional, cannot arise. West Headnotes Justices of the Peace 231 k 162(2) 231 Justices of the Peace 231V Review of Proceedings 231V(A) Appeal and Error 231k162 Effect of Transfer of Cause or Proceedings  Therefor 231k162(2) k. Jurisdiction Acquired by Appellate Court.  Most Cited Cases Though the power of the legislature to increase the jurisdiction of justices may be questionable, where it provides that on appeal to the circuit court the latter court should proceed to hear and determine the case on the merits, it renders the judgment of a magistrate by appeal null and void, and the original validity of such judgment is immaterial. Justices of the Peace 231 k 173(3) 231 Justices of the Peace 231V Review of Proceedings 231V(A) Appeal and Error 231k170 Trial of Cause Anew 231k173 Scope of  Inquiry 231k173(3) k. Jurisdiction of Justice. Most Cited  Cases The validity of the statute of 1812, increasing the jurisdiction of justices, does not come in question on an appeal from a justice's judgment. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. The defendant in error having brought suit against the plaintiff before a justice of the peace, upon a note for 7l.i 9is., recovered judgment therefor, from which the plaintiff in error appealed to the Circuit Court. When the cause came on for trial in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff in error moved the Court to quash the judgment of the justice of the peace, upon the grounds that the acts of assembly increasing the jurisdiction of the justices of the peace are unconstitutional; but the Court being of opinion those acts were not unconstitutional, overruled the motion; and the plaintiff in error making no further defense, judgment was given against him for the amount of the note: to reverse which he prosecutes this writ of error. The point made in the Court below, which is the only one presented by the assignment of error in this Court, was, in the attitude in which the cause stood, wholly immaterial. For however questionable may be the power of the legislature to increase the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, there can be no doubt of its competency to provide that the Circuit Court, when the cause is brought before them, should proceed to hear and determine it upon its merits; and the legislature has in fact so provided. For in the fourth section of the "act to increase the jurisdiction of magistrates," it is expressly enacted, that the cause, when brought before the Circuit Court, "shall be tried and determined in all respects as it would or might have been, had it originally been instituted in said Court." *2 It is clear then that the judgment of the magistrate had by the appeal become null and inoperative. The Circuit Court were not authorized either to affirm or reverse it; but on the contrary they were bound without regard to it to decide the cause upon its merits. To require the Court, therefore, to quash the judgment of the magistrate, was requiring them to do that which if done could have no possible effect; and their refusal to sustain the motion for that purpose was certainly not erroneous. Judgment affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1816. Pollard v. Holeman 4 Bibb 416, 7 Ky. 416, 1816 WL 801 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
