(Cite as: 4 Bibb 358,  7 Ky. 358 (Ky.),  1816 WL 770 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Larue's heirs v. Slack and Frakes. Jun. 4, 1816. *1 In ejectment if the demise is laid from several persons, and it appears that the lessors are coheirs with others who have not joined, still the lessors have a right to recover their undivided interest. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 41 142 Ejectment 142II Jurisdiction, Parties, Process, and Incidental Proceedings 142k40 Parties Plaintiff 142k41 k. In General. Most Cited Cases If the demise is laid from several persons and it appears that the lessors are co-heirs with others who have not joined, still the lessors have a right to recover their undivided interest. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS is an appeal from a judgment for the defndants in an action of ejectment, on the trial of which it appeared that the lessors of the plaintiffs claimed the land in controversy as coheirs with others who had not joined in the demise laid in the declaration; and the only question material to be decided, is whether the other coheirs not having joined is a fatal objection to the right of the plaintiffs to recover in this case? This objection was taken in the case of Ward's heirs v. Harrison, (3 vol. 304) and was then held to be untenable. That decision, however, having been given without much argument, and the point being a novel one, we thought it proper to direct a re-argument of it in this case. But after all the light which the discussion in this case has thrown upon the subject, we are still of opinion the former decision of this Court is correct. It is true that no case has been found directly in point in support of that decision; but it is equally true that no case of that sort has been found which is opposed to it; and in the absence of any direct authority upon the point, the arguments as deduced in the former opinion of this Court from the general doctrine of the law in relation to the action of ejectment, is, we still apprehend, sufficient to justify that opinion. In such a case the plaintiff cannot recover the whole in severalty, but his recovery should be according to the extent of the title shown to be in the lessors. The judgment must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1816. Larue's Heirs v. Slack 4 Bibb 358, 7 Ky. 358, 1816 WL 770 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
