(Cite as: 3 Bibb 377,  6 Ky. 377 (Ky.),  1814 WL 799 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Russell's heirs, etc. v. Craig's devisee. Jul. 11, 1814. West Headnotes Abatement and Revival 2 k 72(7) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k72 Persons Required or Entitled to Continue or Revive  Action 2k72(7) k. Revival by Heir or by Devisee. Most Cited  Cases A suit in chancery on an adverse land claim cannot be revived in the name of a devisee. Abatement and Revival 2 k 75(1) 2 Abatement and Revival 2V Death of Party and Revival of Action 2V(B) Continuance or Revival of Action 2k75 Application and Proceedings Thereon 2k75(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases A suit in chancery on an adverse claim to land cannot be revived after the death of the complainant in the name of his devisees, the remedy being an original bill in the nature of a bill of revivor. Equity 150 k 304 150 Equity 150IV Pleading 150IV(F) Amended and Supplemental Pleadings and Revivor 150k303 Bill of Revivor 150k304 k. Nature and Office. Most Cited  Cases A devisee cannot have a bill of revivor. His remedy is by original bill. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 JOHN CRAIG filed his bill in chancery, alleging that he had an equitable title, by virtue of an entry of 1000 acres upon a treasury warrant, to a tract of land which the defendants held under elder grants, and prayed that they might be compelled to convey to him. The suit having abated by his death, it was revived by an order for that purpose in the name of Samuel Baird, to whom Craig had devised a part of the land in controversy. Baird prosecuted the suit to a final hearing, and a decree was pronounced by the inferior Court in his favor, from which decree this appeal is prosecuted. Suit in chancery on an adverse land claim cannot be revived in the name of a devisee, his remedy is by an original bill. The only question which we deem necessary to be particularly noticed is, whether the suit could be revived in the name of Baird as devisee. That a devisee may have an original bill to assert his right, when it is of a nature to be cognizable in a Court of Equity, there is no doubt; and where proceedings have been had by a suit in the name of the devisor, if the devisee wishes to obtain the benefit of such proceedings, it is clear that he may do so by an original bill in the nature of a bill of revivor. But according to the well settled doctrine in Courts of Chancery, a devisee cannot have a bill of revivor. A revivor is but a continuation of the cause, and can only be had in the name of the representative of him by whose death it abated; and as the heir is as to the real estate the legal representative of a man after his death, the suit can only be revived in his name when land is the subject of litigation. Thus it is held that an assignee or purchaser shall not have a bill of revivor for want of privity--1 Ver. 426-7. So a devisee being but a purchaser, and not representing the devisor, cannot have a bill of revivor--Hinde's Prac. 49, 69. A contrary doctrine is wholly irreconcilable with general principles, and would be attended with the most absurd consequences: for suppose as is in fact the case in this instance, the estate in litigation to be devised in severalty to a plurality of persons; in such a case it is evident that the devisee cannot join in a bill of revivor, because their interest is separate and distinct, and if one might have a bill of revivor each of the others might. This would be absurd or rather impossible; for after a suit had been once revived, it could not again be revived, when no second abatement had taken place. It was said in argument that this objection was not embraced in the assignment of error. This is true, but it can make no difference in the result of the case: for it is admitted that the decree is erroneous, in as much as it gives to the devisee in whose name the suit was revived, more and other land than he is entitled to under the will: and as it must be reversed on this ground, it is evident that this Court cannot, whatever might be their opinion of the merits of the devisee's claim, proceed to decree in his favor in this suit so erroneously revived in his name. *2 The decree of the Court below must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, that the order of revival be set aside and rescinded with costs. Ky.App. 1814. Russell's Heirs v. Craig's Devisee 3 Bibb 377, 6 Ky. 377, 1814 WL 799 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
