(Cite as: 4 Bibb 488,  7 Ky. 488 (Ky.),  1817 WL 1061 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cartmell v. Walton. Apr. 10, 1817. *1 Covenant for the non-delivery of salt on the issue of covenants performed, a receipt for salt and whisky is not admissible. Another covenant between the same parties introduced, and proof that the defendant confessed that the receipt was to be applied to the latter bond; such confessions are not evidence and the covenant should before it was admitted be proved by the subscribing witness. Formal defects in a plea cannot be taken advantage of on general demurrer. West Headnotes Sales 343 k 413 343 Sales 343VIII Remedies of Buyer 343VIII(C) Actions for Breach of Contract 343k410 Pleading 343k413 k. Issues, Proof, and Variance. Most Cited  Cases In an action of covenant for nondelivery of salt, on the issue of covenants performed, a receipt for salt and whisky was held not to be admissible. Evidence 157 k 371 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k371 k. Writings Collateral to Issues. Most Cited  Cases In an action of covenant for nondelivery of salt, on the issue of covenants performed, the defendant offered a receipt. The plaintiff offered in evidence another bond, and proof of confessions by the defendant that the receipt was to be applied on the latter bond. It was held that the evidence was inadmissible, without proof of the execution of the latter bond. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS was an action upon a covenant given by Walton to Christ, and assigned by Christ to Cartmell, bearing date the 20th of June, 1810, whereby Walton bound himself to deliver to Christ, at some of the salt works in Bullitt county, 450 bushels of salt, between that time and the 25th of December next come a year. The defendant pleaded, 1. Performance to the assignor before notice of the assignment to the plaintiff. 2. Accord and satisfaction to the assignor before notice of the assignment. On the first plea issue was joined, and to the second there was a demurrer. The demurrer was sustained; and the cause having come to trial upon the issue, the defendant offered in evidence a written acknowledgment by Crist of payment made by Walton of 230 bushels of salt and 535 1/2 gallons of whisky, to be credited on his note for whisky at the rate of 2s.i 3Id. per gallon, and salt at the rate of 4s. 10 1/2d. per bushel. To the reading of which in evidence the plaintiff objected; but the Court overruled the objection, and the plaintiff excepted. The plaintiff then introduced as evidence an instrument purporting to be another note or covenant, of the same date, from Walton to Crist, for the payment of the same quantity of salt, but payable the twenty-fifth of December next thereafter; but the defendant objected to its being read without proof of its execution by the subscribing witness; and the Court sustained the objection, to which the plaintiff took another exception. *2 The plaintiff then offered to prove the confession of the defendant, that he had given to Crist such a note as the last mentioned one, and that the payment made to Crist was to be applied as a credit to it; but such evidence having been objected to on the part of the defendant, it was rejected by the Court; and a verdict and judgment having been given for the defendant, the plaintiff has brought the case to this Court by the writ of error. 1. The paper purporting to be an acknowledgment by Crist of the receipt of salt and whisky in discharge of the note for salt, was clearly inadmissible. The only issue joined being upon the plea of covenants performed, no evidence could be admitted but that which tended to prove a performance of the covenant; and as the covenant was for the delivery of salt, a delivery of whisky could not be a performance of it. Proof, therefore, of such delivery was foreign from the issue, and consequently inadmissible. 2. The Court no doubt did right in rejecting the note offered in evidence by the plaintiff, without proof by the subscribing witness; nor was the confession of the defendant sufficient to authorize it to be admitted.--See Peak's Ev. 100. On this point this case is materially different from the case of  Brashear v. Burton, 7 Ky. 442: for in that case the person executing the instrument, being himself a competent witness, proved its execution in Court; but in this case the person executing the instrument contests its validity, and the proof offered is of his confessions out of Court. Such evidence was therefore properly rejected. As the judgment, however, must be reversed because of the admission of improper evidence, it becomes necessary to remark, that we can perceive no substantial defect in the plea of accord and satisfaction. It is, to be sure, not drawn with technical precision; but its defects being in the unessential parts only, cannot be taken advantage of on general demurrer. The decision of the Court, therefore, sustaining the demurrer, was erroneous, and must be set aside, and the plaintiff have leave to withdraw his demurrer and reply. Judgment reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1817. Cartmell v. Walton 4 Bibb 488, 7 Ky. 488, 1817 WL 1061 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
