(Cite as: 2 Bibb 88,  5 Ky. 88 (Ky.),  1810 WL 654 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Keans v. Rankin. Spring Term, 1810. *1 Informality in entering a judgment is no cause for reversal. Clerical mistakes may be amended at any time in the Court below--Accord. Boyle v. Connelly, 5 Ky. 7. West Headnotes Appeal and Error 30 k 648 30 Appeal and Error 30X Record 30X(J) Defects, Objections, Amendments, and Corrections 30k647 Amendment or Correction in Lower Court 30k648 k. Authority. Most Cited  Cases The lower court can amend the record after it has been transmitted, and certiorari will issue to bring up the amendment. Appeal and Error 30 k 1073(8) 30 Appeal and Error 30XVI Review 30XVI(J) Harmless Error 30XVI(J)23 Judgment or Order 30k1073 Judgment or  Order 30k1073(8) k. Trivial or formal defects. Most Cited  Cases Where a judgment is substantially right, it will not be reversed because of want of accuracy in form. Alternative Dispute Resolution 25T k 268 25T Alternative Dispute Resolution 25TII Arbitration 25TII(F) Arbitration Proceedings 25Tk268 k. Concurrence of arbitrators in proceedings and  decision. Most Cited Cases (Formerly 33k37  Arbitration) If the submission be to two arbitrators and their umpire, an award by the two, without an umpire, is good. Criminal Law 110 k 996(1) 110 Criminal Law 110XXIII Judgment 110k996 Amendment or Correction 110k996(1) k. In general. Most Cited Cases Clerical errors or omissions in the record of a criminal case may be amended, so as to make it conform to the truth. Opinion of the Court by Ch. J. BOYLE. THIS is a writ of error to a judgment upon an award. The first error alleges that the judgment on the award is informal. Such an objection cannot be noticed in this Court; an informality in entering the judgment, is but a cleric error, which is amendable at any time in the Court below, and the informality complained of has in fact been amended, as appears by the return to a certiorari awarded in this case. The second assignment alleges "that the award is defective, inasmuch as the submission was made to Daniel Halstead and John Anderson and their umpire, and the award is made by Daniel Halstead and John Anderson only." Though it would not have been error had the umpire joined in the award (3. Burr. 1474, 1 Bl. Rep. 463), yet it is also clear that the award by the arbitrators, without the umpire, is good: for umpire, in the common signification of the word, denotes one who is to decide the controversy, in case the others cannot agree--1 Bac. 211, letter D, title arbitrament and award. If submission is to two and their umpire, award by the two is good. Umpire is one who is to decide in case the arbitrators cannot agree. The third assignment, in substance, alleges that it does not appear that the arbitrators took the oath prescribed by law. *2 It appears from the award that they were sworn, and it must be presumed that the oath taken by them was such as is required by the act of assembly. If the award states the arbitrators were sworn, it is presumed that they took the oath required by the statute. The fourth error asserts that it does not appear from the award that the parties were present or had notice of the time and place of making the award. This objection seems to derive some pretext for its support from the opinion of this Court in the case of Shult v. Travis, Pr. Dec. 163. But the point before the Court in that case was whether it should appear from the award that copies were delivered to the parties. The opinion therefore expressed upon the question now under consideration, can be considered only as an obiter dictum, not entitled to the influence of a precedent. It seems to the Court that the law does not require it to appear from the award that the parties were present or had notice of the time of making the award, and therefore that the objection that they, or either of them, were not present or had not notice, is founded in fact dehors the award, and can only be made in the Court below in the first instance. That the arbitrators proceeded without notice to one of the parties must be objected in the Court below--the award need not recite that the parties were present or had notice of the meeting of the arbitrators. If parties agree that award shall be returned and entered as the judgment of the Court at same term at which the submission is entered, it is no objection to the judgment of that term that one of the parties was not present at the return and judgment. It is also assigned for error that it does not appear that the defendant in the Court below was present by himself or counsel when the award was returned and judgment entered up thereon. In answer to this objection, it may be remarked, that the order of submission was made on the 27th day of the term, and it was agreed by the parties that the award, when made out, should be returned to that term, and entered up as the judgment of the Court. It was accordingly made out and returned the next day, and judgment thereupon entered. The cause stood upon the issue docket, and not being continued to a future term, but by express consent of the parties to be ended at that term, it was the duty of the defendant to be in Court by himself or counsel when his cause was called and disposed of; and if not present, it was his own laches, of which he ought not to be permitted to avail himself.-- Judgment affirmed. Ky.App. 1810. Keans v. Rankin 2 Bibb 88, 5 Ky. 88, 1810 WL 654 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
