(Cite as: 3 Bibb 267,  6 Ky. 267 (Ky.),  1814 WL 751 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Miller v. Alcorn. Apr. 8, 1814. West Headnotes Contracts 95 k 346(14) 95 Contracts 95VI Actions for Breach 95k331 Pleading 95k346 Issues, Proof, and Variance 95k346(14) k. Variance as to Demand. Most Cited  Cases In assumpsit on a promise to pay a certain sum in trade, an averment of demand at defendant's usual place of residence and proof of a demand at the defendant's still house after dark is insufficient to enable plaintiff to recover. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS was an action of assumpsit, in which the plaintiff alleges a promise by the defendant to pay fifty dollars in trade, without any time or place being specified for the payment, and avers that on the ____ day of _______ he demanded payment of the defendant at his usual place of residence, and that the defendant refused to pay. Issue was joined on the plea of non-assumpsit. On the trial, the plaintiff having proved the promise substantially as laid, he introduced a witness who swore that he went with the plaintiff to the defendant's still-house, after dark in the evening, and stood there till some time in the night, and while there the plaintiff told the defendant he wanted the fifty dollars in trade which he owed him; that the parties talked something about an arbitration which had been between them, and the defendant said they had not fixed it right, that it was too much, and signified he would not pay what the plaintiff required unless forced. On this evidence the defendant moved the Court to instruct the jury that the demand was not sufficient to enable the plaintiff to recover, but the Court refused to instruct the jury as the defendant had asked, and on the application of the plaintiff instructed them that no further demand was necessary, on account of the defendant's refusal to pay. A verdict and judgment having been given for the plaintiff, the defendant has brought the case to this Court by writ of error. Assumpsit for 50 dollars in trade, averment of demand at defendant's usual place of residence, etc., and proof of a demand at the defendant's still-house after dark, insufficient to enable the plaintiff to recover. By a current of decisions it has been settled by this Court that where a contract for the payment of property specifies no time or place for the payment it is payable on demand at the usual place of the debtor's residence, and that in such case a demand must be precisely and specially alleged and proven. In this case the demand is sufficiently alleged; but the demand which was proven is not legal either in respect to time or place. Whether the intimation by the defendant that he would not pay, is a sufficient excuse for not making a demand at the proper time and place, does not seem material to be determined: for it is clear that an averment of the performance of an act necessary to be performed cannot be supported by proof of matter of excuse for the non-performance. So essential is the variance deemed between a performance and matter of excuse for non-performance, that where a party in pleading has alleged the former, as the ground of his claim or defense, he cannot afterward in support of such allegations allege the latter,FN(a) and if he does so it will be a departure which is held bad upon demurrer. Upon the same principle the variance between the allegation of the one and the proof of the other must be held to be fatal. FN(a). Pollard v. Taylor, vol. 2, 234-- Wathan v. Penebaker, 6 Ky. 99. We are therefore of opinion that the Court below erred in instructing the jury that no further proof of a demand was necessary to enable the plaintiff in that Court to recover in this case. *2 The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded for new proceedings to be had not inconsistent with the foregoing opinion. Ky.App. 1814. Miller v. Alcorn 3 Bibb 267, 6 Ky. 267, 1814 WL 751 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
