(Cite as: 3 Bibb 495,  6 Ky. 495 (Ky.),  1814 WL 844 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Marshall Key v. the Commonwealth. Nov. 22, 1814. West Headnotes Protection of Endangered Persons 315P k 35 315P Protection of Endangered Persons 315PII Security or Order for Peace or Protection 315PII(A) In General 315Pk35 k. Security for Good Behavior;  Peace Bonds. Most  Cited Cases (Formerly 62k22  Breach of the Peace) A recognizance to keep the peace is not forfeited by a breach committed out of the state. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. *1 THIS was a scire facias upon a recognizance acknowledged by the appellant on the 13th of February, 1812, in which he undertook that Thomas Marshall, jun., an infant under the age of 21, should personally appear on the first day of the Circuit Court to be holden next thereafter for the Mason circuit, to answer such matters as should be then and there alleged against him; and that he should in the meantime keep the peace and be of good behavior toward all the citizens of this Commonwealth, and particularly toward Isaac Bickly and Charles Mitchell. A breach of recognizance to keep the peace, committed out of the State, does not forfeit it. It appears from the record that Thomas Marshall appeared according to the requisition of the recognizance, but it was agreed that he and Charles Mitchell, who were citizens of this Commonwealth and residents of Mason county, subsequent to the date of the recognizance and prior to the day of appearance therein named, crossed the Ohio River and met in the State of Ohio and out of the jurisdiction of this Commonwealth, and mutually discharged at each other pistols loaded with powder and ball, and recrossed the river on the same day. And it was submitted to the Court whether the said meeting and firing at each other without the jurisdiction of this Commonwealth, was a breach of the recognizance? The Court below gave judgment against the appellant, from which he has appealed to this Court. The legislative authority of every State or empire is necessarily confined within the limits of the territory over which it possesses sovereign jurisdiction. This is a self-evident proposition, and is a fundamental principle in political science. The municipal law of every country is, therefore, in its nature territorial: and the common law, which forms the great body of the municipal law of this State, is strictly so. Its object is to regulate the conduct of those who are within the State, whether they be permanently or only temporarily resident here; but as the municipal law of this State, it can have no operation beyond the territorial limits of the Commonwealth. It follows, therefore, that an act of violence committed in the State of Ohio, as was agreed in this case to have been done, constitutes no offense against the laws of this State. Nor, as an offense against the laws of the State of Ohio, can the tribunals of this country regularly exercise a jurisdiction over it, either for its prevention or punishment. It is true that the laws of this State, as well as those of every civilized country, will for the sake of justice and for the purpose of promoting the social and commercial intercourse between citizens or subjects of different communities, afford a remedy for a private wrong or civil injury, if it be not local in its nature, although it be done without the limits of the State; and in such case, from a principle of comity among nations, the lex loci of the transaction becomes the rule of decision wherever the remedy may be sought. But this principle has never been extended to public wrongs or crimes and misdemeanors. The laws for the prevention or punishment of these, have according to the established usages of nations, no operation extra territorium; and the tribunals of one country never assume a jurisdiction to enforce the laws of another. *2 As then an act of violence done in the State of Ohio is not a violation of the peace of this Commonwealth, and cannot be cognizable by the Courts of this State, it results that it is not a breach of the recognizance; and consequently the judgment of the inferior Court is erroneous and must be reversed. Ky.App. 1814. Key v. Com. 3 Bibb 495, 6 Ky. 495, 1814 WL 844 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
