(Cite as: 4 Bibb 138,  7 Ky. 138 (Ky.),  1815 WL 692 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Wolscalfe, etc. v. Meriwether's heirs. May 27, 1815. *1 An object notorious in the vicinity, is a good call to uphold a location, without any other description of the neighborhood, unless two objects of same name are proved in different parts of the country. West Headnotes Public Lands 317 k 151(3) 317 Public Lands 317III Disposal of Lands of the States 317k151 Kentucky 317k151(3) k. Designation or Description of Lands Entered.  Most Cited Cases An entry which calls to include "a place known by the name of 'S.'," there being no other place in the country known by that name, was held good. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THE appellants, who were defendants in the Court below, hold the elder grant for the land in controversy in this case. It is therefore incumbent upon the appellees to show a valid entry, and if they do so, they will be entitled to the land, as far as their survey has conformed to their entry. Their entry was made the 29th of April, 1780, upon a pre-emption warrant of 1000 acres, and calls for "including a place known by the name of Stockfield. Beginning at a honey locust, corner to an old survey of Boone's; thence west, thence north for quantity, including Boone's old survey." It abundantly appears that Boone in 1776 had made a survey of 1000 acres, which includes a part of the land in controversy, under Henderson, who then claimed the whole country by purchase from the Indians; and that Boone denominated the survey thus made by him, the Stockfield Tract. The place intended to be appropriated by the entry, is therefore sufficiently identified. As to its notoriety, one witness swears that he became acquainted with the survey in the same year in which it was made, and that it was then generally known and continued to be so; another witness states expressly that the lines were generally known to hunters and others, at the date of the entry, and the other witnesses who were acquainted at that period with the neighboring country, state that they knew that there was a tract of land in that vicinity, though they had never seen the lines of the survey, which was called the Stockfield Tract. In the absence, then, of any opposing testimony, we feel ourselves bound to determine the evidence sufficient to establish the notoriety of the survey made by Boone, by the name of the Stockfield Tract. The objection that it was not generally known to the adventurers in every part of the country, cannot be sustained. If indeed it had been proven that any other tract any where in the country had been known by the name of the Stockfield, as the entry does not designate the part of the country in which it was intended to be located, the objection would have been fatal. But there is no proof to this effect, and as every locator must be presumed to have at least a general knowledge of the particular part of the country in which he was about to appropriate land, FN(a) it is sufficient for all the purposes of notice to him that the name by which the act is designated in the entry was known in its vicinity. FN(a). M'Gee v. Thompson, vol. 1, 132. *2 The Court below, therefore, correctly sustained the entry, and there is no objection made to the mode of surveying it. The decree must therefore be affirmed with cost. Ky.App. 1815. Wolfscale v. Meriwether's Heirs 4 Bibb 138, 7 Ky. 138, 1815 WL 692 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
