(Cite as: 2 Bibb 178,  5 Ky. 178 (Ky.),  1810 WL 687 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Picket, etc. v. Richet. Fall Term, 1810. *1 Verdicts are to be favorably construed; and if the point in issue is decided by the verdict, it is the duty of the Court to mould it into form--Acc. vol. i, Worford v. Isbel, 251--Crozier v. Gano, 257. Upon motion for new trial because of the absence of the party and his witnesses, it is not enough for the party to account for their absence, and make affidavit that he has a substantial defense, he must set forth the facts to be proved by the witnesses, that the Court may judge of their materiality-- Accord. Reed v. Miller, vol. i, 142. Plaintiff cannot take judgment against defendant and appearance bail after accepting appearance and plea without insisting on bail to the action. West Headnotes New Trial 275 k 125 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k125 k. Statement of Grounds in General. Most Cited Cases A party moving for a new trial ought to file in writing the reasons for his application. New Trial 275 k 147 275 New Trial 275III Proceedings to Procure New Trial 275k146 Affidavits as to Surprise, Accident, or Mistake 275k147 k. Necessity and Sufficiency in General. Most Cited  Cases The affidavit praying for a new trial for surprise, because of the absence of material witnesses, must set forth the names of the witnesses and the facts to which they will testify, or give a sufficient reason for the omission. Trial 388 k 329 388 Trial 388IX Verdict 388IX(A) General Verdict 388k329 k. Responsiveness to Issues. Most Cited  Cases Where the only issue joined in an action for a money demand was that made on a plea of tender, a general verdict for plaintiff will be construed as a finding against defendant on the issue of tender. Opinion of the Court by Ch. J. BOYLE. Judge WALLACE absent. THE following errors are assigned in this case: 1st. "The verdict of the jury is no answer to the issue; and, therefore, a venire facias de novo ought to have been awarded." 2d. "The inferior Court erred in refusing to grant a new trial upon the case as made out by the bill of exceptions." 3d. "Judgment is erroneously entered against the appearance bail; the defendants, by being permitted to appear and plead to the action without giving special bail, having released their appearance bail." The objection taken to the verdict, seems to be without foundation. The issue was joined upon a plea of tender, and the verdict was given by the jury in the following words: "We, of the jury, find for the plaintiff one hundred and thirty-three dollars and eighty cents in damages." Verdicts are to be favorably construed, and technical objections to the want of form in wording them disregarded. If it can be inferred from the verdict that the jury have found the point in issue, it is the duty of the Court to work and mould it into form according to the real justice of the case. Such is the substance of the rule laid down in Hawks v. Crofton, 2 Burrows 700, a rule which we think founded in good sense, and conducive to the ends of justice. *2 Where there is, as in the present case, but a single issue joined, a general verdict for the plaintiff or for the defendant, though less formal, is not less intelligible than if it concluded in the words of the issue. The second error assigned seems also untenable. The defendants by their affidavit exhibited in their bill of exceptions, after stating the absence of themselves and witnesses, when the cause was called for trial, and the reasons which, notwithstanding their exertions, prevented their attendance, conclude by alleging that they have a just and honest defense to make to the plaintiff's action, which they are advised by their counsel can be made before the jury alone, and that if a new trial is refused they are utterly remediless. In no case ought a new trial to be granted for the absence of witnesses, unless the facts expected to be proven by them are disclosed, that the Court may judge of the materiality of their testimony. However satisfactory therefore the reasons alleged by the defendants for the absence of themselves and witnesses may be, the case made out by them does not afford ground for granting a new trial. It was not sufficient to allege that their defense was just and honest, they ought to have stated the nature of their defense, that the Court might have been enabled to determine whether it was just or otherwise, and not having done so, the Court acted correctly in refusing a new trial. The objection taken to the judgment against the appearance bail is well founded. Bail is given for the benefit of the plaintiff, and it is a rule that any one may renounce a right introduced for his own benefit. No objection being made on the part of the plaintiff, to the defendants' appearing without special bail, he must be considered as having waived his right to insist upon special bail. The final judgment given against the appearance bail after the defendants were permitted, without special bail, to appear and plead, is therefore erroneous. Wherefore it is considered by the Court, that the judgment of the Circuit Court be reversed, and that the cause be remanded to said Court, who are hereby directed to enter judgment against the defendants only. Ky.App. 1810. Picket v. Richet 2 Bibb 178, 5 Ky. 178, 1810 WL 687 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
