(Cite as: 2 Bibb 4,  5 Ky. 4 (Ky.),  1810 WL 620 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Morrison's executor v. Hart. Spring Term, 1810. West Headnotes Judgment 228 k 445 228 Judgment 228X Equitable Relief 228X(A) Nature of Remedy and Grounds 228k445 k. Questions Presented in Original Action. Most Cited  Cases Defenses to an action at law, which have been adjudicated between the parties, will not constitute a basis for relief by injunction in a court of equity. Customs and Usages 113 k 8 113 Customs and Usages 113k2 Requisites and Validity 113k8 k. Legality. Most Cited Cases A usage which violates the principles of law will not be recognized in chancery. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases The chancellor will not interpose to vary the amount of damages given by a jury, in an action founded in tort, and sounding in damages. Equity 150 k 43 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k43 k. Existence of Remedy at Law and Effect in General.  Most Cited Cases If a party is improperly prevented from using evidence, his remedy is not in chancery, but by bill of exceptions and writ of error. Equity 150 k 46 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(B) Remedy at Law and Multiplicity of Suits 150k45 Adequacy of Legal Remedy 150k46 k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Although a jury may be less capable than the chancellor to decide upon the comparative merits of conflicting entries and the manner in which they ought to be served, yet they are competent to decide such question when it occurs collaterally and incidentally, so that equity has no jurisdiction to grant relief in such case on the ground of inadequacy of remedy at law. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge CLARKE absent. *1 THIS is a writ of error to a decree dismissing a bill in chancery, exhibited by the testator of the plaintiff to be relieved against a judgment at law in favor of the defendant, Hart, for two hundred and thirty pounds and costs. The question which first attracts the attention of the Court, is whether the circumstances of this case warrant the interposition of a Court of Equity. What particular shape the action at law assumed, cannot be ascertained with precision from the record in this case. It is, however, to be inferred, that the basis of the action was a wrongful withdrawal of an entry of a thousand acres of land from the surveyor's books, and the assignment of the warrant by Morrison to himself; and that the defense set up consisted of a general traverse or denial of the injury complained of. The grounds for relief which are taken by the bill are: 1. That the entry was withdrawn, and the assignment of the warrant made by Hart's agent; who, though possessing no regular written authority, yet being intrusted verbally by Hart with the transaction of his land business, was, by the prevailing custom of the country, authorized to effect the withdrawal and assignment complained of; and 2. That if the entry had remained, Hart would have saved but a small part of the land, being covered by prior or better entries, and the jury ought therefore to have apportioned the damages to the value of the land that would have been saved; instead of which, they have given the full amount of the value of the whole thousand acres. Where matter of defense is purely legal, and the party neglects to avail himself of it at law, it would be contrary to the soundest maxims of policy to permit him afterward to take advantage of it in equity. But if the defense be of such a nature that the party may avail himself of it either at law or in chancery, though he should fail to make it at law, he might nevertheless, resort to a Court of Equity, with the same propriety as a plaintiff, seeking a remedy for an injury of which a Court of Law and a Court of Equity have concurrent jurisdiction, may elect to which tribunal he will resort for relief. But, as in the latter case, when the election is once made, and a trial had in either of those Courts, the party will be precluded forever from resorting to the other; so, by a parity of reason, in the former, the matter of defense being once decided upon in the one Court, can never be retried in the other. Where the defense is purely legal, and the party neglects to defend himself at law, equity will not relieve.--Acc. vol. i, Cowan v. Price, 173--Lemon v. Cherry, 252--Roots v. Brown, 354. If the defense be such that a Court of Law and a Court of Equity have concurrent jurisdiction, and the party fails to defend at law, he may nevertheless resort to a Court of Equity; but if he makes defense at law and fails, equity will not retry the matter. The rules of evidence and the rules of decision, are the same in Courts of Law and in Courts of Equity.--Vide Marshal v. Craig, vol. i, 394. *2 If the grounds assumed for relief in this case be tested by these principles, they will be found to be untenable. So far as respects the authority of Hart's agent to withdraw the entry and make the assignment complained of, the question seems regularly to have been involved in the issue tried at law; nor is there a suggestion in the bill, or a surmise in the evidence, from which it can be inferred that this point was not relied upon at the trial. But it was urged in argument, by the counsel for the plaintiff, that the custom of the country which authorized the transaction with respect to the withdrawal and assignment without a legal power for that purpose, though unavailing at law, would be entitled to great weight in a Court of Equity. Without deciding upon the existence or validity of such a custom, it may be remarked, that no usage or custom which is disregarded in a Court of Law, can be respected as a rule of action in a Court of Chancery. Owing to the different modes of proceeding in the two Courts, a Court of Equity is enabled sometimes to reach the justice of a cause, which is unattainable at law, but the rules of evidence and the rules of decision are the same in both Courts. Both, as Sir William Blackstone observes, must adopt the best, or they must cease to be Courts of Justice. The quantum of damages in actions founding in damages is peculiarly and exclusively within the province of a jury. A Court of Equity will not overhaul a trial at law for withdrawing an entry and assigning the warrant fraudulently, upon the suggestion that the jury gave damages for the total number of acres, whereas, if the entry had not been withdrawn, a great part of the land would have been lost by prior claims. That the party was prevented at law from giving evidence to show that a great part of the land would have been lost, is no ground for relief; his remedy was by bill of exceptions. A fact not alleged cannot, although proved, constitute the basis of a decree or judgment: but must be disregarded--Accord. vol. i, Cowan v. Price, 175-- Morehead v. Pramer & Smiley, 316--M'Kinney v. M'Connel, 242, etc. As to the second ground taken by the bill for relief, little need be said. The quantum of damages in an action founded in tort and sounding in damages, is so peculiarly and exclusively the province of a jury, that it would be radically subversive of that inestimable mode of trial, if the chancellor were to interpose because he might think either too small or too great damages had been given. Nor would the propriety of a resort to a Court of Equity follow, though it were conceded that the quantity of land which would have been saved by the entry was the only proper criterion for the estimate of damages. A jury may be less capable than a chancellor to decide upon the comparative merits of conflicting entries, and the manner in which they ought to be surveyed; but their legal competency to decide, when the question collaterally and incidentally occurs, cannot be doubted. *3 If the party had been, as is suggested in this case, improperly prevented from using evidence to this point, his remedy was not in chancery, but by bill of exceptions and writ of error. But were the Court disposed to reinvestigate this part of the subject, the evidence furnished in this case would not enable them to decide how much or how little of the land covered by the withdrawn entry would have been saved, there being no proof of the existence or notoriety of the objects called for by the conflicting entries. With respect to the weight of the evidence discovered by Morrison subsequent to the second trial at law, we conceive it unnecessary to decide, since he has made in his bill no allegation of such subsequent discovery. For a fact not alleged can no more in a Court of Equity than in a Court of Law constitute a basis upon which an adjudication may be founded; it being equally true that the chancellor, as well as the judge, must decide according to the allegations and the proofs. Upon the whole, we see in this case no reason for a resort to a Court of Equity.--Decree affirmed. Ky.App. 1810. Morrison's Ex'r v. Hart 2 Bibb 4, 5 Ky. 4, 1810 WL 620 (Ky.), 4 Am.Dec. 663 END OF DOCUMENT
