(Cite as: 2 Bibb 431,  5 Ky. 431 (Ky.),  1811 WL 839 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Barret v. Chitwood. Fall Term, 1811. *1 On an inquisition of forcible entry?? and detainer. West Headnotes Forcible Entry and Detainer 179 k 21(3) 179 Forcible Entry and Detainer 179I Civil Liability 179k21 Inquisition or Other Summary Proceeding, and Review Thereof 179k21(3) k. Waiver of Defects. Most Cited  Cases Where a traverse takes issue on the truth of the inquisition, it is a waiver of objections to its form. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge WALLACE absent. BARRET sued out from a justice of the peace a warrant for a forcible entry and detainer against Chitwood, and the jury by their inquest having found Chitwood guilty of the forcible entry and detainer, he traversed the inquest and brought the case before the Circuit Court. Chitwood then moved the Court to quash the proceedings before the justices of the peace, for alleged defects in the inquest, and the Court sustained the motion and gave judgment accordingly for Chitwood; to which Barret prosecutes this writ of error. We can perceive no defect in the inquest for which the proceedings ought to have been quashed; it is substantially correct, and objections to more points of form ought not to be regarded. The act of assembly under which the proceeding was had having prescribed no particular form for the inquest, it would seem sufficient for the jury, in order to make their inquest good to express it in intelligible language. Where a limited jurisdiction of this sort is given by an act of assembly, to be exercised in pais, the correct rule appears to be, that as to the extent of the jurisdiction the act should be construed strictly, but with respect to the mode of proceeding a liberality of construction ought to be indulged. This rule is not only correct upon general principles, but is obviously congenial with the whole tenor and manifest spirit of the act under which this proceeding was had; for that act in no instance in which it has given the form of the process, has required a literal compliance with it; the substance is all that it demands. But had the inquest in this case been objectionable in point of form, it would be too late for the party, after traversing it, to avail himself of its defects. The traverse takes issue upon the truth of the inquest, and is a virtual waiver of objections to its form. To permit a party, after taking issue upon the merits of a case, to take advantage of a technical objection to form, would be reversing the order of pleading usual in other cases, and though such a course might promote the purposes of chicanery and delay, it would certainly not be conducive to the ends of justice. We think, therefore, the Circuit Court erred in quashing the proceedings before the justice, etc. Ky.App. 1811. Barret v. Chitwood 2 Bibb 431, 5 Ky. 431, 1811 WL 839 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
