(Cite as: 2 Bibb 444,  5 Ky. 444 (Ky.),  1811 WL 845 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Cave v. Trabue. Fall Term, 1811. *1 A bill in chancery may be brought to have a discovery touching a personal contract; and thereupon the Court may decree relief upon the discovery made, or bill pro confesso. Upon a bill touching a mere transitory matter, where there is but a single defendant, the Court of one circuit cannot issue a subpena in chancery to another circuit against the defendant. That the contract was made in one circuit cannot give that Court jurisdiction to issue a subpena against the defendant in another circuit. West Headnotes Courts 106 k 21 106 Courts 106I Nature, Extent, and Exercise of Jurisdiction in General 106I(A) In General 106k21 k. Mode of acquiring or exercising jurisdiction in  general. Most Cited Cases The circuit court of one county acquires no jurisdiction in a transitory action in chancery, where the subpoena issued, requiring defendant to answer, is served on defendant in another county. Equity 150 k 4 150 Equity 150I Jurisdiction, Principles, and Maxims 150I(A) Nature, Grounds, Subjects, and Extent of Jurisdiction in General 150k4 k. Accident. Most Cited Cases In cases of accident chancery is competent to afford relief. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge CLARKE absent. THIS was a bill in chancery, filed by Trabue against Cave in the Circuit Court for Adair county. The complainant alleges that on an exchange of silver for bank bills, the defendant received of him $102 in silver, for which he was to have given a bank bill of $100, but which in the hurry and confusion of the transaction was omitted to be paid, and prays for a discovery, and a decree for the delivery of a $100 bill or the re-payment of the amount of the silver he paid to the defendant. The subpena to answer the bill was directed to the sheriff of Boone county, and was executed and returned by him. At a term subsequent thereto, the defendant having failed to appear and answer the bill, it was taken for confessed, and the defendant was decreed by the Court to pay the complainant $102, with interest; to which decree Cave, the defendant, has prosecuted this writ of error. There are two points made by the assignment of error, which seem proper to be noticed: 1. Whether the case made out by the complainant, entitled him to the relief of a Court of Equity? 2. Whether the Circuit Court of Adair county had jurisdiction of the case? The complainant had undoubtedly a right to resort to a Court of Equity for the discovery he sought, and when the discovery was obtained, or the bill taken for confessed, although a discovery does not in all cases draw with it the right to relief, the Court might, we think, in a case of this kind, decree the relief asked for: the objection therefore to the bill for the want of equity, does not seem to be sustainable. The second point is however entitled to more weight. The law establishing Circuit Courts, gives them jurisdiction of all causes, matters and things, at common law, and in chancery within their respective circuits. The jurisdiction of a Circuit Court is therefore limited to the extent of the circuit, as well in suits in chancery as in suits at common law. *2 Actions are either local or transitory in their nature. Where the action is local, the jurisdiction attaches to that Court in whose circuit the cause of action arises; but where it is transitory, the jurisdiction belongs to the Court of the circuit in which the defendant may be, the cause of action in such case following him wherever he may go. That the action in the present case is of the latter description cannot be questioned; a debt or duty merely personal can have no locality; for it is an established maxim, that debitum et contractus sunt nullius loci. The Adair Court therefore, unless the defendant had been in that circuit, could have no jurisdiction of the cause, nor can the circumstance that this was a suit in chancery affect the case, since the extent of the jurisdiction of the Court is the same, both with respect to suits in chancery and suits at law. The Circuit Court is indeed authorized to direct a subpena in chancery to the sheriff of any county in the State. This provision however was not intended, nor can it be fairly construed to extend the jurisdiction of the Court to causes beyond the limits of the circuit. Its obvious intention was to enable the Court to enforce the remedy and to complete justice in causes within its jurisdiction, which in many cases without such a power could not be done. Thus, for example, where there are several persons residing in different counties, who are necessary to be made defendants, unless the Courts could send their process beyond the limits of their respective circuits, no Court could afford an adequate remedy, or do complete justice. The decree must be reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions that the bill be dismissed with costs. Ky.App. 1811. Cave v. Trabue 2 Bibb 444, 5 Ky. 444, 1811 WL 845 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
