(Cite as: 2 Bibb 243,  5 Ky. 243 (Ky.),  1810 WL 718 (Ky.)) Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Mahony v. Holland. Fall Term, 1810. *1 Judgment and execution for costs of continuances are irregular. An order to be enforced by attachment, is the regular mode to compel the party obtaining the continuance to pay the costs. West Headnotes Costs 102 k 70 102 Costs 102I Nature, Grounds, and Extent of Right in General 102k70 k. Time of Vesting of Right. Most Cited Cases A judgment for the costs of a continuance granted pending suit is improper. Costs 102 k 281 102 Costs 102XIII Remedies for Collection 102k281 k. Attachment of the Person. Most Cited Cases An order, to be enforced by attachment, is the regular mode to compel the party obtaining a continuance to pay the costs. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. Judge LOGAN absent. THE practice of giving a judgment for the costs of a continuance granted pending the suit, is incorrect: that practice (though prevalent in this country) is unwarranted by any adjudication, and we apprehend, if established, would lead to mischievous consequences. It would involve the absurdity of having as many final judgments in every cause as there were continuances granted at the costs of either party, to each of which judgments a writ of error might be prosecuted to this Court. It would greatly enhance the expenses of the litigants, by allowing the clerks to charge for all the forms of entering a judgment, taking costs, issuing execution, etc., instead of a fee for entering the order for costs, which he would alone be entitled to if the regular practice were pursued. It would subject the real as well as the personal estate of the party, to the payment of the costs by execution in the first instance, and when the continuance was produced by the unavoidable absence of the party from sickness or otherwise, his property might be sacrificed without his knowledge; whereas an order FN(a) could act upon his person in the first instance, and operate as a notice to him of his liability. FN(a). Vide Singleton v. Carr, vol. i, 555 We are, therefore, of opinion, that the judgment for the costs of the continuance granted pending the suit was improper; but this impropriety does not affect the principle judgment to which the writ of error has been prosecuted, and the former opinion and judgment of this Court with respect to it are to stand unaltered and affirmed. Ky.App. 1810. Mahony v. Holland 2 Bibb 243, 5 Ky. 243, 1810 WL 718 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
