(Cite as: 4 Bibb 346,  7 Ky. 346 (Ky.),  1816 WL 762 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Baker v. Baker and Cook. May 31, 1816. *1 In an action of debt by two executors on a note given to them, plea that the defendant was appointed an executor and qualified, will not abate the suit. Plea that the testator devised to him a tract of land, and that the plaintiffs represented to him that the land was held under the title of the deceased, and that he had a right thereto, the defendant confiding in the representions of the plaintiffs in part consideration thereof executed the note, when in fact the deceased had in his lifetime no valid title to the land in law or equity, and so that the consideration had wholly failed, is not a bar, because there is no allegation that the plaintiffs warranted the title, nor that they knew the title not to be good. West Headnotes Executors and Administrators 162 k 443(1) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k443 In General 162k443(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases Abatement and Revival 2 k 22 2 Abatement and Revival 2III Defects and Objections as to Parties and Proceedings 2k22 k. Disability or Incapacity to Sue. Most Cited Cases In an action of debt by two executors on a note given to them as executors, a plea that the defendant was appointed an executor, and qualified, will not abate the suit. Executors and Administrators 162 k 443(3) 162 Executors and Administrators 162X Actions 162k442 Pleading 162k443 In General 162k443(3) k. Allegation or Denial of Title or Authority.  Most Cited Cases In a suit by executors on a note given to them, a plea that the consideration was a sale of the testator's title to land, to which the plaintiffs represented that the testator had a right, when in fact the testator, in his lifetime, had no valid title thereto in law or equity, but without an allegation that the plaintiffs warranted the title, or that they knew the title not to be good, was held to be no bar to the action. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. THIS action was brought upon a note given by James Baker to John Baker and William Cook, executors of Martin Baker, deceased. The defendant pleaded in abatement of the action, that he was appointed by the last will of Martin Baker, deceased, an executor with the plaintiffs, and that he, together with them, had qualified as an executor. To this plea the plaintiffs demurred, and on the demurrer judgment was given that the defendant should answer over. He then filed a plea in bar, in substance alleging that Martin Baker, deceased, by his last will devised to him a tract of land, and that the plaintiffs represented to him that the said tract of land was held under the title of Martin Baker, deceased, and that he had right thereto; and that the said defendant, confiding in the representations of said plaintiffs, in part consideration thereof executed the note, when in fact the said Martin Baker. deceased, had in his lifetime no valid title to said land in law or equity; so that the consideration of said note had wholly failed. *2 To this plea the plaintiffs also demurred, and the demurrer being sustained, final judgment was given for them. The defendant afterward made sundry motions in succession to set aside the judgment, and permit him to file other pleas, which he tendered in lieu of the one which had been adjudged insufficient; but the Court overruled his motions, and he has appealed to this Court. There can be no doubt that the demurrer to the first plea was correctly sustained. Though the plaintiffs are styled executors, in the note upon which the action is founded, yet it is plain that can only operate as a descriptio personarum; for as the note was given to them, and not to their testator, they could only maintain the action in their right, and not in that of their testator; and consequently a plea that there was another executor, not joined with them in the action, could not abate the suit. That the second plea was insufficient to bar the plaintiffs of their action, we apprehend, is equally clear. There is no allegation in the plea that the plaintiffs warranted the title. We cannot, therefore, infer that they were bound by their contract to respond in case of a defect in the title; and although it is alleged that they represented the testator's right to be good, yet it is not averred that they knew it to be otherwise, and without such knowledge they could not be made responsible on the score of fraud. With respect to the motions made to set aside the judgment and file other pleas, it is sufficient to remark, that in the attitude in which the cause stood, it was not a matter of course and of right to set aside the judgment and file those pleas; and in this case there is no cause shown why it should have been done. We cannot, therefore, say that the Court erred in overruling those motions. Judgment affirmed, with costs and damages. Ky.App. 1816. Baker v. Baker 4 Bibb 346, 7 Ky. 346, 1816 WL 762 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
