(Cite as: 1 Bibb 618,  4 Ky. 618 (Ky.),  1809 WL 838 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Metcalf v. Standeford. Dec. 21, 1809. *1 Want of profert may be taken advantage of on general demurrer. That the deed is lost does not dispense with the necessity of declaring with a profert. The date of the deed is material, and must be set forth in pleading. If deed bears no date, or an impossible date, the day of delivery must be pleaded. West Headnotes Lost Instruments 246 k 22 246 Lost Instruments 246k13 Actions on Lost Instruments 246k22 k. Pleading. Most Cited Cases Pleading 302 k 305 302 Pleading 302IX Profert or Oyer 302k305 k. Profert. Most Cited Cases That a deed sued on is lost does not dispense with the necessity of declaring with a profert. Pleading 302 k 32 302 Pleading 302I Form and Allegations in General 302k32 k. Pleading Written Instruments. Most Cited Cases The date of the deed declared on is material, and should be set forth. Pleading 302 k 193(9) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k193 Grounds for Demurrer to Declaration, Complaint, Petition, or Statement 302k193(9) k. Failure to Attach or File Written Instruments  or Exhibits and Questions Relating Thereto. Most Cited Cases Demurrer is the proper remedy for a want of profert where it should be made. Pleading 302 k 205(2) 302 Pleading 302V Demurrer or Exception 302k205 General Demurrer 302k205(2) k. Objections Reached in General. Most Cited  Cases Where a declaration in debt fails to make profert of the instrument sued on, advantage may be taken of the defect by general demurrer. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. STANDEFORD, who was plaintiff in the action below, declared against Metcalf, in debt, upon a single bill, signed and sealed by Metcalf, and payable within twelve months from the date; but omitted to state the day of the date or of the delivery of said bill, and failed to make profert thereof to the Court alleging that by accident he had lost it out of his hands and possession. An office judgment taken at the rules, was set aside in Court, on the motion of Metcalf, who prayed oyer of the writing declared on; which not being given to him. he thereupon demurred to the declaration, assigning for causes of demurrer: 1. That the writing declared on is not sufficiently set out and described; 2. That the date of said writing and the time of executing the same are omitted. The plaintiff joined in the demurrer, which was overruled by the Court and judgment rendered for him; to which Metcalf prosecuted this writ of error. *2 The errors assigned, which we deem material to be noticed, embrace the following propositions: 1. That the declaration is insufficient, because there is no profert made of the writing obligatory therein mentioned, which, by the principles of the common law, as adopted by Virginia and this State, is matter of substance, and indispensable. 2. That by the common law no action can be maintained on a lost bond. 3. That the declaration is defective in not setting out the day of the date or of the delivery of the writing declared on. As to the first proposition, it seems to be the ancient and well established rule of the common law, that a person claiming benefit under a deed, must in pleading make profert of it in Court: and the reasons of the rule are, that the Court may see that the words are sufficient in law; that the deed be not varied or interlined in material parts, and whether it be absolute, conditional, or revocable. We do not feel disposed to incur the censure of a vain ostentation of learning in citing the numerous authorities which recognize this rule. It is coeval with the science of written pleadings, and its recognition is to be found in every book which treats of the subject of pleas and pleading. To the general rule there are, indeed, some exceptions. Such is the case when the deed has been pleaded in another Court, where it remains, and may be resorted to, or where it is in the possession of the adverse party. So where it is but collateral and necessary ex provisione hominis and not ex instituti me legis; or where the thing lies in livery, and not in grant. But it is confidently believed that there is no elementary treatise or adjudged case in England prior to 1776 in which the loss of the deed has been held to be an exception to the general rule. English adjudications made since that period are prohibited by statute from being used as authority in the Courts of this country. But although independent of such statutory proscription, cases adjudged in England subsequent to 1776, might have been received as evidence of the common law, yet they could not have possessed any direct binding authority, and every innovation upon its rules by those adjudications ought, and would have been utterly disregarded by this Court. It was the common law as it existed at the time of its adoption by the State of Virginia, and not what it may have become by subsequent modifications, that has the force of law in this country. On no principle, therefore, can the decisions of the Courts of England, made subsequent to the adoption of the common law in 1776, have any effect upon the question now before the Court. No authority, then existing in support of the position that the loss or destruction of the deed dispenses with the necessity of a profert, the argument would thence be strong against the admission of its correctness, if even no direct and positive authority could be found to show that it was incorrect. But Layfield's case,  10 Co. 92, furnishes an authority in point. It is there held, that though where in great and notorious, extremities, as by casualty of fire, a man's evidences are all burnt, he may be permitted, on the "general issue, to prove the deed to the jury by witnesses, although he shall not produce the deed itself; yet even in such case, he, in pleading, ought to show forth the deed to the Court, otherwise his plea will be insufficient, and judgment shall be given against him: for, adds the book, the law will rather suffer a mischief in a private case, than an inconvenience which, by the breaking of the rule of law, would be brought upon the public." *3 The necessity of a profert in an action at law, is also strongly evinced by the constant and invariable practice, which, until very modern time, prevailed in England, of resorting to a Court of Chancery for relief when the deed, under which the party claimed, was lost or destroyed. We will not dilate upon the pernicious tendency of a contrary doctrine. It is obvious, that if it should once be established that an allegation that the party had lost the deed out of his possession would dispense with the necessity of a profert, a conditional or revocable deed would never be produced by a party who was base enough to wish to convert it into an absolute or irrevocable one. That a want of profert is a substantial defect, and may be taken advantage of upon a general demurrer, appears from Leyfield's case, before cited,  10 Co. 94-5. As to the second proposition, it is evident from what has already been said, that where the deed has been lost and cannot be profferred in pleading, unless the defendant fails to demur, the plaintiff cannot have his remedy at law. But whether, where there is no demurrer for want of profert, and there is judgment for the plaintiff in an action upon a lost deed, that judgment would be erroneous, is a question which is not material to be decided in this case; and as it will probably occur in a cause now depending in this Court, in which it may be more important, we are not disposed to prejudge it. The third and last proposition is, that the declaration is defective in not setting out the day of the date or of the delivery of the writing declared on. That the day of the date or of the delivery of the writing declared on, is material, appears from 2 Saund. p. 5, b, Williams' note 3, and the cases there cited FN(a). If the deed bears no date, or an impossible date, then the party who pleads it must show the day of its delivery--Shepherd's Touchstone 55. The declaration is therefore clearly defective, and the judgment for the plaintiff in the Court below erroneous. FN(a). 1 Sal. 222. Webley v. Palmer--Same. 223, Howard v. Jenkinson, 1 Ld. Raym. 121, Serle v. Darford, 2 Ld. Raym. 1015, 1 Str. 21, Cole v. Hawkins, 2 Stran 806, Matthews v. Spicer. Judgment reversed. NOTE.--BIBB, Chief Justice, resigned at the end of this term. Ky.App. 1809. Metcalf v. Standeford 1 Bibb 618, 4 Ky. 618, 1809 WL 838 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
