(Cite as: 1 Bibb 62,  4 Ky. 62 (Ky.),  1809 WL 691 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Nourse's heirs v. Turnham. 1809. *1 Occupying Claimant. After judgment in ejectment, defendant had judgment for value of his improvem'ts; on appeal, decided defendant was not entitled to value of his improvements, having settled on the land after co-defendant, under whom he claims, had entered a caveat against the claim of the plaintiff in ejectment, and had dismissed it. See accord. Johnson v. Doan, October, 1809. A caveat by either party was a notice within the meaning of the statute, and to those claiming under them. The limitation in that act, does not apply to notices by suits in law or equity.--See accordingly, Johnson v. Doan, post. West Headnotes Ejectment 142 k 139 142 Ejectment 142V Damages, Mesne Profits, Improvements, and Taxes 142k139 k. Rights of Parties as to Improvements in General. Most Cited Cases Where, after judgment against two defendants in ejectment, one of them claimed the value of improvements, and it appeared that he had entered after his co-defendant, under whom he claimed, had entered a caveat against the claim of the plaintiff, and had dismissed the caveat, it was held that the defendant could not recover for improvements. Opinion of the Court by Judge BOYLE. THE plaintiffs in this case brought their suit of trespass and ejectment in the Court below against the defendant, and obtained judgment of eviction, for the land in controversy. At the time of rendering the judgment, the Court, under the authority of the act of assembly concerning occupying claimants of land, on motion of the defendant, appointed commissioners, with directions to go upon the land in controversy, and estimate the improvements, etc., and report to the Court. At a subsequent term, the commissioners having made their report, the Court gave judgment for the defendant against the plaintiffs, for the amount of the value of the improvements made prior to the date of the declaration in ejectment, after deducting therefrom, the rents which had accrued, and also for his costs expended about his said motion. To reverse this judgment, the plaintiffs have brought this writ of error, and have assigned the following errors, to-wit: "1. The inferior Court erred in directing commissioners to be appointed, this case not being within the law concerning the occupying claimants of land. 2. The Court erred in confirming the report." These two errors seem to lead to the general inquiry, whether under the authority of the act of assembly, before alluded to, the defendant is entitled to demand from the plaintiffs a compensation for the value of the improvements made on the land in controversy. By the second proviso, in the eighth section of the act, it is declared, that in no case, shall the proprietor of the better title, be obliged to pay to the occupying claimant, for improvements made after notice, more than what is equal to the rents and profits. It becomes then material to ascertain when the defendant received notice of the claim of the plaintiffs, and at what period his improvements were made, for the amount of which he has obtained judgment in the inferior Court. *2 It was agreed by the parties, as appears from the record filed herein, that Charles Barbour, a co-defendant in the inferior Court, and under whose title the defendant claimed, on the 17th day of July, 1798, entered a caveat against the claim of the plaintiffs, in the Court of quarter session for Washington county; which caveat, at the next August term of said Court, was dismissed: and that the defendant settled on the land in controversy, on the 24th of December, 1798, since which time, the improvements for which he claims compensation, have been made. By the enacting clause of the eighth section of the above mentioned act of the general assembly, a suit either in law or equity, brought by one or the other of the parties, is declared to be a notice within the meaning of the act. It seems to the Court, that a caveat is a suit within the letter of the law, and obvious intention of the Legislature, and that whatever may have been the cause or time of dismission of the caveat, brought by Charles Barbour, against the plaintiffs, it should operate as a notice to him, and all those claiming under him, without being subject to the limitation prescribed by the law FNa1 as to notices given otherwise than by suit. FNa1. NOTE.-- By the act of 1797, the notices of adversary claims are defined; suits in law or equity, or delivering an attested copy of the entry, survey or patent--Provided, that the notice given by delivery of an attested copy, as aforesaid, shall be void, unless suit is brought within one year thereafter. Judgment reversed. Ky.App. 1809. Nourse's Heirs v. Turnham 1 Bibb 62, 4 Ky. 62, 1809 WL 691 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
