(Cite as: 4 Litt. 119,  14 Ky. 119 (Ky.),  1823 WL 1231 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Trustees of Falmouth v. Horter. Oct. 13, 1823. *1 FROM THE PENDLETON CIRCUIT COURT, THE HON. JOHN TRIMBLE SOLE JUDGE. West Headnotes Municipal Corporations 268 k 221 268 Municipal Corporations 268VI Property 268k221 k. Capacity to Acquire and Hold Property in General. Most Cited Cases Where the legal title to land is, by act of assembly, vested in the trustees of a town, without words of succession, their successors, whether elected or appointed by the county court, do not take the legal title. WICKLIFFE and BRECKINRIDGE for the Trustees; no attorney for Horter. OPINION OF THE COURT, BY CH J. BOYLE. This was an action of ejectment brought by the trustees of the town of Falmouth against Horter, to recover the possession of a lot. Where the legal title to land is, by act of assembly, vested in the trustees of a town, without words of succession, their successors, whether elected or appointed by the county court, do not take the legal title. On the trial the plaintiffs read in evidence a copy of an original survey for one thousand acres of land, at the junction of the main and south forks of Licking, and proved that it included one hundred acres, as originally laid off for the town of Falmouth, at the junction of the two streams; and that the place in controversy, is a lot in the said town, and occupied by the defendant. They then offered to read a copy from the Register's office of a paper purporting to be a grant from the Commonwealth to John Waller, John Cook and Alvin Montjoy, assignee of William M'Daniel, on the above mentioned original survey; but the court rejected it as evidence, on the ground that the signature of the governor was not affixed to it. The plaintiffs then read the act of assembly of 1793, establishing the town of Falmouth, the general act of 1796, establishing towns, so far as relates to the mode of appointing trustees and their powers, an act of 1797 prescribing the mode of appointing trustees in towns established by special acts of assembly, an act of 1812 relating specially to the town of Falmouth, the order of the board of trustees appointing a surveyor under said act, and the report and proceedings of said surveyor, together with the orders made on said report, both by the trustees and county court. They also read the records of the trustees, showing the election of themselves, and the appointment of a clerk by a former board of trustees, and the record of the county court showing the appointment of trustees at two different times by the county court. On this evidence, the circuit court, at the instance of the defendant, instructed the jury that the acts of assembly, orders of the board of trustees and appointments of the county court, did not invest the plaintiffs with such legal title as would enable them to recover in this action. To this instruction the plaintiffs excepted, and a verdict and judgment having been rendered against them, they have brought the case to this court by writ of error. *2 The only question the case presents, is whether the plaintiffs showed themselves vested with the legal title? For without the legal title, they could not maintain the action, and the instructions given by the circuit court to the jury, must be deemed correct. The plaintiffs appear to have been elected trustees of the town of Falmouth by the inhabitants thereof, in August, 1816; and they are, no doubt, in virtue of the various provisions of the several acts of assembly referred to in the bill of exceptions, clothed, in the character of trustees, with the authority to sell and convey lots, and the power to regulate the police of the town. They may, however, have such power and authority without being vested with the legal title; for the latter is not an inseparable incident of the former. Whether they have the legal title, depends upon the construction of the several acts of assembly in relation to this subject. The act of 1793, establishing the town of Falmouth, vests the title of the one hundred acres directed to be laid off for the town, in certain individuals by name, as trustees; but it contains no provision vesting the title in their successors, and neither of the plaintiffs are amongst those named in the act as trustees. It is evident, therefore, that they can not under this act, derive any title to themselves. If the trustees of a town, were, in the techinal sense of the word, a corporation, words of succession would not, perhaps, under the statutory provisions of this country, be necessary to transmit the legal title from one set of trustees to another who succeed them. But they are not a corporation; for, to a corporation, a common name by which they may sue and be sued and do every other legal act, is essential, and the trustees of a town have no such common name. They must sue and be sued, and do every other legal act in their individual names, respectively. They are, therefore, emphatically mere trustees, and not a corporation; and an act of assembly, vesting the title in one set of trustees, can not be construed to pass it to another, without some words indicative of an intention that the act should have that effect; and as the act of 1793 contains no such words, it can not be so construed. The act of 1796, contains a provision, making it the duty of the county courts, where any town had been theretofore established in their respective counties, and the title was not vested in trustees, or where the trustees or a majority of them, were dead or removed, to appoint trustees for such town; and, moreover, declares that "the lands appropriated by law, shall be vested in the trustees so appointed." But this provision, like the act of 1793, uses no language which can be construed to pass the title from the trustees so appointed by the county court, to those who may succeed them; and unless the plaintiffs had shown that they had been appointed by the county court, they could not be vested with the title under this act. This they have failed to do; for though they exhibited two orders of the county court made after the passage of this act, appointing trustees for the town of Falmouth, neither of the plaintiffs is amongst those appointed by either of those orders. *3 The act of 1797 and the act of 1812, referred to in the bill of exceptions, are the only other acts of assembly relied on to show title in the plaintiffs. But these clearly have no bearing upon the point. The former only provides for the mode of electing trustees of towns established by special acts of the legislature, and declares what powers they shall have, without containing any provision investing them with the title; and the latter merely provides a mode of ascertaining the boundaries of the town of Falmouth and its lots. The plaintiffs, therefore, failed to show a legal title, and of course, the instructions given by the circuit court to the jury, were correct. The judgment must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1823. Trustees of Falmouth v. Horter 4 Litt. 119, 14 Ky. 119, 1823 WL 1231 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
