(Cite as: 4 Bibb 445,  7 Ky. 445 (Ky.),  1816 WL 816 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Sentney, etc. v. Overton, etc. Nov. 21, 1816. *1 If the subscribing witnesses to an instrument are dead or beyond the power of the court, their hand writing, or that of the party may be proved. A person who conceives himself to be interested in the event of a suit, though in fact he be not so, is an incompetent witness. If the statute begins to run against the ancestor, but by his death the land descends to his heirs, who are infants, the statute does not run on, but the infants shall have the time allowed by the statute after arriving at full age, to bring their action. West Headnotes Limitation of Actions 241 k 76(2) 241 Limitation of Actions 241II Computation of Period of Limitation 241II(C) Personal Disabilities and Privileges 241k76 Disability Intervening After Accrual of Cause of  Action 241k76(2) k. Infancy. Most Cited  Cases If the statute of limitations of actions, for land, begins to run against the ancestor, but by his death the land descends to his heirs, who are infants, the statute stops running, and the infants have the time allowed by the statute, after arriving at full age, to bring their action. Witnesses 410 k 94 410 Witnesses 410II Competency 410II(B) Parties and Persons Interested in Event 410k91 Interest of Party or Other Person 410k94 k. Interest of Persons Other Than Parties in  General. Most Cited Cases The fact that a witness merely believes himself to be interested in the event of an action will render him incompetent. Evidence 157 k 375 157 Evidence 157X Documentary Evidence 157X(D) Production, Authentication, and Effect 157k369 Preliminary Evidence for Authentication 157k375 k. Handwriting. Most Cited  Cases Where, in proof of the execution of a written instrument, it appeared that two of the subscribing witnesses thereto were dead, and the third had moved into another state, evidence of other parties is admissible to prove the handwriting of the maker of the instrument and of such subscribing witnesses. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. WE are of opinion that the Court below erred in rejecting evidence of the hand-writing of the parties to an instrument produced by the appellants to prove the nature and extent of their possession, under the circumstances stated in the first bill of exception taken by them. It appears that two of the subscribing witnesses were dead, and that the third being the only one living, had removed to the State of Ohio. The absence of the witness in the State of Ohio certainly put it as much out of the power of the Court to coerce his attendance, as if he had been in the remotest part of the globe; and where the subscribing witnesses are dead or beyond the power of the Court to compel their attendance, it is a settled rule, that proof of their hand-writing, or that of the parties to the deed or other instrument, is admissible evidence.--Peak's Ev. 104-5. Nor can we suppose that the power of the Court to award a commission to take the deposition of an absent witness, ought to have the effect of changing the rule in this country: for though the Court has the power to award the commission, it has no power to coerce its execution. *2 With respect to the rejection of the witness as incompetent, upon the grounds stated in the second bill of exception taken by the appellants, we are of opinion the Court below decided correctly. The witness on his voire dire expressly stated that he conceived himself to be interested; and though the facts he disclosed upon a further examination, tended to show that his interest was rather imaginary than real, yet the bias upon his mind was the same as if his opinion had been well founded; and the whole current of English, as well as most of the American decisions, prove that a person cannot be a witness who apprehends himself to be interested, though in fact he be not so.--2 Bac. Abr. Amer. ed. 592, and the cases there cited. The third and last bill of exception taken on the part of the appellants, presents the question whether an infant to whom a right of entry descends, after the statute of limitations has begun to run against his ancestor, is within the saving of the statute, and will be allowed ten years after he comes of age to make his entry or bring his action? The Court below decided this question in the affirmative in conformity to the decision of this court in the case of  Machir, etc. v. May, etc. (7 Ky. 43.) That decision we are still of opinion is correct. The saving in our statute not only appears to us, according to its most obvious and grammatical construction, to justify the exposition then given to it; but we are utterly unable to perceive any rational principle upon which it would be susceptible of a different exposition. Judgment reversed with costs, and the cause remanded for new proceedings, etc. Ky.App. 1816. Sentney v. Overton 4 Bibb 445, 7 Ky. 445, 1816 WL 816 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
