(Cite as: 4 Bibb 57,  7 Ky. 57 (Ky.),  1815 WL 657 (Ky.)) C Court of Appeals of Kentucky. Hayden v. M'Ilvain, etc. May 25, 1815. *1 A case upon the construction of the statute of frauds and perjuries, respecting lands. The answer of one defendant cannot affect the interest of a codefendant, to whom he has sold the lands, so as to take the case out of the statute. West Headnotes Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 103(1) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185VIII Requisites and Sufficiency of Writing 185k103 Nature and Form of Memorandum in General 185k103(1) k. In General. Most Cited Cases The name of the purchaser of a town lot, written on the original plan of the town by the owner of the town, and vendor of the lot, is not such a memorandum of the sale as will satisfy the statute of frauds. Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 129(3) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185IX Operation and Effect of Statute 185k129 Part Performance in General 185k129(3) k. Agreements Relating to Real Property in General.  Most Cited Cases Part performance of a parol contract for the sale of lands will not remove it from the operation of the statute of frauds, either at law or in equity. Frauds, Statute Of 185 k 152(1) 185 Frauds, Statute Of 185X Pleading 185k151 Pleading Statute as Defense 185k152 Necessity 185k152(1) k. In General. Most Cited  Cases That the bill is taken as confessed against one defendant is no reason why the other defendant, who purchased the lands from his codefendant, cannot insist on the statute of frauds in defense of a parol sale. Evidence 157 k 230(3) 157 Evidence 157VII Admissions 157VII(C) By Grantors, Former Owners, or Privies 157k230 Grantors, Vendors, or Mortgagors of Real  Property 157k230(3) k. After Conveyance or Transfer of Title  in General. Most Cited Cases Where an owner of land mortgaged the same, a confession of such owner, after such mortgage, that one of the lots had been conveyed by him to another party, cannot be used in evidence against the mortgagee. Opinion of the Court by Chief Justice BOYLE. WILKINSON being indebted to M'Ilvain in a considerable sum, for the purpose of securing the payment thereof executed a mortgage to him of all the lots in the town of Frankfort, to which he had either a legal or equitable title, and a tract of land in its neighborhood; and Wilkinson having failed to pay according to the terms of the mortgage, M'Ilvain, upon a bill filed for that purpose, obtained a decree for the sale of such lots as Wilkinson had a title to, and under that decree was about to sell lot No. 18. To restrain the sale of that lot and obtain a conveyance thereof, Hayden filed his bill in chancery against Wilkinson and M'Ilvain, alleging that he was entitled to the lot by a contract long prior to the mortgage with Wilkinson's authorized agent, upon the terms of settling and improving the same; that Wilkinson had frequently recognized his right, and that M'Ilvain had full notice of his claim. The bill was taken for confessed against Wilkinson. M'Ilvain by his answer denied notice of Hayden's claim; put him upon the proof of his contract, and relied upon the statute against frauds and perjuries. The Court below decreed the bill to be dismissed; from which Hayden has appealed to this Court. *2 The case turns exclusively upon the question whether the statute against frauds and perjuries is an available defense or not? It is contended that it is not--1. Because as it is alleged the contract between Hayden and Wilkinson was sufficiently reduced to writing to take it out of the influence of the statute. 2. Because the contract was not for the sale, but for the gift of the lot. 3. Because the contract was in part executed by Hayden's having settled and improved the lot according to the terms of the contract. And 4. Because the bill being taken for confessed as to Wilkinson, M'Ilvain cannot avail himself of the statute. In support of the first position taken against the operation of the statute, the original law establishing the town of Frankfort is relied on as containing within itself the terms upon which the purchases of lots should be made. That law authorized certain individuals to act as trustees within a limited time, and required them to convey lots sold by them, subject to the condition of settling and improving the same by the purchasers. But it is manifest that that law can have no bearing upon the case; not only because the time had expired in which the trustees therein named were authorized to act long before the contract in question was made, and that in fact it was not made with them nor by their authority, but because the law did not prescribe the terms of purchase, but the condition upon which the purchasers should hold after they had made the purchase. Again, it is urged in support of the first position, that Wilkinson advertised in writing the terms upon which persons of certain descriptions settling and improving lots should become entitled to them. But it is evident that Hayden does not come within the terms thus offered by Wilkinson, nor does the contract set up in this case purport to be made upon those terms. It appears in fact that Wilkinson was unable upon such terms to procure the settlement of the town; and failing in that project, he was induced to authorize an agent to propose other terms, under which the contract was made by Hayden. But neither the authority given by Wilkinson to his agent, nor the contract which was made with the agent, appears to have been in writing. Finally, it is urged in support of the same position, that on No. 18, in the original plan of the town, Hayden's name is written in Wilkinson's own handwriting. But this certainly is not such a memorandum in writing of the contract as is required by the statute against frauds and perjuries. It may indeed justify a conjecture that there existed some relation between Hayden and the lot; but it cannot, without the aid of other evidence, warrant the inference that he was the purchaser, or what the terms of purchase were. The second position taken against the operation of the statute in this case, is obviously not maintainable. It is not material to decide whether a contract to give land, is within the statute or not: for the contract in this case is clearly not of that character. The settlement and improvement of the lot, more especially as the place was then a dangerous frontier, was a valuable consideration; and a contract to part with the lot for a valuable consideration, is to all intents and purposes a contract for the sale of it. Were, indeed, the contract without a valuable consideration, it is apparent as there is no relation of blood between the parties, there could be no good consideration to support it; and consequently it could not, according to the settled rules of equity, be enforced in a Court of Chancery. So that if the position could be maintained, it would not be availing to the party. *3 The third position is one which was overruled in the case of Grant v. Craigmiles, (vol. 1, 203,) and that decision has been followed in the case of Greenup v. Strong, (vol. 1, 590,) Chiles v. Woodson, (vol. 2, 71,) and Johnson's devisees v. M'Connel, (vol. 3, 1.) After such a train of decisions, either directly or indirectly affirming the same doctrine, we cannot suppose it necessary to dilate upon the reasons in favor of the correctness of the principles upon which those decisions are founded. It may, however, be remarked, that the argument in support of the contrary doctrine is fallacious and unsound. It assumes for its premises, that it is the object of the statute to guard against frauds and that it is fraudulent not to carry into effect a contract which has been in part executed; and thence concludes that to make the statute operate upon such a case would be defeating its object by rendering it the means of protecting, instead of preventing frauds. But it should be recollected that the statute has for its object the prevention of perjuries, as well as frauds; and the danger of perjury, in permitting agreements to be set up by parol evidence, is equally great, whether such agreements have been in part executed or not. Besides, it was not fraud in general, but that particular species of fraud which consists in setting up verbal agreements where none were in truth made, or in setting them up variant in their terms from those that really existed, which was intended to be guarded against by the statute, in prohibiting an action from being brought upon an unwritten agreement. To permit therefore, a verbal agreement to be enforced by suit or action, because it had been in part executed, would neither be pursuing the means the legislature have prescribed, nor attaining the objects they had in view, but would in fact be an utter disregard of both. The fourth and last position contended for on the part of Hayden, we are of opinion is also untenable. The bill being taken for confessed against Wilkinson, cannot affect the right of M'Ilvain: for the confession of Wilkinson, whether express, or implied, after he aliened the lot to M'Ilvain, cannot, according to the settled rules of law, be used as evidence against the latter. As against him, therefore, Hayden cannot maintain his suit, but by resorting to parol proof; and to permit the suit to be maintained upon such proof, would be in opposition both to the letter and spirit of the statute. The decree must be affirmed with costs. Ky.App. 1815. Hayden v. McIlvain 4 Bibb 57, 7 Ky. 57, 1815 WL 657 (Ky.) END OF DOCUMENT
